ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work, at the opening of the session I think it is necessary to reiterate the sincere closeness of the Senate of the Republic to the citizens of the areas of central Italy, today once again affected by the seismic events tragically begun in August last year. I am sure that I interpret the unanimous sentiment of this House in confirming the commitment of the institutions and, in particular, of Parliament in adopting all the necessary measures to alleviate the suffering of the people involved and to speed up the necessary reconstruction work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u7	DE POLI (AP) (Ncd-CpI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also speaking on behalf of Senators Quaestors Malan and Bottici. We have found on your desks a vade-mecum which contains some general elements relating to the behaviour to be carried out in the event of an emergency, with particular reference to the evacuation of the legislative chamber. Already several times we had sent these communications via e-mail or published on our Intranet site. Today we wanted to give it also in paper and official form in the Chamber, in anticipation of an evacuation test that we will do in the coming weeks, on a date to be defined, precisely to give everyone the possibility to have the certainty, in case of emergency, of how to exit safely from the Senate Chamber and from Palazzo Madama.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u8	Thank you, Senator De Poli. I find your communication absolutely appropriate, because I have seen several announcements of evacuation tests that would then take place on Fridays and, therefore, in the absence of senators. As well as staff, I believe it is necessary to involve and educate senators as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u9	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law No 2643. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Zeller has the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u10	Mr President, the draft constitutional law for which the statement of urgency is requested has been approved by the House of Deputies without votes against, and only with several abstentions, and aims to eliminate the discrimination currently existing against the smallest language group in our land, the Ladin one, which is not allowed to enter several institutional posts. The proposed constitutional law is intended to eliminate such discrimination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u13	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I only speak to express the Democratic Party's consent to Senator Zeller's proposal. [[Applause from Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u14	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law No 2643, made by Senator Zeller. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u15	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document XXII, No 34. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u16	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly, because I do not think there are any arguments to be answered. In fact, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for having a very rich debate yesterday, which was in the same direction. I would just like to make two very specific points in connection with two specific speeches. The first is to Mrs Stefani, to whom I would like to make it clear that the term gender violence is used for the Commission of Inquiry as it was used in Law No 119 of 2013 and in the sense that the Istanbul Convention gave it to this term. The tendency, that is, is not to change terminology every time you discipline or enter the merit of a topic. On the other hand, with regard to the intervention, which is just as welcome as all the speeches made by Mr Bencini, I would like to make it clear that there is no foreclosure, of course, in the solutions which the Commission will find, but at the moment, both in the Commission's amending phase and in this House, there is no prospect of solutions, but it is up to a Commission to ascertain and propose. It is not said that this will not be done and something else will be done, but it simply puts the Commission in a position to operate. Having said that, I thank all of you and I really believe that yesterday's debate has been fruitful and so sudden that we all wonder that many people have taken so much action. So, I really don't have anything to replicate. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u17	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u18	Mr President, the Senate House is preparing today for a vote on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, which represents a very important act for the history of this country, not only for its purposes, but above all for the debate that took place yesterday about such a proposal, a debate that has certainly been affected by the dramatic topicality. Using the words that the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, said in the message of the end of the year, recalling the 120 victims of violence in the year he abandoned us, it is a phenomenon as an unbearable phenomenon. And the unbearable word has so many meanings behind it but, above all, it highlights that it is necessary to unveil, open a veil around what is the theme on which violently and hellishly the violence of men on the bodies of women when committing a feminicide. We must start from this in order to ask ourselves to the full that we must have a culture in this country, that is not only that of prevention and depression, and to investigate in depth a phenomenon that questions the elements of coexistence, of the relationship between people and between the sexes. It is necessary - I simply say this as a starting point, because it will be the task of the Commission, with the powers delimited in its institution - to investigate what has been done since 2011 to date, what judicial practices and what attention should be paid to a phenomenon that questions the idea of the conflict between the sexes. Conflict is a conflict that involves the subjective freedom of women also in the construction of emotional feelings and relationships, and the fullness in the construction of affection; when a woman decides that her relationship must have a term, the reaction does not consist in being in dialogue and respect for the person, but is unheard of violence, the violence proper to those who think that the one she has before is a thing and not a person. I believe that the Commission's task will also be to give the cultural framework around which certain situations have arisen. However, I also have the task of responding to the Senator of the Forza Italia Group. In the coming days will be defined the possible delegation for equal opportunities also for the Gentiloni Government. At an important time when this Commission is being launched, we must not hide what good has been done in the short term. In the budget law, an additional 60 million were allocated for equal opportunities; the criteria were defined and the actions provided for in the international anti-violence plan were re-established and breathed back into the centres. We know that it is little, but the centers today are put in condition to have not only the previous year, but even the 13 million more data for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. In addition, additional 5 million have been allocated to shelter homes in the budget law and in the meantime the Department for Equal Opportunities has banned 5 million euros for schools, based on the concept that, if prevention and repression are not enough, we need to invest a lot in education to non-discrimination and respect, and that starts from the school itself. These are all initiatives that take place within the framework that has been created by putting together interinstitutional governments, the ANCI and the Regions, testifying to the fact that this Government also wants to get out of an emerging phase. Violence is now a structural condition; the heinousness and unbearableness of the phenomenon are such that the state today is being asked more seriously in addressing the issue of violence and, above all, of law enforcement policies. I really thank all the senators and the rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro, for having given the Commission that it will be established, in a very important framework of calmness and seriousness, the task of establishing within its Rules of Procedure an action that can help the whole country to take a step of civilization and greater concreteness in respect of women's freedom, but also of autonomy and respect among people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u19	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on this document and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u20	Mr President, I would just like to explain Amendment No 1.1, because those relating to the following articles also deal with the same point. We shall vote in favour of this measure for the reasons set out in the general debate yesterday by Senator Rizzotti and which will be reiterated in the explanation of vote. However, the point, which was touched on by the diligent and excellent rapporteur, Mr Lo Moro, concerns terminology, i.e. the use of the word 'genus'. In this case, in fact, we are talking about a very clear fact: we are talking about men who kill women. That's the point. It is therefore not possible to see why the word "genere" is drawn by hand, which must be recorded in the perspective of a certain theory or ideology, however we want to call it. However, it is not when they indicate our vocabulary or our law in all other cases. Men and women, in fact, are two sexes; everyone can have the theories he wants, but it has nothing to do with it. It would be as if in a measure of the sixties or seventies the social categories with lower incomes had been defined by the term "proletariat"; that is, it would have been an ideologization that has no citizenship. I leave this testimony. I already know the opinion of the rapporteur, who has also explained the use of such a term with the analogy to terminology used also in an international provision, which - in my opinion - is also spoiled by having accepted or introjected - I also use in this case a term of a few decades ago - an ideology that will pass like that of a few decades ago. For this reason it would be good to use real and non-ideological terms in the laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u21	Senator Lo Moro, will you explain your amendment to Article 6?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u22	Mr President, I do not think there is much need for this. This is a necessary change, more than appropriate: we have already entered the new year and Article 6 provides for the allocation of funds for the Commission's operating expenditure also for 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u23	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u24	THE DEAD, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 6,100, which I have just presented, while the opinion is against the remaining amendments, with the exception of Amendment No 4,100 by Mr Malan, who, inter alia, with his amending proposals in the Commission, has certainly allowed us to improve the text, even with the introduction of the concept of feminicide in a more explicit way. I propose to Mr Malan, as he has already pointed out, that the text of the amendment be reworded, which I also agreed with the Government. In particular, in Article 4, in relation to the composition of the Commission, where it is said that one representative is present for each group and, in any case, ensuring the balanced representation of genders, it should be said that, however, the balanced representation of senators and senators should be promoted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator, but in the short term I have also been informed of a dialogue you had with Mr Bruni. THE DEAD, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. Turning to another subject, in the Commission we undertook to present an agenda for the children of the victims, which I am presenting now because Senator Bruni would no longer be in a position to do so. In fact, I remember that the presenters are my colleagues Bruni and Bonfrisco. One of the Commission's objectives is to protect orphans. The agenda commits the Government to carry out investigations into the ways and means by which the institutions have intervened to protect and support the children of the victims of feminicide, assessing the effectiveness of the current legislation and its compatibility with the supranational one, carrying out a survey on the adequacy and territorial distribution of the care structures dedicated to them, as well as providing an analysis on the psychological and material consequences on the children of the victims of feminicide. This is an activity that the Government already intends to carry out, but the Commission will continue to do so, so the invitation is to accept the agenda G2.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u25	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 1 and the amendment tabled to it. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u29	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also ask the rapporteur to reconsider. Amendment 1.1 makes it clear what this is about. As we read in the text, we are discussing the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into feminicide, as well as any form of gender-based violence, which means nothing, because it has not been discussed before a different form of violence. When Amendment 1.1 refers to the sex of the victim, it is a correct specification which takes into account possible interpretations, without leaving to the judge an interpretation which, as it is written, is very generic. I believe that Senator Lo Moro, precisely because she takes account of the need for clarity of the rules, can accept this amendment which, from the point of view of legislative clarity, removes any doubt.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u30	We greet students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Isabella Morra) of Valsinni, in the province of Matera, who are attending our works and who thank you for their presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u31	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u33	I shall cancel the vote. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u34	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to add the signature to all the amendments tabled by Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u35	The Presidency takes note of this. We record the same request from Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. Having cancelled the vote, we need to re-check the support. I therefore ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u38	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, is it possible to check whether each card corresponds to a senator? I see something missing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe there's something more besides missing something. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). There's cards, but senators are missing.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u39	In order to ensure that our Secretaries do not have to go around the benches of this House, I would ask for your cooperation, ladies and gentlemen. Senator Razzi, can you help us parade the cards in your line? Senator Candiani, thank you for your help. Senator Mancuso, do you take your card in the counter under yours? The call of our Senator Secretary, who also plays her role from the benches, is correct. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2 and the amendments and the agenda tabled to it. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G2100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 4 and the amendment tabled to it with the rewording accepted by the rapporteur. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 6 and the amendment tabled to it. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 6,100 tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 6 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u42	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said yesterday, I am glad that the Committee of Inquiry is being set up. We are of course also a little out of time, unfortunately, because Senator Fedeli's first bill dates back three years, while mine was deposited about a year and a half ago. In all cases, of course, it's better late than never. The time available to the Commission is one year and would coincide with the end of the parliamentary term, even if we have a sword of Damocles on us and we do not know very well whether that term will be anticipated. In all cases, I assume that a report will be made if we go to the early elections, which will remain and will possibly be useful to continue working in the 18th legislature. Therefore, as an exponent of Italy of Values, I am glad that we can start such a path and a job that is certainly important and announcement that we will give our positive vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u45	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I do not know how we can vote against the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry, but that seems to me a tautology, partly because frankly there are reservations about the usefulness of such a Commission. It merely serves to state in substance the little work that Parliament has done on this matter. Therefore, in order to avoid being included in the categories of sexists, we shall vote in favour of the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u48	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, let us reiterate here the arguments that we have already set out in the general debate. I would like to call back a few of them, because we are actually talking a lot about the phenomenon of feminicide in the media, but perhaps sometimes little or bad is understood what the reasons are. Femicide is spoken of when you kill a woman just as a woman, but you have to understand why in some situations you reach such a level. We refer to the fact that at present serious forms of violence are perpetrated against women who are subjected to unreasonable fanatic-religious dictates. We are talking about a phenomenon that is increasing, the result of substantial immigration, which is now well known. Let us remember that 86% of Islamic women in Italy are illiterate and do not even know the alphanumeric system. We are thinking that 80% of these women do not leave the house unless accompanied. Therefore, we are faced with a reality of women living segregated at home or otherwise segregated in a cultural microcosm where they believe that that is the truth. Nor do they have the ability or the tools to rebel against the violence committed at home; violence that is not only physical but also psychological. Unfortunately, as evidenced by the cases we read in the newspapers or listen to, women and girls are killed perhaps because they do not comply or submit to the obligation of an arranged marriage. These are the women's tragedies that we must avoid and that are not avoided simply by providing for crime or by setting up committees of inquiry. The cultural landscape must be affected, because these women must be educated to defend themselves. Only when a woman is educated to defend herself and when a young girl knows what is outside her home do they have the opportunity to defend themselves. We remember - and unfortunately there are those who have had the opportunity, even professional, to know them - that there are many women who have suffered violence at home and have not been able to rebel because they did not have the courage to do so. We shall vote in favour of the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry, so that the data can be found, but above all that the reasons for such phenomena should be understood. Only knowing the reasons can we equip ourselves with tools to fight, eradicate, if ever possible, or reduce this very unpleasant phenomenon. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u51	GAMBARO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, as already announced yesterday, we will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration establishing the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide. The numbers are really alarming, but above all the percentage of crimes committed inside the home walls is alarmed. As Members of Parliament, therefore, we absolutely have a duty to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u54	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, gender-based violence - a man should say so too - is a very serious and serious problem. It is not enough for a Parliamentary Commission to solve this, because it has a cultural nature. However, a parliamentary committee can and must also carry out cultural work and contribute at least to a process of cultural maturity within the country. That is why we cannot but support the establishment of this Commission and I therefore declare the Group for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE to be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u57	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, of course, we in the Mixed Group are in favour of setting up the Committee of Inquiry and I do not repeat the reasons that, with clarity in Adamentina, Senator Lo Moro has presented today, because I fully agree with them. In a few minutes, however, I would like to make a personal contribution to the work which the twenty senators of this Assembly, appointed by the President, will have to do. The contribution is essentially as follows: I have heard in many speeches by colleagues a certain tired rhetoric, but I invite you not to consider the emergence of violence against women and the murders of women - or feminicides, as we call them - just as the reaction of a distant past hard to die, while the globalization of rights and the growth of human rights, undoubtedly constant, is advancing in the world. So unfortunately it is not. I would like to remind this House that violence against women is not recent, but there has been violence in all patriarchal societies. To a certain extent, it was a shared violence, nourished by the family and often written, accepted and disseminated by the three great religions of the Book. When has this reality changed? It changed when, in a relatively recent time, about two and a half centuries ago, the growth of the rights movement posed the issue of women in other words. There is a date and a symbol that I would like to propose: the Marianna with the bare bosom of Delacroix. Marianna tells us about the struggle of women who, during the French revolution, denounced the fact that women did not have the same access to education, that they had much lower wages and that their illegitimate daughters were rejected and pushed towards prostitution. From that moment on, the movement for rights was one with the struggle for women's rights and I would like to remind everyone that the Magna Charta of humanity, that is, the universal declaration of the rights of the person, saw the light in 1948 thanks also to the extraordinary work of a woman, Eleanor Roosevelt. But from that moment on, not so far in time (two and a half centuries ago), violence against women, this widespread attempt to take the female body hostage has also become political violence that was measured with history. In the father who corrected his daughter, in the husband who punished the unfaithful or in the brother - as happened in Paris thirty years ago - who offered to the herd of friends the sister because she had had the daring to be admired in the city center, there was not only a form of permanence of a feudal past but above all the desire to stop history, the desire to fight the woman because the woman, as a reproductive, is considered responsible for the change of social relations, which is not only resumable in economic and technological changes, but also implies cultural changes and the system of values or at least the way in which the system of values is conceived. This phenomenon has become much more violent in the last fifteen years, because we are, ladies and gentlemen, in the presence of a reactionary and medieval anti-worldization that has attacked us for fifteen years, even if we put our heads under the sand like ostriches. I say fifteen years, or maybe sixteen years, because I am referring to 11 September 2001. This anti-globalization desperately tries to stop history. You must consider extreme violence in Italy as something not too dissimilar to what happened in the Balkans, where the rape of women was a form of ethnic cleansing, used during recent wars that have engaged us in the front line too. If you look, as I hope the twenty senators appointed by the President, the motivations of the feminicide today in Italy, you will find a brutality, a trivialization of evil and a hatred of the woman considered as the responsible for a social transformation in progress, very, very strong. Now, of course, we also make mistakes: when, ironically and somewhat foolishly, we think that capitalist globalization brings with it a growth of rights, we do not understand that one thing is the symbol of Delacroix's naked breast, one thing is the female body used to sell, to introduce goods, to hit - kicking in the butt, I might say - the habits of some countries of the globe. We must be careful about this and my recommendation is that this be taken into account. We do not need the politically correct, we do not need sentences to be repeated in our schools and even higher penalties: there is a need to understand that a clash of civilizations is taking place and that for us the defense of the woman, the defense of her body, the sacredness of her body compared to male violence, is a fundamental element, a piece of a cultural and political battle of a general type. That was my contribution. Of course, as I have already said, we are in favour of setting up the Commission. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u60	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a parliamentary term which has paid extreme attention to cultural, social and gender issues, today we are adding another fundamental element for the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. After the tightening of the penalties with the decree of 2013 and the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, today we decide to set up a Commission of Inquiry on one of the most important social problems in Italy. The feminicide, as can be seen from the many studies carried out on this subject, is a structural problem that goes beyond the murders of women, but it concerns all forms of discrimination and gender violence, which are able to cancel women in their identity and freedom, not only physically, but also in the psychological dimension, in sociality, in participation in public life. The statistics are alarming: he sleeps killed by husbands, boyfriends, companions or other family members. One every three days. The black chronicle is full of epithets such as "murder passionate", "raptus", "moment of jealousy", as if to testify to the need to give a justification to something that is actually monstrous. More than 130 women were victims of violence in 2016, while in 2015 the tragic budget had stopped at 128. It is a phenomenon that is dramatically rampant, both in Italy and in the world, and that in most cases is consumed within the couple and the family, both during the emotional relationship and after the separation. Violence, in these intimate relationships, generally presents itself as a combination of physical, psychological, sexual, economic, and harassing persecutory violence, with episodes that are repeated over time and assume increasing seriousness. The harsh reality is that in this context the woman who suffers violence appears alone, often mother and wife, sometimes without economic autonomy. Little attention is paid to the family reality, preferring to refer to raptus of the murders rather than to openly speak of violent men who act consciously, who often consider the woman as their property. This creates a perverse mechanism between victim and executioner, a dysfunctional relationship. The Eures Institute of Economic and Social Research, which has dedicated an observatory to the phenomenon for years, tells of a real massacre. Mr President, I do not report all the data, which I leave to the documents, asking to be able to attach them to the report of today's sitting, because the analysis of the data can provide a valid tool to understand the phenomenon and to counter it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). It is not to be underestimated, moreover, the drama of orphans, the children who lost their mother because of the murderer's father (or companion): in the last 15 years their number has risen to 1,628. Little is said about them, the cold bureaucracy defines them as secondary victims; now there is a bill to protect them, as well as other victims of serious crimes. But what can be done to counter this terrible and growing phenomenon rooted in our society? In the face of a clear emergency - and this must be considered - we need to rethink prevention and put in place effective initiatives to help potential victims develop a risk awareness, which helps to understand when it is time to ask for help, who can read and interpret its signals. It is therefore necessary to raise awareness of territorial social services in order to grasp the fact that there is a very serious difficulty on the part of women who are now suffering violence. The law did something, but not entirely enough. On this front we are behind, both legally and culturally: we are a country that has struggled to transpose the changes of family law and cultural changes require generational passages. The contributions of yesterday in general discussion have evidenced how fundamental it is to study the soup of culture that feeds this phenomenon, how important is the education to respect others, the education to the feeling and the civic and cultural formation of each person. I would also like to stress that there is often an excess of spectacularisation, which can lead to emulation, and that communication has a great responsibility in this regard. It is right to tell the personal dimension of the victim, but we must never justify the work of the author. It is essential, therefore, to express a sense of condemnation and the feeling of the failure of those who have committed the gesture: in no case must we carry on a path of secondary victimization, telling the victim as a co-responsible figure of the action he has undergone. From a legislative point of view, ratification of the Istanbul Convention in 2013 was an important step. The Convention, approved by the Council of Europe on 7 April 2011, is the first legally binding international instrument on the protection of women's rights against all forms of violence. The aim of the Convention is to prevent acts of violence, protect victims and prosecute aggressors, as well as to recognize, once and for all, violence against women as a violation of human rights. Other important steps are the rules laid down in the last budget law: from the greatest refreshment to the children of the victim of murder committed by the spouse and by the person linked to it by an affective relationship, to the increase of the financial envelope for the next three years of the Equal Opportunities Fund in favour of the Extraordinary Action Plan against Sexual and Gender Violence, to the activities of support and enhancement of assistance to women victims of violence and their children, through the strengthening of the network of territorial services, anti-violence centres and shelter houses. Despite these actions, there is still a long way to go. The Commission of Inquiry will also be able to assist in drafting more comprehensive legislative proposals on the subject. The Senate is ready to do its part. We therefore vote in favour of the People's Area. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u63	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of the proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry into Femicide. This proposal has been scheduled in record time: presented on 26 October, the measure began its process in the Commission after a week. We know that the problem is urgent: every two and a half days a woman is killed (170 about last year). Male violence is the first cause of death for women in the European Union and the world. We believe that we must certainly carry out all the necessary in-depth studies in order to define precisely the phenomenon and the causes that lead to feminicide. I would like to point out that the first Commission has begun examining two draft laws in this area, one of which, on the initiative of my Group, concerns the introduction of the crime of feminicide as an aggravating factor for a number of crimes against the person, where they are committed to the detriment of a woman. I would like to point out that the role of the legislator is intended to improve legislation in an area; in this respect, the Commission can be useful in achieving legislation that is more targeted at combating feminicide and I hope, for example, it can monitor the application of Decree-Law 93 of 14 August 2013 against violence against women. I'll add a few more brief evaluations. Answers should be provided. I would remind you that in the last parliamentary term, motions for resolutions and drafts of laws were adopted in both branches of Parliament (in all forty, motions and drafts of laws). I also remember that the last minister of equal opportunities was Mara Carfagna: we are still without Minister of Equal Opportunities and who has had the delegations maybe we will see him at... Who has seen him?.................................................................................................................................................................................. In Mara Carfagna we owe not only the law of 2009, with more than 70,000 complaints of stalking, some of which, unfortunately, concluded with the death of the complainant, but also the agreement, which Minister Carfagna made with ministers Gelmini and Maroni, for the week of the right to safety in schools, but also of this one no longer hears talk about. On the other hand, schools hear about the theatrical spectacle - which will involve children from the age of eight up - about a transgender child. I believe that in schools we must teach respect for the human person and that perhaps violence against women is a more important problem than the small dinosaur - or what it is - than the theatrical spectacle. You don't even have any more signals from families: I remember that as a child I heard the mothers of my peers tell their children that a female doesn't even touch herself with a flower, even this I think has been forgotten. I hope that the Commission will also monitor the EUR 5 million earmarked for combating violence against women. We hope that concrete answers can come in order to stem (dewarning is an illusion) or better frame, from the point of view of the legislative response, the phenomenon of feminicide. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u66	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could reply to what Mr Di Maggio or Mr Palermo have already said, or to the many sensible things that many others have said, but I would like to ask all of us whether we really want to continue to run into the error - because that is what I must call it - made by the Undersecretary when he intervened, when he disassociated repression, prevention and education: education is the best prevention. Therefore, in the face of decades of disinvestment from the so-called training agencies, in the face of policies that systematically massacred public education, we can only experience social regression, because what we have to study, in order to combat them, are phenomena of social regression. I would like to remind you here that gender and sex have been discussed, but in this very House, a few months ago, there was a question of sexist gestures, and if we, who are now going to vote unanimously on the creation of a Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide, are going to go through similar episodes, perhaps we should all ask ourselves a few questions. But hypocrisy, as usual, reigns supreme. Well, let's promote this Commission of Inquiry. However, we try to understand that, as far as we can study, it is within the deepest mechanisms of Italian society that we nest the germ, the germ of the identification of the other as the enemy. Many sociologists have pointed out, with studies that I must not mention, that the other becomes an enemy as brutally as the country backs, from a cultural, moral, social and economic point of view. And if the country is in regression - excuse me if I use a word of gramscian memory - the so-called ruling classes some questions should ask it. I would like to conclude by urging Mrs Lo Moro to move forward; we must acknowledge that she and the then Vice-President of the Senate, now Minister of Education of the Faith, have strongly wanted this Commission of Inquiry, hoping that, from words to deeds. In this legislature, as has been mentioned, we have also approved a decree-law on feminicide; we have therefore intervened to promote repression and a sanctioning and defining framework that is acclaimed and less generic, in order to promote prevention, but the real investment must be made in culture. A certain Vittorio Arrigoni repeated: "We remain human", but in Italy of 2017 and perhaps, unfortunately, of who knows how many more years Arrigoni's good soul should be corrected: "We become human." And if the ruler pulls back the people who are governed, because he does not take responsibility for them and always continues to educate them to false myths, like the myth of the image, so even in a certain Renzian world Ladylikes have been promoted, and if we pursue the image rather than the substance, then that world must also ask questions. So let us be aware of this and let us be aware that it is not simply the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry that can silence our consciences. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u69	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, as has been pointed out in other speeches, Parliament's first act in this parliamentary term was the adoption of the Istanbul Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women. Again in this legislature, Law No 119 of 2013, which is an important first step in the implementation of this Convention, has been adopted. This Parliament has made these choices in the knowledge that the phenomenon of violence against women is very widespread in our country and is transversal to the social classes: women with a high level of education and uneducated women, women who work and those who do not work, Italian women and foreign women are victims. In recent years, awareness of the phenomenon has certainly increased, and the dimension of violence against women as domestic violence, i.e. violence exercised by the partner or the former partner, has emerged with particular emphasis. The Commission of Inquiry will focus on the last five years. Well, in the last five years examined by the Istat survey on violence against women, a survey presented during 2015, there are four and a half million women who in Italy have suffered some form of physical violence from their current or former partners. And violence is not only physical and sexual, but it is also psychological and economic, not to mention stalking, which affects one and a half million women and which is a form of violence that generates anxiety and terror in the victim, heavily affecting their lives. In the awareness of the seriousness of this framework, which I have only briefly mentioned, and which yesterday and today's speeches in this House have also highlighted, the Democratic Party strongly supports the opportunity to set up a Commission of Inquiry, which helps to understand not only the scale and causes of the phenomenon, but also because the framework of the interventions so far put in place has not proved sufficient and how sometimes it has proved ineffective. The Commission will have to understand why, even when women have sought protection and help from the law enforcement agencies, health authorities and social services, they have not always managed to avoid suffering violence or even being killed, and this also in a context in which, in the last five years, according to Istat, violence from the partner has more often been denounced (from 6.7% to 11% of cases reported to the law enforcement agencies, whose intervention women show satisfaction). Are instruments such as removal, warning, and arrest in flagrant cases of stalking properly used? Why aren't they enough? Could they be strengthened in some way? The Commission will have to answer these questions and will also have to try to understand whether the women who turn to justice obtain the protection provided for by Law No 119 of 2013. I am referring, for example, to legal aid, the possibility of witnessing in a protected way, the acceleration of trials. The Commission will have to answer these questions and, as the document that we are going to vote on says, it will also have to understand what the conditions and behaviours are recurrent in cases of feminicide, because this can not only guide preventive action, but also suggest regulatory action. The cases of feminicide that since June 2016 we remember, in the relay that about fifty senators and senators organized in the Senate, show how these very often mature in cases of separation, even if only threatened. The issue should be investigated in order to understand what are the instruments of protection that can be put in place in favour of women who want to separate from a violent companion, even intervening in the procedures of custody of children, often used as tools of blackmail, when they themselves are not exposed to the risk of violence. Also because - and this is another aspect of which the Commission is explicitly called to be concerned - the issue of violence against women follows the equally dramatic issue of assisted violence: between 2006 and 2013 the percentage of children who witnessed episodes of violence on their mother increased and this, as is well known, is the main cause of the intergenerational transmission of violence. The child witnessing violence tends to reproduce it in 22 percent of cases, and the percentage is even higher if he himself has suffered it. The present document provides for the Commission to assess the level of attention, the capacity of the institutions, central and peripheral, to carry out prevention and assistance activities. To underline the importance of this investigation, I recall that, for example, according to a study carried out by first aid doctors on themselves, reported by Dr. Maria Pia Ruggieri at a recent conference, first aid doctors realize violence only in one case in ten. Despite the extension of the phenomenon and the increase in its severity, they have never suspected a situation of domestic violence during their professional career 77 percent of general practitioners, 69 percent of first aid doctors and 55 percent of public clinic operators. Recognizing violence is a fundamental element in preventing and helping women who are affected by it and who are often afraid to even talk about it (I do not say to denounce it) and do not always know who to turn to to get help. We must therefore invest widely on this issue and not only through the training of doctors, law enforcement agencies, educators, social workers and magistrates, as the plan on violence rightly provides. It is also necessary to involve persons considered sentinels outside the public administration. Let me give you an example: in Chicago, a city in which an anonymous investigation has found that 72% of women have suffered some kind of violence within the home walls, from 1 January 2017 all hairdressers and beauticians will be obliged, under penalty of not renewing the commercial license, to take courses to learn to recognize signs of abuse and abuse and to know how to behave. The idea, which is confirmed also in our country, is that hairdressers are more easily trusted than the police and the doctor, so hairdressers can help bring out the phenomenon and direct customers where they can find help. In short, the tools for combating violence against women and preventing feminicides must be many. The phenomenon is so rooted in the culture, tradition and social organization of our country that we believe it is essential to make a further effort to combat it also by Parliament. The Commission of Inquiry which we are about to approve and which, as I said, the Democratic Party strongly supports, can certainly make an important contribution in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u72	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u73	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXII, No 34. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u74	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2542, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u75	Mr President, I would like to withdraw my two amendments, 1,200 and 4,200, not the G4100 agenda, but also to facilitate the adoption of this measure, which I naturally agree with. I had the opportunity to speak with the president of the National Association of Civil War Victims, Castronovo, who reassured me of their absolute political neutrality and their absolute understanding of being far from giving connotations and political readings part of this issue, to which they are certainly all in favour, as I reiterated yesterday during my speech in general discussion. My intention in proposing the amendment to Article 1 was to leave the mention of Article 11 of the Constitution so that there were no further attempts to summarise it. I think it would have been a better choice, however, since the text has already been adopted in the House, I withdraw the amendment to make it easier to approve the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u76	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u77	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Malan for his understanding of the spirit in which we have dealt with this draft law, that is, to see it adopted quickly. In view of the availability of Senator Malan, I am also in favour of the G4100 agenda which he has tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u78	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u79	As Amendment 1,200 has been withdrawn, we shall proceed to the vote on Article 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for votes to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means for subsequent articles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As Amendment 4,200 has been withdrawn, we shall proceed to the vote on Rule 4 and the agenda submitted to it. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G4100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u82	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to vote on today is the recognition due to all civilians in all parts of the world - not only since the Second World War - who are the main victims of wars. From the beginning of time, war is, even before a clash between powers, states, ideologies or religions, the field of continuous and repeated abuses against peoples, men, women and children without any exclusion. (17.45) (Liuzzi followed). History is full of examples. In 1915 three European powers, France, Great Britain and Russia, agreed to draw up a declaration of condemnation containing explicit references to the crimes committed by Turkey against humanity and civilization, reported by history as the Armenian genocide, giving for the first time to the jurisprudence the expression of crimes against humanity, humanity and civilizations increasingly put at risk in the world's conflicts and because of the world's conflicts. After the Second World War, with the arrival of the so-called total war a new season was opened in the issues related to human rights, together with the formation of a common international consciousness about the existence of a universal right, due and virtually applicable to all the components of each social grouping. It supported, in practice, the existence of a congenital right, common by nature to all men, regardless of the socio-cultural options of reference. Certain crimes against civilians, representing a source of instinctive reprobation in all latitudes, have therefore been considered as concorporable in a new category of cases, of which it is assumed that any State or social grouping, of any continent or ethical, religious or cultural imprint, would require the sanction. The jurisprudence immediately tried to put exemplary penalties, identifying crimes against humanity as crimes directed against civilians, as in the case of the London Agreement of 1945, by which the tribunal established in Nuremberg, among the crimes contested by the Nazi officers, listed precisely the criminal actions concerning violence and abuse against civilians, distinguishing them from war crimes. The same principle was taken up in 1946 in the Tokyo Charter, the statute of the International Military Tribunal for the Far East. The same definition was transposed, in the 1990s, into the Statute of the Tribunal for Rwanda and for the conflict that bloodied the former Yugoslavia. Tomislav Marković, Croatian art gymnast, speaking of the war in the former Yugoslavia during the 2003 World Arts Gymnastics World Cup in Anaheim, United States, told television stations that war is the work of men. Women and children can only participate as victims. In 1998, with the approval of the Rome Statute, established by the International Criminal Court, the crime of crimes against humanity was included in the list of the main crimes prosecuted by the Court, along with war crimes and the crime of aggression. Today, as unfortunately is constantly confirmed by the news coming from the various international fronts, the world continues to mourn victims both military and above all civil. The latest data show that 67 states are at war and 746 guerrilla militias, terrorist groups, separatists and anarchists involved in armed conflicts. All this always happens to the detriment of men, women and children who, on their side, can only suffer the violence that wars entail. Too many times we have heard of initiatives aimed at peace. War should be banned from humanity's vocabulary, we know, and who might be against that statement? Yet it is behind the goodness of false prophets that the interests of those who would be ready, at any time, to pass on the life of unarmed civilians, with the sole fault of being born in the wrong place. Mr President, the Conservative and Reformist Group will vote in favour of bill No 2542 because it is right that generations to come should keep the memory of the civilian victims of all wars and conflicts in the world. In the eyes of little Omran, the small citizen of Aleppo, the whole world has seen the tragedy of Syria and the Syrian people, the absurd fate of civilians, men and women, the elderly, adults and children made signs of unspeakable violence and devastating bombardments. This law will not only serve to commemorate, but will be a warning and will urge our Government to intervene internationally to stop the operations of war and terrorism in order to bring democracy back to the centre of the commitments and occupations of the States, saving first and foremost the citizens, the people, in conflicts. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u85	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, our Group will also vote strongly in favour of this bill, which provides for the establishment of the National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World, with reference to the two wars (especially the second), and to the disability and mutilation suffered by civilians. The National Association of Civil War Victims has become a public body since 1956, with the function of representing and protecting the moral and material interests of the mutilated and disabled civilians and families of the fallen for war. For its activity, this association, praised for its commitment, was awarded the gold medal to the meritorites of school, culture and art as early as 1981 and the gold medal of civil merit in 1998. It has also promoted the constitution of the Confederation of Italian Fighting Associations and, since 2001, has been a founding member of the European union of war invalids, which is based in Ljubljana. We are talking about a representation and protection of over 100,000 mutilated and disabled civilians of war, widows, orphans and other families of fallen civilians for war. The National Association of Civil War Victims operates in union with the National Association mutilated and disabled of war, which is the sister. Among other things, those who speak to you are the son of a great invalid of war of first category and therefore know perfectly what are the problems that, from the moment in which the disability or mutilation occurred, they invest both the subject offended, and also the whole family environment and all the activity and the family action, work, social and integration; and they know how many difficulties both the disabled of war, and the civilian victims have had to endure, because in fact the support of the State has not always been up to the damage and discomfort they have suffered and continue to have. Already in the last legislature I had the opportunity to present a bill, to the House of Deputies, to standardize the invalids of war and the disabled civilians, giving them legal and legislative support also of an economic nature and not only of a celebratory nature. It is right and proper that on 1 February we celebrate the National Day of Civil Victims of War and Conflicts in the World, in order to raise awareness, to make known and not to lose the memory of the damages that have caused the conflicts, in particular the last war conflict, according to the principles of Article 11 and not only of the Constitution, but also of Article 17, allowing there to be demonstrations at provincial level, also in agreement with the MIUR and the school, so that we do not forget what happened. But we believe, as a Group, that perhaps it would be more appropriate to add to this day also a more concrete recognition for those who have had to endure, decades after decades, impairments that have affected not only the victims, but also their whole family, children and therefore the social, cultural and working context. This was the commitment that we had to make and that I indicated in the draft law that I have also retabled in this legislature, but the Government and this House have been deaf. We do not live only on commemorative and celebrative days, even if important for culture and memory, but we live also and above all on material, social and health support, but also - yes - economic support for those who have suffered from conflicts damages, impairments and moral and material mutilation that have made them, for a whole life, mutilated and disabled. That is why we believe that this is a first step, a breath of oxygen and a first step to arrive - and certainly as a Group we will ask for its calendarization - at that bill I told you before, with which we ask to intervene not only with memory on 1 February. To this remembrance must be consequent the recognition of a minimum partial compensation to those who have suffered damage, also because they are all elderly people already worn out throughout their family, social and working life and who have had to endure their impairments and their physical, psychological and moral inferiorities. That is why we believe it is necessary to recognize them perhaps a drop of water more than what is recognized to them now that it is really a misery. As I have already said, our Group supports this initiative. I wanted to do the intervention on the subject, being the son of a great invalid of war of first class, because I know how it tastes of salt the descent and the ascent for the other stairs for these mutilated and disabled civilians and war that have endured, in order to defend the patriotic ground, what other luckiest have not endured, suffering impairments of various kinds that the State, the Government and Parliament will have to recognize them in order to compensate, at least minimally, for what they have suffered. We therefore vote strongly in favour of the bill, but we consider it an initial vote, because the real vote must concern the recognition of rights, including economic rights, which the State has a duty to support towards those who have suffered impairments of their health, with consequences also on the working environment, family and social, because so far this State has been lazy and deaf and has little recognized these people.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u86	I address, on behalf of the House, a greeting to the students and teachers of the Liceo Classico Statale "Giosuè Carducci" of Cassino, in the province of Frosinone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u89	GUALDANI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than a century has passed since the outbreak of World War I. Even the memory of the second war seems to be increasingly faded in collective memory. Fortunately, several generations in Europe have grown in a climate where war was simply the object of memories and history of grandparents. The idea that war is something abstract and distant must not cause us to loosen our guard from trying to spread and preserve, especially among young people, the memory of the events and atrocities of the past, atrocities that have involved mankind in its entirety, not only soldiers and men of the front, but also many innocent people, entire civil populations involved in brutality because of interests, logic and purposes from which they were totally distant and foreign. It is increasingly difficult to establish the boundaries between wars, revolts, terrorism, attack and defence; what is certain is that in over 30 conflicting countries in the world we are fighting and dying in armed clashes involving, between alliances and indirect supports, a total of about fifty states. Today I would also like to reflect and outline a slightly clearer picture of these world conflicts. We mention Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq and the part of Africa in which Boko Haram operates, which means Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon, where the largest number of deaths have occurred even in the last year. The war in Syria, which involves, in one way or another, all the great world powers, has already caused about 35,000 deaths this year, including many civilians. Since the outbreak of the conflict in 2011, there are estimated to have been between 250,000 and 300,000 deaths. Numbers slightly lower than the total number of victims registered in Iraq, where however the conflict, which broke out in 2014, is only the last episode of the war that began in 2003. If these conflicts are at least able to ignite media interest, let us think of those countries like Yemen, where we are talking about some 6,400 deaths in 2015, a conflict that also involves Saudi Arabia, our ally country. We also fight in Donbass, in eastern Ukraine, where there were over 4,000 deaths last year, more than 500 this year. There are also conflicts in Pakistan, where the regular army fights against Taliban militias and, again, in Egypt, where the tail of the 2011 uprising caused 2,500 and more deaths. Libya was also part, not least, of the countries involved in the Arab Spring, where then ISIS intervened to complicate an already very controversial picture. The dead this year were almost a thousand. Speaking of asymmetrical wars, fought by state armies against organizations, I repeat, para-military or private, few would imagine that the number of victims in the fight against drug gangs in Mexico amounts to almost 10,000 since 2015. A huge number, if you think it's more than twice as many as those caused by the civil war in South Sudan, one of the many forgotten wars in Africa. South Sudan itself has been at the centre of several conflicts: first the separation from Sudan, which in the meantime is always engaged with the revolts in Darfour, and then the confrontation with Ethiopia and the internal war. In Ethiopia, moreover, an internal revolt of some ethnic and religious groups, including the Oromos, who called for reforms in the country, caused the harsh reaction of the Government, which responded with a violent repression, causing the death of hundreds of civilians and bringing the country closer to a real civil war. Then there are perpetual foreheads, those who turn back on intermittently, without, for years, finding a solution to the conflict. It is impossible not to mention Israel and Palestine, where almost a hundred people have died this year, but it is also the case of Bangladesh, Uganda and Congo. It is also difficult to read the reports about Mozambique, in which the National Resistance has taken up arms for some years now against the central government. Thousands of Mozambican refugees, therefore, have tried to enter Malawi, in order to find refuge to what is becoming, to all intents and purposes, a civil war. All this makes a lot of thought about what is happening in the world right now. I ask a question: what is the day of peace for? Probably not to resolve even one of these conflicts, as to become aware first of all of a problem of information, but also of the diplomatic stalemate in many areas of the world and of the total disinterest of the international community in areas left to the most brutal carnage. Therefore, the purpose of the bill we are about to pass is to preserve the memory of the civilian victims of all wars and conflicts in the world and to promote the culture of peace and the repudiation of war. The date of the institution is identified on the day of 1 February. It was chosen on 1 February because it is the day of the entry into force of the single text of the rules on war pensions in 1978; those rules equated, for the purposes of compensation treatment, the civilian victims with the military ones recognizing the first equal dignity compared to the military fallen. They will organize at this date ceremonies, events, meetings and testimonies on what the civilian population has experienced during the world wars and on the impact of subsequent conflicts on the civilian populations around the world. The measure, in view of the high educational, social and cultural value of National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World, also assigns to specific directives issued by the Ministry of Education, University and Research the task of involving schools of all levels, including through the participation of the National Association of Civil Victims of War ONLUS and its International Observatory on Civil Victims of Conflicts. Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. The figures I have mentioned really reflect, and I hope that Members will pay proper attention to this issue. How many wars and civilian casualties are going on in the world right now? So never lower your gaze before the atrocities of war and the suffering of the civilian population. This provision is a warning to future generations: they cannot and must not forget what history has sadly taught us. Therefore, I am voting in favour of this measure by my Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u92	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of the establishment of the National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts, as a sign of respect for the civilian victims of Wars and of indignation at the lack of international attention given to the need to safeguard civilians at the time of the conflicts, often accompanied by the usual equipment of justifications, which resort to the concepts of collateral damage, when not even to the accusations against opponents of using human shields in order to safely kill even unarmed citizens by directing responsibility to someone else. We will vote in favour because this is consistent with our positions. But let me say that it is not the same for those in this House who support a majority that stands out and stands out for authorising the export of bombs, for example, to a country that uses them against the civilian population: we are talking about Yemen. And don't tell me that it was the previous government that did it and that therefore the current government had nothing to do with it, since we are talking about a government whose Prime Minister was in the previous government precisely the owner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on which the authorization to export arms depend. It would suffice to recall Article 1 (5) of Law No 185 of 1990, which prohibits arms exports when they are contrary to our foreign policy, in order to consider such exports inappropriate and illegitimate. I would also like to give a few small figures, since we are talking about Yemen, where the vast majority of the population has been exterminated with bombs produced by RWM Italy in the Sardinian Domusnovas plant. I remember that RWM Italia is an Italian company, although owned by Germany, and from Italy depend on the export authorizations of bombs produced by that company. Since March 2015 - I am sorry to partially correct my colleague Gualdani, who spoke of about 6,000 deaths in Yemen - we have already exceeded 10,000 civilian deaths and 40,000 injured. These are reported from a UN report released just a few days ago following the meeting between the UN Special Envoy to Yemen Ismail Ould Cheikh Ahmed and President Abd Rabbu Mansour Hadi. These estimates were also quoted by UN Yemen's head Jamie McGoldrick, who said that 80% of the population needed urgent humanitarian aid (about 19 million people) and spoke of 3 million internally displaced people. This is the situation in Yemen due to bombs produced in Italy. That is why I am saying that we will vote in favour of this measure, which, from a certain point of view, is highly hypocritical, certainly not on our part: hypocrisy is of others who have supported policies that in fact have made many civil victims in the world. I do not know if there are Italian weapons involved in Syria, but we are talking about a country where the dead have been 60,000, 13,600 of which are civilians. I would also like to point out that in 2015 Italian arms exports almost tripled: we had a 200 percent increase in arms export authorisations. We're talking about a deal that went from 2.6 billion euros in 2014 to 7.9 billion euros in 2015. So we are practically voting on a bill of solidarity with the victims of the conflicts that we ourselves have helped to create with arms trafficking. However, we will vote in favour of the measure; the contradiction is all yours and we will wait for 1 February - the chosen day - to call the Government to its responsibilities and perhaps to organize some beautiful demonstration in the vicinity of some weapons factory that on that date, perhaps, in respect of this bill that we are voting on, would do well to close the factories and for one day stop the production of weapons. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u95	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us contains provisions on the establishment of the National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World. The provision is charged with the most worthy feelings, which we share in their entirety. It is arranged that the Republic recognizes on 1 February of each year as National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World. The date refers to the entry into force on 1 February 1978 of the single text on war pensions. That text equated the civilian victims with the military victims, recognizing at first the same dignity that is recognized by the fallen military. The Second World War established the epoch of global war, where every civilian population was victimized in spite of it, without any possibility of choice. The involvement of civilians in armed conflicts is not a rare phenomenon, but has become more and more frequent, to emphasize an escalation of violence that has caused damage to the populations of every continent. During these decades the number of civilian deaths has risen dramatically, not being known, however, the collateral victims due to lack of food, water and medical care. Moreover, the current historical moment, characterized by the terrorist barbarism, also prospered due to the superficiality of the Western Chancellors, has allowed the further spread of violence on the civilian populations. The attacks on civilians in wars have not only resulted in the killing of them, but have unfortunately also created a generation of disabled people, refugees, widowers and orphans who will weigh on the economy of their country and countries forced to take on the weight of millions of displaced persons. In any case, we hope that this day will not only be commemorative, but can represent a moment of reflection, a warning for young people and future generations, an instrument that strengthens the culture of peace and mutual respect among peoples. Schools should also be responsible for providing students with the appropriate study tools to deepen the topics and events for which such an event will be remembered on a given day. School institutions should in fact help students to increase their critical consciousness, through a thorough study of history, in order to better understand the causes and effects that led to a war. The above can be profitable if there will be no political involvements that lead to the exploitation of the current event and possibly to create divisions. We therefore hope, as stated in Article 3 of the measure under consideration, that the Ministry of Education, University and Research can effectively be the guarantor of the correct implementation of the directives for the involvement of all schools, of every order and grade, in the promotion of the National Day of the civilian victims of wars and conflicts in the world. I shall conclude, Mr President, by declaring the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u98	Mr Valentini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is intended to fill an important gap not only in legislation. The establishment of the National Day of the Civil Victims of Conflicts in the World does not, in fact, represent only the completion of a legislative path, but assumes a great civil and cultural value, of which we must feel proud today. The legislative process, as many know, originates even in February 1979, with the entry into force of the single text aimed at recognizing the civil victims of the Second World War the same compensation rights as those of the military. Today, with the approval of this bill, the Republic recognizes first of all the political and civil value of the sacrifice of thousands of our fellow citizens. A sacrifice whose memory is still alive in the memory of many families, in the social fabric of our cities, our small countries and which is also part of that vast legacy of the Second World War from whose experience the Democratic and anti-fascist Republic was born. Republic that finds its founding values in peace and peaceful coexistence. Secondly, in accordance with the spirit and direction of our Constitutional Charter, Parliament has chosen to extend the commemoration to the civilian victims of all the world's conflicts. It is a clear choice, which revives the idea of peaceful coexistence as a beacon and as a guide in international relations. A particularly significant choice in an era such as today's, which we live today, marked by the construction of walls, by the noise of war, by the risk of new regressions, by wars now without frontiers or fronts. Today 67 countries are at war. The Second World War cost 54 million victims, mostly civilians: the first case in the history of mankind. Only in Italy were they more than 150,000, about a third of the total, as Senator Amati reminded us. But from 1945 to today there are over 25 million civilian victims of world conflicts, even those we do not remember and the most forgotten. There are two million children. The chronicles of recent years and months relating to Africa, the Middle East and Europe itself remind us that we are still far from eliminating the use of force to resolve international disputes. We all remember how, on the same continent that witnessed the Shoah and the atrocities of the Second World War, in the 1990s a conflict such as that broke out in the former Yugoslavia, destined to mark, often in an atrocious way, the lives of thousands of innocent people. Europe, the world, as we see every day, is now in a state of war, sometimes even never declared. This is a sign that no one can say is immune to the dangers of war. In the same way, we all face our eyes and hearts the terrible images of the civilian victims of Aleppo. The refugees fleeing their wars and dying in our seas. The victims of terrorism, innocent lives torn from their lands and their families. As we know, there are more and more non-military admissions to hospitals in some important theatres of confrontation, such as Afghanistan. With the establishment of National Day, it will be possible to honour in a thorough and participatory way the memory of all the civilian victims, involving the institutions, the witnesses, talking to us especially to our young people in our schools. In fact, so that it is not an empty commemorative day, the law invites all institutions to promote and organize widespread initiatives to involve young people, students, citizenship and to build a culture of peace. We want and must remember innocent women, men and children killed in all conflicts. We must do this, in order to recognize them the right tribute, but also to help build paths of coexistence and mutual respect. Remembering and testifying to the history of women, men and children killed innocent, we can help build a culture and a consciousness of peace, today more than ever necessary, in order to spread among young people the critical tools useful to broaden the awareness of what war is and what it can and must always be done to avoid it. To respond also to a speech made yesterday by a colleague of the 5 Star Movement, I would like to recall here the commitment of the Democratic Party, always supported by basic principles that guide and supervise our foreign and security policy, which we have been following for many years now and which come from the second period of Article 11 of our Constitution. As Senator Vattuone points out, I am referring to our choice for multilateral crisis management and to giving stability, continuity and programming capacity to the action of the international community in favour of the stability and peaceful development of peoples in a context of adherence to the system of relations and institutions based on the United Nations and the other organisations to which we belong in accordance with international law. We strive in every way to develop the cultural and organizational elements that allow the defense to contribute organically to the country's effort to develop the indispensable framework of security and peace for the future. For this reason, for everything I have said and for everything I have not said, but that we have in our minds and in our hearts, the Group of the Democratic Party is expressing this evening a favourable opinion and hopes, as I understand from all the speeches, that the widest possible and necessary convergence can be achieved in order to build our culture of peace. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u101	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u102	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u103	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00549 tabled by Senator Marin and other senators, 1-00591, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, 1-00686, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00687, presented by Senator Munerato and other senators, 1-00688, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, 1-00690, presented by Senator Parente and other senators, and 1-00691, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators, on minimum pensions. I would remind you that in the afternoon sitting on 15 November the motions were presented and the debate took place. I call on the State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Cassano, to give an opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u104	Mr President, I begin with motion No 591, by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, on whose premises I am opposed. At the first point of the provision, we ask for a rewording of which I read: "to introduce a system of equalization based on the revaluation of the pension treatment on the scales of amount, confirming, from 2019, the return to the mechanism already provided for in law 23 December 2000, n. 388, and to assess the possibility, taking into account the budgetary constraints, of recovering part of the non-indexation for the purpose of the one-off revaluation of the upright in 2019." On point 2, I welcome the rewording that I am going to read: "to enhance the activities of the Patronage Institutes in order to ensure a better performance of the service they carry out in order to protect the rights of citizens and in particular pensioners." On point 3) the opinion supports the following rewording: "to continue to strengthen the instruments for combating poverty and social hardship and to enhance the function of supplementary insurance." In point 4, the opinion supports the following rewording: "to continue to strengthen interventions in favour of certain categories of persons in conditions of social distress." On point 5, the opinion supports the rewording of which I read: In the case of Senator Marin and other senators, I take the contrary view of the premises and the first point of the provisions. We then call for the withdrawal of point 2 of the mechanism because the opinion is contrary because the commitment has already been exceeded by the rules introduced by the 2017 Budget Law with measures such as the financial advance to pension guarantee (EPA), social EPA, temporary retirement pension (RITA), elimination and penalty on early retirement, no tax area retired. As regards point 3 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: "To continue to strengthen interventions in favour of certain categories of persons in a state of social distress" In point 4 the opinion is also in favour if it is reworded as follows: In order to continue, without prejudice to the constraints of public finance, in the initiatives aimed at reducing taxation on minimum pensions, as already achieved through the 2017 Budget Act, paragraphs 210 and 211 of the Treaty. As far as motion No 690 is concerned, the opinion is in favour. On motion 686, the opinion was against the premises. As far as the system is concerned, we call for point (1) to be reworded as follows: In order to assess the possibility, in line with public finance constraints, of continuing interventions to increase low-value pension treatment, taking into account the measures already taken under the 2017 Budget Act. On point 2 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: To verify the existence of reasons for making the criteria of the current social security system more equitable and supportive. As regards point 3 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: To assess the possibility of finding a definitive solution to the social security problems of workers at the so-called 96 quota of the school. As far as motion 687 is concerned, the opinion on the premises is against it. On point 1 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: To introduce an equalisation system based on the revaluation of the pension treatment on the scales of amount confirming, as from 2019, the return to the mechanism already provided for in the Law of 23 December 2000 n. 388 and to assess the possibility, taking into account budgetary constraints, to recover part of the non-indexation for the purpose of the one-off revaluation of the mountaineer 2019. With regard to point 2 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded with the words: In order to assess the possibility, in line with public finance constraints, of continuing interventions to increase low-value pension treatment taking into account the measures already taken under the 2017 Budget Act. On point 3 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: To assess the possibility of taking action in order to exploit the so-called silent contributions, taking into account the solidarity principle underlying the social security system. With regard to point 4 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded with the words: It enhances the activities of the Patronage Institutions in order to ensure a better performance of the service they carry out in order to protect citizens' rights and, in particular, pensioners' rights. With regard to Amendment No 688, the opinion is in favour of the premises, while point 1 of the proposal requires that it be reworded as follows: To introduce an equalisation system based on the revaluation of the pension treatment on the scales of amount, confirming, as from 2019, the return to the mechanism already provided for in the Law of 23 December 2000 n. 388, and to assess the possibility, taking into account the budgetary constraints, to recover part of the non-indexation for the purpose of the one-off revaluation of the upright 2019 s. With regard to point 2 of the operative part, the opinion is against and we ask for its withdrawal, as the commitment has already been exceeded by the rules introduced by the 2017 Budget Act. On point 3 the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: In order to assess the possibility, in line with public finance constraints, of continuing interventions to increase low-value pension treatment, taking into account the measures already taken under the 2017 Budget Act. As regards motion No 691, at the first signature of Senator Catalfo, the opinion is opposed to the premises. On point 1 of the operative part, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: To introduce an equalisation system based on the revaluation of pension treatment on the amount scales, confirming, as from 2019, the return to the mechanism already provided for in Law No 388 of 23 December 2000, and to assess the possibility, taking into account budgetary constraints, to recover part of the non-indexation for the purpose of the one-off revaluation of the amount of the amount of the pension. With regard to point 2 of the operative part, the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: In order to assess the possibility, in line with public finance constraints, of continuing interventions to increase low-value pension treatment, taking into account the measures already taken under the 2017 Budget Act. On point 3) the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: In order to continue, without prejudice to the constraints of public finance, in the initiatives aimed at reducing taxation on minimum pensions, as already achieved through the 2017 Budget Act, paragraphs 210 and 211 of the Treaty. On point 4, the opinion is opposed and calls for it to be withdrawn because the commitment in part has been exceeded in the rules introduced by the 2017 Budget Act.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u108	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, we believe that the rewordings, as presented, do not effectively put an end to the Constitutional Court's ruling, which offered the possibility of a full re-evaluation. Moreover, the idea of the fourteenth, as envisaged by the Government, did not essentially give the definitive answer. The fundamental points of our motion of fact have not been taken seriously: more than a rewording, it was a mutilation of the same motion that we tabled. For these reasons, while appreciating the willingness of the Government to give some favourable opinions (but with rewordings that in fact do not represent the real objective of the motion, which was to give a definitive response to the decision of the Constitutional Court, without circumventing it), we will not accept the proposed rewording and we will ask to put our motion to the vote in the original text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u111	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have read all the motions proposed and are quite interested in all the documents presented, which call on the Government to intervene on minimum pensions and minimum treatment, as well as on the question of the blocking of automatic equalisations, the result of the rest of the Fornero reform. In fact we remember the decree saves Italy of 2011, i.e. the Monti-Fornero reform, which provided for the blocking of the automatic equalization in all cases of pensions that exceeded three times the minimum. The issue then became of constitutional importance. On this point the Constitutional Court was called upon to intervene, which in April 2015 declared the illegality of this rule, because, according to the Court, the decoupling of the mechanisms of automaticism for such a long and considerable time would have made the emoluments perceived unprotected compared to the changes in the purchasing power of the currency. Some passages of the Constitutional Court state that the interests of pensioners are aimed at preserving the purchasing power of the sums received, resulting in a right to an adequate benefit. This right - according to the Court - becomes unreasonablely sacrificed in the name of exclusively financial rules. We must, however, point out as the North League the strangeness that the Court declares this rule unconstitutional, but it does not admit and arrives to cash in the referendum of the North League, which, on the Fornero law, had succeeded (and also on its own in this titanic enterprise) to collect and exceed the figure of the 500,000 signatures planned for the admission of the referendum. What did the lack of indexing mean? It should have been returned in full: this was the case with the Constitutional Court. The Renzi Government furbestly even circumvents the sentence and judges it an additive judgment of principle: this means, according to the Renzi Government, that the provision would establish a principle, but would then entrust to the legislator, in this case to the Government, the implementation of the norm. Renzi, in fact, in May 2015, launches Decree No. 65, which not only does not provide for the total refund of non-indexation, but only partial refund, but also goes further; even pro-future rule, providing for the upcoming indexing from 2016, which we define at the limit of ridicule. Thus, pensions of three to four times the minimum, of 10% of pensions of four to five times the minimum and of 5% of pensions of five to six times the minimum would have been indexed by 20%. This last band, that of the rich, which would be substantially indexed ridiculously, with a 5%, would be pensions that, net of all, would amount to about 1.600 euros; for the Renzi government these were probably rich to punish. The motions - it must be said - all intend to commit the Government to give full effect to the judgment of the Court and this cannot be, even from the North League, not shared. However, we do not share what we are putting on stage today more or less, that is, a farce, because we are debating to vote on themes in games - alas - already finished, because the government with the economic maneuver that it has launched has already defined and decided these interventions on minimum pensions and has established exclusively, with Article 32 of the draft budget law, the extension of the no tax area for pensioners. That is why we decided not to table our motion for a resolution, which would have been additional to what we are discussing today, because committing the government to something that has already been decided upon to us seemed objectively to be a mockery especially of pensioners. What would make sense today would be to commit the government on the front of stopping cashing out on pensioners, what, for example, it is doing today with the EPA, that is, with the pension advance: the government is dealing for flexibility something that is in fact solely dependent on pensioners, who, if they want to retire first, will have to have access to a twenty-year mortgage. At what age? Around the age of sixty-three: this is madness. We have never shared, as the North League, the choice to ensure the stability of public accounts not by cutting waste and unproductive expenses but always hit some categories, and in this case would be pensioners. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u114	D'ANNA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I repeat what I had to say in my general speech. I believe that if we were called here, one at a time, to explain the juniper of rules that are referred to in the various motions for resolutions, we would show that they are the testimonial of a series of interventions that the State is doing not to put at the root the question of equal pensions, increasing the minimum pensions that are shameful in a rule of law. In order to do this, however, there is no need for demagogy, nor, unfortunately, do we have the resources that used the policy of the past, that of fat cows, that is, beating money, inflating and rewarding the various categories either by increasing salary or by increasing pensions, thus supporting demand, production and employment. It must be clear that we have entered into the rules of the European Union, which so far, unfortunately, more than political rules are rules of tears and blood, of control, of balance of budget, of fiscal compact. For a country like ours, which boasts the brilliant primacy of having passive interests as the fourth item of expenditure of its budget, in addition to a liability of about 2,150 billion euros, obviously not being able to beat money and having to observe the parameters that Maastricht has imposed on us, does not allow to make these developments so dear to the defenders of the pauperistic state, the welfare state and the famous oxymoron, so much appreciated by the most, that it goes under the name of social justice that is nothing more than the ethics of the tribe, that is the ethics that favors the social strata and the categories that have a greater electoral weight. That's Von Hayek's definition, not mine. But let's get to retirement. Do we want to tell the truth for once in this House? 18.48 (Follow D'ANNA). Otherwise, this government, like its predecessors and those who will come, will ruffle other norms trying to compensate the idea of the equalization with the fact that the money is not there, thus arriving, in one way or another to deny pensioners the equation that was recognized to them ante litteram, ante reform. If it is not clear in these classrooms that we have a million retired babys who cost us 9 and a half billion a year and a further 7 million pensioners who receive a pension calculated on their last pay, that is 60% higher than they would be on the basis of the contributions paid, and we do not solve, in part - not in all - the issue of acquired rights - which will also be acquired but in a context of State solvency - we will not have the resources to equal for the benefit of the weak classes and the minimum pensions. There is no more chance of giving everything to everyone because there is no more chance of debt. So what do we want to talk about here tonight? Do we have to decide whether to equalize those who have a pension whose value is two or three times the minimum, or three or four times, or five or six times? We will always leave out people who are entitled to receive the pension they received until a certain date. Isn't it better then to make the Copernican revolution and demand back from millions of citizens a part of those tangles than in the time of the policy of fat cows and the unscrupulous use of the lever of public spending at increasing debt was granted to them, in order to be able to tesauriarizzare resources to give to the weakest classes? So we thank the Government for the partial acceptance of our motion, even if we are then asked to adhere to this brain formulation by moving to 2018 the resolution of the problem, which for us takes place in another context of resolution of all the privileges and everything that could not be bestowed but that was bestowed and consumed, in order to be able to give to those who least have. We therefore do not accept the wording proposed by the Government, we will vote against the majority motion and we will ask for our motion to be put to the vote. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u117	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, unfortunately, I have to say - my explanation of vote is in this respect - that the proposed rewordings do not resolve the issue which was generally represented in the motions tabled. This is a real, very well-heard issue, which needs a political response, not a technical response; it does not need calls for compatibility of public finance, but rather to identify paths in which a solution is found, which is necessary. In a world like this, where eight people have the resources of half of the world - and this news has been published in all the newspapers, broadcast on all televisions, travels on the Internet and captures everyone - we intend to force poverty an important part of our population, the one that has minimum pensions, not because it has not worked or has not contributed to the development of the country, but because the dynamics that have taken place in the meantime have forced the State not to fulfil the task assigned to it by the Constitution on this very level; I think there is a need for a higher, more robust response and commitment of the Government, with more sense. We risk having a country in a few years (it is already the case, but in a few years it will be even worse) in which there are the young poor who arrive forty years and have not yet done a day's work, and the retired elderly, not those who currently receive a salary pension that the colleague mentioned before, who maintain the extended family (i.e. the children and children of the children who often live in the same house), but those who hold this effort, in much wider conditions of poverty. So we'll have poor young people who can't even be assisted by their grandparents and have their poor grandparents. The problem does not therefore concern compatibility and rewording; the problem is political: how to solve the issue of the economic crisis in this country; what idea of society we have; what idea of productive capacity we must give to this country. I don't know. Is it worth proposing reformulations? Let us say so if you are not in a position to carry out the task today; let us put the problem, let us make an agenda shared by everyone that recognizes that this is a problem and let us see how to solve it, and let us archive these motions, with the commitment of everyone to get out of this crisis, since we are in crisis. Otherwise, we reword, respect compatibility, quote Europe and disgust the people. Let's not put ourselves on this level: it's wrong. Pensioners at the very least suffer hunger, young unemployed people suffer hunger, and this is a country where inequality and social and economic differences, if they remain unresolved, are unbearable. Let's take an action of courage. I say that I shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to which I am a signatory and I will abstain on that proposal from the majority because it has no weight, i.e. it does not go to the root of the problem, it does not remove it: it is a lukewarm parliamentary act. We ask the government, with whom we hope to do something, to tackle the problem really, that is, to put ourselves on the issue of how to resolve these issues. Surely they must be resolved using all the energies. If we continue to think that the division, the split into four of each position, the artifices, the verbal acrobatics, even the numerical, accountantistic ones, typical of the Ministry of Economics, continue to function, let's get it off our heads: that's not the case. They are already asking us for a 3.5 billion maneuver, we are already in a situation where, every time we face a problem of accounting writing, there are seven different positions, moreover expressed by the bodies responsible for this purpose in the context of the functioning of the State: from the Parliamentary Budget Office to the Budget Committees of the House and Senate, to the ministerial offices themselves, to the General Accounting Office of the State. These are issues that resolve by resolving the economic crisis in this country and having an idea of how to get out of it, not working on the formulations of parliamentary acts. For this reason, Mr President, as I said, I shall vote in favour of the motions in general which take up the subject and develop it, as we have done, and I shall abstain from voting on the majority motion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Forgive me, Senator Uras, so you do not accept the proposals for reformulation? URAS (Mixed). Absolutely not. I thought it was clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was, but I wanted another specification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u120	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of pensions is very topical and deserves constant attention and vigilance from Parliament and the Government. The motions before us today deal precisely with this: to submit to the Government the question of minimum pensions and their economic revaluation over the years. As has already been mentioned, the argument requires an assessment of two interests also guaranteed by the Constitution and recognised by the Constitutional Court in its judgments, which involve divergent and not perfectly coincident consequences: the protection of pension benefits and respect for the balance of the public budget, within the framework of European rules. The Consulta, in the judgment n. 70 of 2015, considered that the Executive, at the time led by Professor Monti, with Decree-Law n. 201 of 2011, had gone too far in making the principle of stability of the state's economic accounts prevail, suspending for the 2012-2013 period the revaluation for pensions exceeding three times the minimum, compared to the expectations of pension adjustment according to the principles of proportionality and adequacy. Like all judgments, even the one just referred to had to be respected and applied in its main directives, although it had not been shared by several parties. And the Government has done just that: with Decree-Law No. 65 of 2015 it has defined the criteria and modalities for an implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court that would ensure an adequate pension treatment in compliance with the balance of the budget and the objectives of public finance. In particular, the Decree-Law provided for the recognition of the automatic revaluation of pension treatment of a total amount of more than three times the minimum INPS treatment in different ways over the years. It is easy to see how the greatest possible effort has been made with scarce economic resources: the new system of equalization has intended to protect the weakest, excessively penalized groups according to the Constitutional Court, while at the same time ensuring the stability of financial balances. With this in mind, the proposal for a motion which, among those presented, highlights the greatest balance in the commitments requested by the Government and which more objectively reconstructs the question of the revaluation of minimum pensions appears to be the first signature of the Parent Senator. For these reasons, the request to the Government to introduce an equalisation system based on the amount scales, confirming from 2019 the return to the mechanism already provided for by Law No 388 of 23 December 2000, seems appropriate and appropriate. Especially since, as already mentioned, this reform is one of the two pillars of the general reform of the pension sector already initiated by the last budget law. In fact, Law No. 232 of 2016 has put in place a structured and coherent system to allow early exits from work both as a general alternative to all workers, as well as as as opportunities to particularly weak categories or peculiar characteristics. It is therefore time to take action to verify all options for developing a different index for the revaluation of pensions, which is more representative of the consumption structure of pensioners. With a sense of realism and responsibility towards Italians, we must have in mind that we move in an extremely critical and uncertain national and international economic scenario; at the same time, however, we are called to give concrete answers to the right demands of pensioners to have the pension equalization, albeit with graduality and proportionality. For all the above considerations, I declare the favorable vote of the People's Area Group on motion 690, at the first signature of Senator Parente. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u123	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, social security is one of the nerves discovered in this country and the solutions put in place by the government are absolutely not satisfactory. Let us be clear: you have lost valuable years in which concrete answers could be given to our most fragile and disadvantaged citizens. The various governments of this legislature wanted to ignore pensioners, an increasingly abandoned category. Being here today to discuss a motion on minimum pensions (i.e. a commitment that the Government should make for this section of citizens) is already some sort of mockery for them. This is a strange country, where young people must be young up to an unfailing age and stay with their parents and grandparents because they are out of work and where old people have to stay young to be able to work until their strength is exhausted. The data on poverty heard yesterday in the Commission work by the President of INPS Boeri are worrying and disastrous. Poverty has been increasing steadily since 2014. A country that is getting more and more screwed up and that is launching income support measures, such as the ASDI (unemployment benefit), for which less than 3% of the resources put in the field have been spent, and the SIA (support for active inclusion), which has left out many, since the reception rate is less than a third (it speaks of 29 percent). And we had the news, again in yesterday's hearing of the representatives of the ANCI, that the allocation of this benefit has not yet started. No one, I mean, is sensing anything yet. This is due to the extreme bureaucratization and to the measures too restrictive to access these state alms; a bureaucracy often mixed with commercial ads. What about Renzi, who on 14 November 2016 remembers the minimum pensions, deliberately close to the most important constitutional referendum ever, announcing an increase between 30 and 50 euros per month for pensioners under a thousand euros. Shortly before he had launched with the usual bonus of 80 euros, but then he thought about it again. Measures that, however, did not bring the desired results. Maybe discomfort and poverty are really at the limit, and fewer and fewer people believe in announcements aimed at electoral consensus. Today's figures tell us that six out of ten pensioners receive a pension of less than EUR 750 per month. And I'd like to see how you could live with 750 euros a month. And someone we know from close up! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We've been suing him forever. More than six million pensioners risk becoming poor because they do not benefit from any benefit linked to low income requirements. This situation could be avoided even if our proposal for citizenship income was introduced immediately in Italy, a firm measure for more than two years in the Senate work committee: precisely, since January 2015. A real shame! To say that this is at least paradoxical seems to us to be the least, Mr President. As paradoxical as it seems the blindness of these successive governments and have given priority to measures for banks and large lobbying, but have not protected the weakest band of our citizenship. And we are talking about millions of Italian citizens who are as dazzling as the Government finds on the nail before Christmas 20 billion for private banks, emphasizing their suffering, and not find, after years of our insistence, 17 billion for the suffering of nine million people! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] More and more people are talking about fleeing grandparents, the phenomenon that sees an increasing number of elderly people leaving Italy in search of a more sustainable standard of living, in countries such as Bulgaria, Thailand, the Canary Islands, Central America, wherever you can survive with some dignity. People who tell us that they have a pension of 830 euros a month, and maybe live in Rome and 650 euros of rent can not really pay them. This is the result of the political choices of recent years! Our motion, 1-00691 at the first signature of Senator Nunzia Catalfo, presented Tuesday, November 15, 2016 in this Chamber, has clearly highlighted the direction that the 5 Star Movement wants to take. It goes in the direction of giving concrete, tangible and immediate answers to those who today cannot put together lunch with dinner. And all this also in compliance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, No. 70 of 30 April 2015, declaring the rule of Article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law No. 201 of 2011, converted, with amendments, by Law No. 214 of 22 December 2011, which excluded, for the years 2012 and 2013, the application of the automatic equalization for pension treatment of a total amount greater than three times the minimum INPS treatment. Look at the fact that for citizens who are listening to this seems like a lunar language, which is quite incomprehensible; it simply means that the previous Led and Renzi Governments, and now the "Gentil-Renzi- bis," are not respecting the fundamental rights addressed to the weakest citizens enshrined in the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me say that often in the Commission I work the same Juslavorist Professor Ichino of the Democratic Party laughed at us when we pointed out the unconstitutionality of the various measures adopted (we repeated it continuously), except then to have from the highest competent bodies (i.e. the consulta) the answers announced by the 5 Star Movement, that is, that here we are systematically acting in an area forced out of the links of constitutional law. Gentlemen, almost 500,000 pensioners in Italy live alone and receive treatment below the poverty line: we will never tire of repeating it with a great voice! The 5 Star Movement requests full reimbursement of the unpaid pension due to Law No 201 of 2011. It is necessary to give back entirely what is unlawfully taken away from our pensioners, who are now an increasingly at risk of poverty and cannot and must not be abandoned. Pensioners are, unfortunately, the real welfare of this country, the only support for families and children who are increasingly unemployed and poor! As early as 2014, among the seven violations of the European Social Charter charged to Italy by the Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe, the amount of minimum pensions, judged to be inadequate, had been reported and the lack of legislation able to guarantee older people the same standard of living as the rest of the population. I repeat that we in the 5 Star Movement strongly call for implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court establishing the illegality of the indexation of pensions. We strongly call for the raising of minimum pensions to the relative poverty line, i.e. EUR 780 per month. We strongly demand to increase the no tax area for pensioners who arrive at 9,960 euros per year. We strongly ask for the cancellation of the honesty of the contributory reunions at the INPS. We also strongly call for early workers to have access to the pension with forty-one years of contributions, without any limitations of age and without penalties. All this, Mr President, is urgent and without whether or not. We take note of the fact that today the Government asks us to change our motion by bringing it into the wake of its choices, which are then the same as previous governments, which choke citizens and condemn them more and more to die of work or hunger. It is unacceptable for us in the M5S to endorse the worst policy in recent years on pensions. We therefore strongly reject the proposed rewordings and ask that we vote on our motion as it is, without whether or not it is. Rejecting our proposals is practically senseless and irresponsible. We invite you to take this responsibility and to give it to the citizens who outside this building expect real, concrete and tangible answers, and not commercials or tweets, political responses that must come from here, from the highest institutions of the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u126	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group of the Senate filed motion No 549 on the basis of the Constitutional Court's ruling No 70 of 2015, which established the constitutional illegitimacy of the re-evaluation of pensions, i.e. the provisions that were able to bring together, i.e. that only a few pensions had to be re-evaluated. Starting from this we have managed to open a debate on the issue of pensions in our country. I can't help but start my explanation of vote by remembering that the last increase in minimum pensions is attributable to the Berlusconi Government and thinking about what we will do when we return to the Government, because we will return, since this majority and the center-left Executive are doing too much damage to the country and other political forces are not able to start real solutions. A party like ours doesn't scream, not tormented, but gives solutions to problems. We began to talk about minimum pensions by making a serious and profound speech and the considerations of the Undersecretary - he said that some problems have already been overcome and he proposed that we rewrite a point in our motion by expressing a negative opinion on others - leaves us deeply dissatisfied. We need to remember some issues, as other colleagues have done before. The fact that in Italy 6 out of 10 pensioners have pensions that do not reach or exceed - you decide, so much it changes little if we want to face the problem seriously - the 750 euros per month I think offends consciences, beyond political membership. It is obvious, however - I regret to say - that this Government does not show conscience if it does not take note of these issues and does not intend to address them with the motions. According to the latest data from ISTAT, about 28.7 percent of Italian residents - I remind everyone that pensioners are also included in these data - in our country is at the level of poverty, with annual figures that stem it. In many cases they are families with more dependent children, but in many other cases - fairly equal - we talk about pensioners who have worked their whole lives and helped to build our country. We cannot, therefore, receive evasive answers or even worse to be told that year by year the budget law solves the problem. We should have heard clear words in this House today. That's a few 750 euros. The numbers that ISTAT provides do not have political color and, unfortunately, are not only unequivocal, but also boulders on people's consciences. 40.3 percent of Italians have pensions of less than 1,000 euros and, perhaps, they are families that have other people at their expense, such as the wife who has not worked outside the family because the work of the housewife is difficult. And this is another topic that will be in the government program when we introduce ourselves - hopefully soon - to the elections with a new electoral law that gives real representation to the Italians. In front of this your consciences do not feel touched? The motions of various political forces cannot be accepted? Do you have to hide behind a fig leaf saying that we are dealing with issues? We would have liked to hear clear words about these issues, because the numbers have no political color and these are the data. 28.7 percent of Italians are at risk of poverty. Do we realize that, according to data from ISTAT and CENSIS, young people live with retired parents and do not find work? This issue cannot be disconnected from the data on youth unemployment, which in this country is 40.3%. There are no solutions. We are not talking about flops act even today because we are dealing with pensions, although it has shown us how permanent hirings, which serve to pay the quotas that will become pensions of the various acronyms, are decreasing continuously. It didn't even serve the jobs act, which became the flops act. Young people often live with the pensions of their parents who have worked a lifetime and are pensions that in six out of ten cases reach a maximum of 750 euros. That is why we have said that we are dealing with this issue and have not done so in our motion in an instrumental way. We asked simple questions. When it is said that taxation on pension treatment in Italy is among the highest in Europe, we cannot hear it being exceeded. You have to face it or not. If you decide to do so, you have to lower your taxes. Since a left-wing government is in office, I would like to say that social issues are no longer left-wing. I listened to an interview with former candidate Premier - the MPs of the Democratic Party are here thanks to 25% of the votes that the Democratic Party took with Bersani candidate for the Presidency of the Council - who no later than yesterday claimed that the PD no longer says left-wing things. Socialism, the elderly, the disabled, pensioners and families are not left-wing: they belong to everyone. They are also values of moderates, Catholics and liberals; they are the DNA of Forza Italia. Do we defend them? Do you not feel obliged to say that we must lower the tax burden, the taxation of pensions; that minimum pensions must be raised to at least 1,000 euros; that we must recognise different treatments to those who have disabled children, but not as we do now, because the current ones are weak instruments and bring 28.7% of Italian families into poverty? This should shame a branch of the Italian Parliament. There is no need for technical answers. They should be everyone's themes. We at Forza Italia with the DNA I was talking about earlier asked the Senate Chamber to vote yes to our motion using terms that could fit everyone. Our demands are simple. One is on the revaluation. If it is legitimate for the Constitutional Court, how can people who have worked their whole lives say that pensions will not be re-evaluated? How can we fail to think that the flexibility that exits into the world of work cannot fail to foresee a reduction in pensions, which are at very low levels and, moreover, are subject to taxation among the highest in Europe? How can we fail to anticipate the increase in the minimum pensions and disadvantaged sections of this country? We're talking about people who've worked their whole lives. That is why the Forza Italia Group has tabled its motion. This is why the Forza Italia Group expects, when it presents itself to the Italians for the elections, to increase the minimum pensions to a thousand euros, with the credibility of those who have already increased them during the Berlusconi Government. That is why we say that these motions must be voted on and are so simple. We take charge of the defense of the elderly. That is why we think that those who work at home should have a recognised treatment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] That is why we say that our motion must be voted on by everyone. We take note of the fact that once again those who belong to the Government, the left to the Government, hide behind the technicalisms, hide behind the "we see it", "we postpone", "Parerinto", " opinion no". We do not hear from the Government any clear words about the fact that these are not acceptable conditions. It is not an acceptable condition for those who have built our country to live in economic conditions that they are suffering, on the contrary, they are clearly within the poverty line. The data numbers and assessments made are not political. The numbers ISTAT gives us are not political, but they are real data. I frankly feel no displeasure, but I would like to say shame, if all these elements, which are clear in our government proposals to the Italians, but which in our motion wanted to be generic, because we hoped to get a broad consensus, are rejected by a left-wing government, which has done nothing in the fields of work and pensions. It is for this reason that we will vote in favour of our motion - and I conclude and thank you, Mr President - and once again we will give a negative opinion on the work of a government of the left, centre, centre and left, which the Italians rejected in the referendum. The referendum was nothing more than a rejection of this Government and this political component. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u127	Excuse me, Senator Marin, if I understand correctly, you do not accept the Government's request for reformulation and maintain the original text of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u128	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u131	ANGIONES (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a principle of our order is certainly that for which all judgments, especially those of the Constitutional Court, must be applied. It is also a principle of our order, however, that the judgments, and in particular those of the Council, should be interpreted taking into account all its jurisprudence, especially the one concerning the common constitutional principles involved. And these general principles also apply to the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 70 of 2015, which - as is known - has partially rendered unconstitutional Decree-Law n. 201 of 2011, converted by Law n. 214 of 2011. I would say first of all that judgment No 70 cannot be read alone and cannot but be supplemented by the other judgments which - as the Court has already said since 1990 - call for gradual implementation of constitutional values which impose significant burdens on the state budget. The Court's extensive case-law complements the principles set out in Judgment No 70 and, since 2001, excludes that the Constitution may give rise to a right of adjustment for pensions of any amount, in particular for higher pensions, which - as the Court says - objectively have a less pressing need for revaluation than lower pensions. Therefore, it is the Court itself that admits equal treatment linked to the amount of pensions. And the Court also does so in judgment No 70, recalling the cases in which the legislative intervention blocking the adaptation is legitimate, as it respects the limits of reasonableness and proportionality. And it is the same Court that identifies Article 81 of the Constitution as a limit in order not to declare the illegality of legislative provisions that would - I quote the words of the Court - lead to a serious violation of the balance of the budget, including in relation to the sustainability of public debt and the obligations of Italy at international level and in particular with the European Union. This is even more so after the entry into force of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, which - as is well known - introduced the principle of balanced budget into our Charter. That is the position of the Constitutional Court. The others are stories. Decree-Law No. 65 of 2015, converted, with amendments, of Law No. 109, has legislated on the blocking of the indexing of the years 2012 and 2013 in response to a dramatic financial situation - we should all remember it, but someone should remember it more than others, having in those years had greater political responsibility than others and also compared to the current majority - establishing a different adjustment mechanism compatible with the financial capacity of the country. Today we reiterate what has already been said during the parliamentary debate on that decree-law: the application of the judgment n. 70 not contextualizzata would have determined additional burdens for the State - as it has been calculated - for more than 21 billion euros in the years 2015 and 2016, figures objectively incompatible with the financial and economic state of the Country, among other things with the risk - or rather the certainty - of an infringement procedure for violation of the rules of the Stability Pact and indirectly of a serious damage also of pensioners, of all pensioners, but above all of pensioners of the weakest groups. With that decree-law the Government therefore intended to follow fully the Court's instructions, first of all by addressing the average-low incomes, i.e. to almost 3.7 million pensioners, with an adjustment of 100% for pensions up to three times the minimum and with a lower adjustment for higher pensions. Of course, unfortunately, he had to make a choice. Being able to rely on scarce resources, the Government has chosen to give a complete answer first of all to pensioners with the minimum income. After a few years, I am convinced that the government has done very well to make that choice. [[Applause from the PD Group]] No doubt he made a better choice than he would have made in saying that between minimum pensioners and millionaire pensioners there is no difference, as someone even tonight tried to do. Of course, then, you made a choice. Mr President, the judgments of the Court must certainly be respected by applying the rules of law and, above all, by applying the constitutional principles. In my opinion, the motion by my colleague, Senator Parente, asks the Government to move on this matter on the basis of the balance of different constitutional principles, ensuring decent treatment for pensioners, for all pensioners, but in particular for those of the lowest groups, within the framework of the national financial resources available. With the scarce resources available, the Parent motion aims to pursue the constitutional principles of reasonableness and proportionality, proposing to the Government the possibility to use a different index for the revaluation of pensions, aimed at protecting the purchasing power of the pension treatment. It also proposes that part of the lack of equalisation in previous years should be recovered in the more than budgetary constraints, with a one-off revaluation of the pillar in 2019. We are in the wake of Constitutional Court judgment No 70 and - I believe - in the wake of the minimum principles of social justice. That is why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the Parent motion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u132	Senator Munerato, do you accept the proposed reformulation of your motion proposed by Undersecretary Cassano? I would remind you that the Government's opinion is against the premises and favours points 1, 2, 3 and 4 with the proposed rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u133	Mr President, we in the Fare Group! Of course, we cannot accept the reformulations because, failing the premises, the sense of our motion is distorted, which is very important to us. That is why we call for it to be put to the vote in its entirety.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u134	Since none of the presenters accept the Government's requests for reformulation, the opinion is against it. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 549. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for votes on all motions to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Marin and other senators to make a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No. 549, tabled by Senator Marin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 591. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 591, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 686. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 686, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 687. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 687, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 688. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Barani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 688. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 690. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 690, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 691. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 691, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, we have another motion on the agenda, but since we do not have time to finish work, I shall refer it back to another sitting. In the same way, the usual interventions at the end of the session, even considering the time spent in the afternoon sitting, are postponed to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u136	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-743.ana.u137	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 19 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.35 p.m.
