ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u4	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1261-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Palermo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u9	Mr President, we are back to dealing with a text that - as you will remember - has already committed this House about a year and a half ago: the first approval, in fact, has the date of 20 May 2015. After the Senate's approval, the text passed to the House, which made significant changes on which I will then dwell briefly. And now we go back to dealing with this text, to try to fire it hopefully definitively - except, of course, the House's further necessary intervention - by recovering the basic idea that inspired the first text that the Senate had approved - I remember - by a very large majority, almost unanimously. With great support, across all the Groups present in the Senate, after a long discussion in the Commission we felt it necessary to return substantially to the spirit and, to a large extent, also to the text of that original measure approved by the Senate in May 2015. The issue is - as we all know - of fundamental importance. It is enough to open the newspapers daily, unfortunately, to read about tragic cases involving children and not just the most vulnerable. And this is a new element, all in all, given precisely by the pervasiveness of the computer tools, that allow to reach almost everyone, and that, in the presence of situations of evolutionary immaturity, can cause very serious damage to the psyche, to evolution, to the harmonious development of the personality of minors. Consequently, there is an absolute need to act as legislators, in order to outline a fundamental framework within which to carry out educational policies that can preferably prevent rather than suppress such phenomena. I would like to remind you - as Senator Ferrara has already done on the occasion of the first discussion of the text - that her legislative initiative (which then had a very broad and transversal consensus) was born also from the dramatic experience, which she herself experienced in the first person, of her pupil who suffered terrible acts of humiliation through computer channels, which even led to tragic results. This case, unfortunately, is not isolated, but has been followed by many others. Therefore, the need to intervene is agreed across the board not only in this House and in the other branch of Parliament, but also in society as a whole. On the part of society, there is a very strong request to Parliament to adopt a text which can serve something quickly. Thus we come to the fundamental point, which is to ask ourselves what, how much and how much a law can do to respond to a social emergency that, evidently, cannot be fought and miraculously resolved with a touch of magic wand of the legislator: a broad intervention is necessary that covers all sectors of society. The legislator, therefore, must question the best instrument to adopt and it is for this reason, essentially, that we have decided to return to the original approach of the text, expunging all the parts that the Chamber has inserted and that aimed at a more repressive intervention of the conducts put in place through the mobbing and the bullization of the net, focusing strongly on the educational character, preventive and, where necessary, reeducational measures that this bill prepares to put in place. It is not a technical measure but essentially a framework, in the sense that it provides a framework within which others will have to move. This is what Parliament needs in this context, which must create the conditions for social actors to network and start working on active policies on this issue. Now, while there is general agreement on the need to intervene on the subject, there are not only in this area, but also in many others - we have also noted in our experience as legislators - at least two different schools of thought on how to do this. There is the school of thought, which we could call repressive and sanctioning, according to which unspeakable behaviors, although often, as happens among teenagers, put in place without the proper awareness of their gravity, must be sanctioned and repressed so that what happened does not happen again. All criminal matters in the broadest sense are inspired by a difficult balance between repressive and educational needs. The second fundamental approach, followed from the beginning by the bill, is the educational one, based on prevention, education, information and the spread of awareness in adolescents and, then, throughout the system that revolves around them of the possible severity of certain behaviors too often assumed with great lightness. From my point of view, this is the fundamental aspect that prompts us to return to an educational logic. Unlike the cases that normally follow the criminal repression, in these cases very often we are not in the presence of the objective element and in most of the subjects there is no perception of the gravity and impact that the acts carried out can have, even leading - unfortunately - to the tragic cases that I mentioned a moment ago of suicides or behavior absolutely dramatic by adolescents. Consequently, an approach based on reeducation, training and awareness on the part of the subjects involved in these phenomena - all in all, they are new, as are the instruments through which they channel themselves - cannot concern the generality of the subjects, but must be limited to the minors for whom the educational function is primary, primary and fundamental and prevails over all the others, especially the repressive one. So here is the conceptual outline within which the proposed reading of new amendments by the Senate is placed. There is the will and awareness to work with particularly sensitive human material such as adolescents and minors, excluding all the criminal aspect and focusing on the educational aspect, limiting the description of the case to bullying through the network, which is another particularly significant point. There are many bullying episodes and most of them, especially when committed by adults against adults, are already subject to possible criminal repression. A further tightening of the sanctioning legislation on bullying in general, even when it comes out of the strictly limited scope of school and children, would make the law too broad to be truly effective. I repeat: there is already a criminal penalty for most bullying behaviors: what is missing is a measure aimed at teenagers in school. After profound reflections, especially within the first permanent Commission, we decided, with a consensus in this very broad and cross-cutting case too, to return - as I said before - to the original approach: via the criminal repressive elements; via the elements related to bullying in general; return to the educational phenomenon limited to children and to the cases of bullying concentrated on the net, which are - believe it - already more than sufficient in numerical terms. Of course, in carrying out the task of returning to the original approach, some improvements introduced by the House of Deputies have been saved, especially with regard to the information campaigns and school contacts that must be present in each school, in order to strengthen the basic approach that we had followed. So, everything that improves and strengthens the school budget system is definitely welcome. And it has been done because - as I said - the repression of adult behavior already exists, both online behavior and especially with regard to bullying in general. The phenomenon itself is not suitable for effective repression. Speaking and comparing ourselves with many operators - I am thinking above all of the courts for minors or the postal police and many other actors involved in this area - we realized the extreme speed of the episodes in question. They are put in place with extraordinary speed, they are wounded very quickly and their repression, in criminal terms, even where possible and where it comes to a positive conclusion, is essentially late and ineffective. Therefore, to insist on repression (even if we are often faced with absolutely dramatic and disgusting cases that would prompt us to think first of all about the need for criminal repression), it would make little sense, would be ineffective and would further clog the judicial system with a mass of potentially infinite cases. And we still do not know how many cases can be that evolve with the evolution of the modern media. Basically, this would not lead to the desired result. An equally important reason for which it was thought to return to the original idea is the very effectiveness of the law: here we are questioning our own role as legislators. The first question that we should always ask ourselves in relation to a legislative measure that is approved is: how does it work, because it is done in a certain way and could not be done in a different way. Well, with regard to this phenomenon, which is - as I said - new in many respects, certainly a measure works not only because Parliament approves it as a law, but this legislation is then brought to life with the collaboration of a whole series of people who revolve around the world of youth and especially social media: I am referring to the necessary collaboration in the first place of schools, interested parties, including their friends and the family, of site managers - it is very important for the darkening and removal of content - of the police forces, and in particular of the postal sector. We, as legislators, if we want to operate in conscience and adopt a law that can serve something, then we need to set in motion a virtuous circle that allows all subjects to move independently within the framework outlined by the law, and not to prescribe individual behaviors and possible sanctions through the law itself, because otherwise this does not go much further. I wanted to say all this in order to explain the reasons for a choice that has been complex, well thought out and - I am pleased to recall this - widely shared within the Commission and I am sure that it will also be so in this House. With this idea and with this message we are going to re-adopt the draft law under consideration by returning to the original spirit of our first decision of now a year and a half ago and we refer it back to the Chamber of Deputies - of course we do not know how long this parliamentary term will last - so that it takes the last step and can draw from this basic inspiration also the will to bring to port a measure that could be one of the important legacy that this Parliament will leave to those who come after. On this occasion, I would like to thank all my colleagues, especially those of the 1st Commission, in which there has always been a very cooperative attitude: the subject is not politically divisive, and I believe that this helps the adoption of a good law. We have had to work hard to return to a text that seems frankly more than acceptable to us and that we are now putting to the attention of this House with the hope of equally broad approval, as was the one at first reading that we did in May 2015. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bernini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination just made by the rapporteur of the measure we are debating today has been deepened. It has retraced not only the deep sense and motivations that led to the first approval in the Senate Chamber of the draft law at the first signature of my colleague Ferrara, but also the significance of the work done in the Chamber of Deputies, the profound modifications that took place in that Chamber and the idea and the awareness that in the third reading at the Senate it was necessary to resume the deep sense that had led to the drafting of the bill, but above all to approve it almost unanimously here in the Senate. As the rapporteur has reminded us, the work of the third reading carried out in recent months in the Senate has been profound and aimed at recovering not only the important changes that could enrich (and indeed have succeeded) the drafting of the first measure, but also the purpose, meaning and objective of the measure as presented at first reading. We are here today, four years after the beginning of a journey that has seen us engaged in the deepening of the phenomenon of cyberbullying and that has produced the present provision. The perception of the phenomenon of cyberbullying has grown over time in the face of so many episodes unfortunately sometimes tragic that they have filled television palimpsests, pages of newspapers; in the same way, among the many involved also has grown awareness of the need for a norm to protect the dignity and rights of children on the net; a norm, therefore, not against the net, but that intends to lay the foundations for building a new principle of digital citizenship. The same bill, in fact, did not and does not want to be repressive, but educational, inclusive and preventive. The commitment was and is to start again from the schools and above all from the students who, throughout the national territory, ask us to give a response to the problems deriving from the unknowing use of the new media, destined to grow together with other phenomena that become forms of dependence from the use of the network. We adults first need to understand the importance of using technology in a positive way, to set a good example in languages and habits for younger people, who look at the world through a screen. The school in this has a fundamental role, as it is called every day to face the most difficult challenge, that of educating the new generations not only to knowledge of basic notions and the transmission of knowledge, but also and above all to respect the founding values of a society, starting from respect and anti-discrimination. In the age of Internet and communication this task becomes even more crucial, a principle that goes hand in hand with the call to team up, from institutions to companies, from law enforcement to parents, passing through the associations that have put so much effort and continue to put on the field. So the Senate Chamber on May 20, 2015 took charge of all these demands. Thanks to a cross-cutting political convergence, the draft law - as the rapporteur said - was adopted almost unanimously. There was also immediate satisfaction from those who had participated in the drafting of the text in the hearings in the Commission, to which was added the support of experts, lawyers, doctors, psychopedagogists and families, as well as of all citizens, who saw the emergence of an instrument for the protection of children online. Even the same companies and the media, for the first time in a decisive way, gave maximum willingness to provide tools and actions to help children: a crucial commitment to the approval of the same legislation. Some of the actions provided for in the norm were also introduced into the guidelines of guidance, prevention and contrast to bullying and cyberbullying emanating from the Ministry of Education, University and Research. Without forgetting that MIUR itself, with Law No 107 of 2015, has introduced the development of the student's digital skills, with particular regard to computational thinking, the critical and conscious use of social networks and media, as well as production and links with the world of work. The commitment of this House has been resumed by the Lazio Region - to mention the important commitment in this sense of some Regions - which has approved a law on bullying that is very inspired by the bill currently under discussion, and by the Lombardy Region, which last Tuesday approved its own legislation on cyberbullying. It too takes its cue from the work carried out at the Senate and adopts strategic measures on the theme of training and awareness raising, without forgetting to counter the conducts, giving support to victims and appropriate care paths to bullies and making available appropriate resources. However, the draft law, at second reading, in Montecitorio, has been amended - the rapporteur said this amply - because in fact the rule has been extended to adults as well and the offence of online stalking has been included. In fact, we know that cyberbullying is already a crime, although it is not typical of it, because today they are dealing with offences present in the penal code. This is what the postal police say in all the meetings they have been promoting all over Italy for years, but in particular the Ministry of Justice says that they are addressing young people to inform them of the crimes they are in without knowing it. On May 7, 2015, a few days after the Senate approval of the norm, Minister Orlando presented an important project that provides for the illustration of the conducts of crime in which easily bullies or bystanders can incur. Again on the theme, on November 3, 2016, a few months ago, a decalogue was presented that saw the collaboration of Facebook and schools involved in creative activities aimed at promoting and facilitating content also through music. It is a project, developed and put on the field by the Ministry of Justice with Facebook, which contains an invitation to reflection, in fact the title of the guide is: Think about it before you share it. Hence, a prevention project comes from the Ministry of Justice with a view to a strategy that creates alliances precisely with digital companies, which must assume their responsibilities. Our own child rule creates the rules for inescapable and effective collaboration. We must therefore all be responsible and put into place the best experience and expertise, as provided for in Article 3 with the establishment of the interministerial table to which all those involved in the phenomenon sit. Only by networking all together, in fact, will we be able to train our children to the challenges of tomorrow and protect them from the dangers of today. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u13	Mr President, the work done in the Commission on this draft law has been important and I particularly thank Senator Palermo, who is the rapporteur, and all the Members of the Commission. I think it is an unusual and commendable fact that we are fighting a negative phenomenon such as cyberbullying (which perhaps could also be called in our language: computer or computer bullying) not with the usual system of doubling, quadrupling or decuplication of the punishments and bureaucratization of anything, an approach unfortunately usual in recent years, but with a prevention approach focused mainly on providing the tools useful to effective interventions. Internet bullying is a phenomenon that has been talked about in the media for tragic events that have occurred to the detriment of people generally young, very young or otherwise fragile and is linked to the problem of the difficulty that is encountered when trying to remove content of a certain type from the network. This removal will still be difficult, even once this bill has been passed (which I hope the House will not change again), but it is very useful to have at least the tools to be able to intervene quickly and effectively in many cases; certainly, not in all cases. It is not by chance that the bill also provides for awareness-raising, in particular towards students, young people, who are those who, even more than being exposed, expose themselves more in this field, reminding them that a written or more frequently a photo posted on the Internet then are extremely difficult to eliminate and, despite the tools that this bill will provide, this difficulty remains, so an education and awareness in this sense is very important. There had already been information campaigns in the past, as well as television ads, certainly positive, but the phenomenon remains because the thirst for protagonism or the lightness with which you publish jokey photos - or even a little more than jokey - is frequent and then, after who knows how long - years, if not decades - to a person who wants to aspire to certain roles, in private or in the public, will be shown some embarrassing photos of when he was twelve, fourteen or twenty years old. I therefore find this approach particularly commendable, not based on unreasonable and usually unworkable repressions, but on specific and punctual interventions that make all those who operate on the net responsible, especially those who do so by managing sites or pages on social networks. It is not necessary to limit freedom of expression on the Internet, just as it is not necessary to do so in the press, in radio broadcasting and broadcasting, but this does not mean that an act that is committed outside the Internet is a crime, if done through the network it must be protected from any intervention in the name of the freedom of the network itself. If defamation and violation of privacy are punished, they must be punished regardless of the means by which they are put in place. In this case, however, we are faced with a phenomenon that very hardly constitutes a crime or that, however, even when it is recognized as a crime, is very difficult to fight with ordinary instruments. We must therefore provide the tools, first of all to limit the damage, because more than getting exemplary punishments, perhaps after who knows how many years, to the detriment of people who in the meantime have changed, so the penalty no longer has any real function, we must protect the dignity of people, in particular of young people and the very young people who find themselves exposed in this way. The phenomenon of bullying, intimidation, harassment of people has, unfortunately, always been very widespread among young people, on school benches; the network, however, greatly amplifies it, so something that was previously spread among a few dozen people, today is potentially spread among millions of people. That is why we need specific instruments. The other branch of Parliament, taken from the enthusiasm, to the bill approved by the Senate also added the phenomenon of bullying, extending enormously the field and introducing a series of behaviors with very vague definitions, which made ineffective the part on which we had focused and the argument on which the bill was born and had been drawn up in the Commission and then in the Chamber here in the Senate. By introducing such vague behaviors, there was, yes, the risk of limiting freedom and excessive interventionism, as well as an objective so vast that it was very difficult to achieve. Therefore, the Commission has done well to return - through many of the rapporteur's amendments, which I believe have been unanimously voted on - to the initial approach, which has its effect. If then the other branch of Parliament or this will intervene on the phenomenon of bullying in general, it is appropriate, orderly and effective to do so separately, with another bill. I remember that in these years the numbering of the laws that we find at the end of the year, which is usually attributed to the budget law, as it is called today, or to what is traditionally the last provision of the year, namely the decree of extension of the terms, was attested to below 200, while there were years when the approved laws reached 1,000 or 1,500, not to mention the time when they exceeded 2,000, which was that of the dictatorship, in which there was a great legislative efficiency, to which frankly - as I hope all of us - I do not aspire. However, the fact that a bill must necessarily be composed of dozens of articles in order to be worthy of approval I think is negative, because it prevents those many punctual interventions that are necessary and solve small problems. They are small problems, but in the meantime we begin to solve those, the big ones, the government bills, the epochal ones, that start with great ambitions and do not always reach the goal (it is hoped that sometimes they will reach it). Here we limit the matter and try to protect the children, and not only, for the truth: let us try to protect the goodness of the people, in the context of an Internet that must be free, expression of freedom and pluralism of opinion, a precious instrument that, however, cannot be used to destroy the reputation or even the personality of individuals, particularly the weak ones, which, unfortunately, has tragic results. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u14	She's registered to speak Senator Idem. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to discuss at third reading draft law No 1261, which contains provisions for preventing and combating the phenomena of cyberbullying, which has undergone extensive changes in the transition to the House, which have distorted its approach. I would like to remind you today that, when I spoke in general debate at first reading, I had already pointed out the merit of the first signatory of this bill, Senator Ferrara, of proposing approaches and solutions that take intimate account of the subject to which we approach as legislators. It is essential, in fact, the intention of the original bill to address minors, therefore girls and boys growing, to educate, support and not criminalize with respect to the behaviors that this law aims to counter. The initial approach, therefore, rightly took into account a line that the legislator has adopted since 1991, the year in which the Convention on the Rights of the Child was accepted, which underlines the need to adopt specific laws for children, namely to adopt instruments of protection aimed at guaranteeing those fundamental rights of childhood and adolescence, an approach from which the need to combat with specific provisions the phenomenon of cyberbullying, which records data in constant and worrying growth, even among very young children, is also reflected. No wonder, therefore, the decision taken in the first Commission to go back to the text voted by Montecitorio, repealing, for example, Article 8 of the Camera version, which introduced an amendment in the penal code to the stalking crime, and restoring Article 7, as thought in the first version. The basic intention on which this choice is based seems to me to be this: we need clear legislation to protect minors and the incidents of which, through the network, they can be victims, considering that, speaking of them, the approach should not be extremely punitive towards the perpetrators of illegal acts, but primarily of a re-educational-cultural nature. I want to go back to why it is so important to have specific laws for minors. It is because they - I repeat - are not small adults, but adults in the making, assimilating and translating models that we adults propose to them. That is why, as long as they are growing, our task is to educate and correct patterns of behavior that they have learned by observing and consuming patterns that we have built and in which we have immersed them. For this reason, I will never tire of talking about the task that affects every adult, each one of us, starting from this law and beyond it. Today we are motivated to want to be part of the solution and this also obliges us to self-observation, in order never to be part of the problem through offensive behaviors and damaging people's dignity. There is another thing that each of us can do: we can ask ourselves how free we are from the influence of moral judgments on the victims. What can a minor learn about the sentence that Tiziana Cantone received in response to her complaint accusing her ex-boyfriend of having released their own video hard on the net? A sentence gave you the right about the charge, except then to charge you with the costs of the trial. Certainly it was not the judge's intention to make a moral judgment, but its effects were those: Tiziana, after the pronunciation, took her life, destroyed by the echo spread on the web by those who, even before the trial and with more force after, claimed that, after all, she had gone looking for it. This lack of empathy, this indifference, this moral judgment towards the victims of cyberbullying can also provide an alibi to the perpetrators of violence who are still minor and that is why we are all called upon to support the victims and not condemn them. I would just like to make a brief mention of the fact that the theme of cyberbullying overlaps in part with that of gender violence, which is also the result of the sexual objectivity of women who characterize the images of too many content spread by the media and the web. We must realise that our society and our culture are still a construction site and this is a call for each of us to act and propose responsible models, especially in the face of young people. With this law we want, first of all, to contribute to the formation, education of these young people, our future adults, so that they become people who act with empathy, users responsible for the web and aware that a click, made in the privacy of a room, can have a global echo with dramatic consequences. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u16	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been mentioned, today we are examining a measure which comes from the House and will be amended. The bill, approved on 20 September in Montecitorio, was presented by my colleague Senator and teacher Ferrara. You are the teacher of a victim, Carolina Pisicchio, the molested girl on social networks and with text messages before jumping off a balcony. The girl had written a letter, which reads: Why is that? Bullying, that's all. Words hurt more than beatings (...) It doesn't matter what language it is. Carolina's father, Paolo, who fights and continues to go to schools with her colleague Elena and with many of us, says and remembers: The net, if used badly, pierces your soul. We have chilling data, which have been remembered, but we must not stop repeating them especially to children, educators, parents and adults. According to data from Skuola net, CENSIS and Polpost, 6 percent of teenagers and preteens in Italy are victims of cyberbullying; 11 percent have attempted suicide; 50 percent of victims are self-harmful and have thought of suicide; 77 percent of our garrisons tell us that they believe that bullying is more frequent on the web. But we are not in the year zero: we have a good law, law 107 of 2015, so-called good school, which includes a whole series of articles that help this bill. Among the objectives I want to mention in particular active and democratic citizenship, which enhances intercultural education, respect for differences, dialogue between cultures. If in fact, as the rapporteur, Senator Palermo, has said, we must form and educate, we must have instruments that are agile and fast and therefore the assumption of responsibility, solidarity, awareness of rights and duties, (yes, because there are rights but also duties), knowledge of the legal matter and then also legality. It is very important, because it is necessary to develop behaviors that are responsible, inspired by knowledge and respect for legality, environmental sustainability, heritage and then digital skills. Here we are: this is an argument that did not exist a few years ago. I am now at the end of my career, this year I will retire after 42 years of teaching in school and at the beginning of my career I did not have these problems, because digital skills were not foreseen, now they must be introduced. Among the objectives to be pursued, therefore, there is also the development of students' digital skills, with regard to computational thinking, the critical and conscious use of social networks and media, as well as production and links with the world of work. The prevention and the contrast to cyberbullying pass through the contrast to the school dispersion and to all forms of discrimination and bullying, but we need resources and resources there are and have already been placed within the law of good school, speech carried out - I remember - by Senator Giannini, then minister, even with a good stakeout of resources: 40 million euros for all school paths, thanks to which the principals and school councils can choose independently, in the presence of a clamored discomfort or repeated episodes, to allocate resources just where necessary, therefore also to the fight and the prevention of cyberbullying; then 1 billion euros for the national plan of the digital school, which provides training to the critical use of the instrument through the preparation, a strong investment on teachers, that are those that must convey things. Already in the previous speech, however, I mentioned one particularly important aspect: responsibility, not only for children, but also for us adults, especially teachers. We are faced with a social phenomenon, as we have said, which has also revolutionized the way we communicate. It's a social plague like there are so many others right now. Like ludopathy, about which we spoke yesterday also cyberbullying is a phenomenon that has had a surge and then we ask ourselves: do we need a law that regulates and sanctions, that makes guilty those who are guilty of these behaviors? We must defeat this plague, eradicate a deviance that softens our children and our teenagers, who are digital natives unlike us, who are digital immigrants, but are unable to react to the dangers of the network that can threaten our children from an early age. I remember talking about a problem, which emerged from a research carried out in the United States, relating to two-year-olds, even one and a half years old, who already interact with the iPad and with the smartphone: they are able to use two-year applications. This is a big problem, because their growth must be accompanied, physical growth, but also growth in this path. Therefore, regardless of the law, we need a general review of conscience, our conscience, the conscience of us educators and the conscience of us adults. We must realise that there is a generation of genetically modified children. They have something more: they have ears, all our senses, but they have an extra prosthesis that is the smartphone, that is the iPad, that puts them in contact, and they always have it, day and night, they sleep with the smartphone, they live there and always want the latest cell phone. It's a propagdine. The youngsters, however, are increasingly struggling to understand the difference between role-playing and reality: accustomed to a continuous zapping, to constantly changing movement and role, they then think that that is reality. Soccer is often experienced inside the smartphone. The games I used to play as a child with my classmates, they make them virtually and are dazzled by the glory and will to follow a like, a friendship, a fraction of celebrity on the web. They also videotape; there is this race, this bulimia to appear. They sprout on the bikes showing the odometer and then they post it all, it all gets viral. Or they are videotaped on the occasion of provocative and provocative attitudes, and sex in this case is the master: then come the blackmails and really incredible situations. We must educate our children to a privilege, to be different and to understand the positivity of inequality. We have to go back to being authoritative: the kids and the kids must have tracks on which they have to run and we have to say no sometimes, some things you don't have to and you can't do. There must be, also on the part of society, a form that in this case is very poor: inhibition. Sometimes you need to understand that adults don't like certain behaviors; maybe as a child you don't understand it, but then some actions you don't do because you're afraid, you're modest. You have to have respect. In all this, adults, schools, the Postal Police and the Carabinieri play, which I thank for the punctual action that they do not of repression, but of prevention also within the school, following a path also of research. I also remember Save the Children, the Blue Phone and all the associations that deal with prevention. Therefore, to prevent and train children who are adults aware, grown up with this device that unfortunately - unfortunately I say as an educator - is also given to children of the primary school, who in the folder and backpack have the smartphone and do not know that risks run when they respond to certain stresses and get excited when they see that there are positive responses to behaviors that we know are absolutely to be repressed. Thank you, Mr President. Thanks again to those who have very much wanted to take this measure forward, which will be a useful tool not only for schools, which have already formed a large network and are working very well, but also for all educators. Finally, a reflection for us adults: let's get used to saying sometimes some no to our children and our grandchildren. Not everything is lawful. There are rights, there are duties, and there are rules that we must participate in, and so must children. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u18	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u19	Mr President, I too would like to express a very special thanks to my colleagues who have dealt with this draft law, in particular to my colleague, Mr Ferrara, who has strongly wanted to do so and pursued it with determination, for the reasons already expressed, together with the rapporteur, Mr Palermo and all those who have contributed to this result. I want to say this at the beginning of my speech: we are never totally proud, but I think we can be relatively proud, as legislators, to pass yet another law in the wake of political-legislative activity that arises, particularly in this legislature, from the desire to fill legislative and legal gaps with respect to the rights of citizens less protected than others, whether they are minor, disabled, female, homosexual. In this wake we approve this bill, well aware that only one law will not be able to solve everything, even in this case: even the best of the laws, as we often say, does not offer total guarantee, but together with the legislation, must be accentuated a knowledge, a general culture, because the reprobation of society must grow with respect to abuse and lack of respect. Solidarity must also grow, let me tell you. This morning, the dramatic video of a 22-year-old boy, a black refugee, who decided to commit suicide in Venice, went viral. Someone shouted "Africa, Africa!" instead of trying to help him, and this clearly can only be reprehensible and leave us grieved. It is our job, of the whole of society, of the families and of the school to put everything possible into practice so that such events do not happen. Cyberbullying, which we are dealing with today, is an intimidating, violent, vulgar practice whereby the individual or, even worse, the group attack an individual, a victim, who becomes prey and is gradually isolated from the social context. It enjoys, through the web, the anonymity, given by the nicknames, that leave the identities covered, to the disadvantage of victims who no longer have peace. Another of the determining elements of this cruelty is its infinite character: that brutality procrastinates to infinity and, up to this provision, it was difficult to erase its matrix on the web. Women, homosexuals, children are the most frequent victims on the web. That is why we do not want the network to be anarchy, where the weaker subjects succumb in the name of a totally fictitious freedom, which looks much like cruelty. The network, with this set of rules, begins to have antibodies, but it is necessary to have all the tools to distinguish situations and to recognize competent sources from sources that are not. It is necessary to face up to the theme of the net, even within the cultural challenge of equalization, in order to stop all forms of abuse and violence among the genres. There is a video, still in these hours, in which are represented two apples, identical outside, red, turgid, mature, beautiful; the first is perfect even internally, while the second has deep bruises, which the deterioration more and more, until it shows, even physically, its suffering. Despite that initial external normality, then, we have two reverse processes. I find the example very significant of the enormity of the damage that persecution, a fear that perpetuates itself, a computer stalking cause in weaker subjects, especially minor ones, too often deprived of personal defence tools and therefore exposed to any risk in relation to their psychophysical health. All this often becomes unacceptable and even leads to suicide, death. I think we're doing a good thing today. I hope that the House of Deputies will very quickly define this measure. It will then be up to all of us, as previous speakers have said, to carry out this important general information action in schools and beyond. Thank you so much. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u20	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u21	Mr President, the phenomenon of cyberbullying is becoming a worrying social scourge of difficult qualification and particularly sensitive, since the victims are mainly young and very young. Recent reports report the case of children and teenagers victims of their own peers, who use intimate images, downloaded from the network and then donated for their own shots. This has done nothing but create serious psychological disorders for children and many of them have attempted suicide. These cases are unfortunately on the agenda. Many of these actions are somehow controlled by the Postal Police and are blocked. However, they are daily facts, with a continuous growth of cyberbullying that is now on the agenda, with the use of WhatsApp and Telegram. We are now talking about a slime that emerges, which, with total absurdity involves everyone and not just kids. What's going on? Although technology is functional, it is absolutely impossible to block and lacks the education, training and knowledge that should be achieved at school. Despite the law on good school, which intervenes on strengthening, in the reality of the facts there are still teachers who cannot carry out their work because they are teachers parked in the classroom and do not know what to do, although they are professors of philosophy or psychology who could help to do a serious job on education. Now will come the decrees delegated: who knows, we hope that somehow these decrees help us to give value to education and training. In the bill on cyberbullying, absolutely useful to give awareness also of what is happening in reality, it is explained, in article 3, paragraph 7, that the corresponding funds are removed from the reserve and special funds of the mission "Sounds to be shared" of the state of forecast of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. This means that funds are being used that were planned for integration, work on disability and the work that school teachers and educators have to do inside the school. I wonder, then, do we really want this to change? Do we really want real and functional attention to the education system, or not? If you continue to work on systems without, however, in the end, there are funds and the possibility of spending, how can you really train the teacher and the school manager? We still have school leaders who, terribly and almost sadly, say: I didn't expect this to happen in my school! We can't hear that at all anymore. We must really focus on the training phase. It is true, as the rapporteur, Mr Palermo, says (which I thank for reporting the text, which had been altered to the House of Deputies, to an idea of prevention), that a functional prevention must be carried out at school. However, what is really missing is the desire to do, because we cannot untie this bill from everything within the school and the postal police system, subject, the latter, to a real dismantling. This, too, is a reality that we must acknowledge and be aware of. What sense, then, to think of being able to carry out a system and change it, to shoulder this responsibility and to propose change, if then, with the text of the provision on good school, we see that the strengthening does not serve, or rather, is humiliated in some way, as the teachers are humiliated, not being given the opportunity to do their job? What is the point if the funds are missing, because it is a continuous shift of money from one side to the other, especially when the same funds are used for both integration and training? I wonder, therefore, what responsibility, as parliamentarians and as people, must we assume in relation to this reality? I should like to conclude by saying that, as my colleague said, much depends on us as parents, educators and teachers, but it must be added that as legislators we have a responsibility now and it is to carry out a text of law that is balanced and functional to the present needs. Therefore, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and for the changes made to the draft law in our examination. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Palermo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u22	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are dealing with today at the third reading, first signed by my colleague, Senator Ferrara, who I have convincedly signed in the original text, fills a regulatory vulnus on the important and delicate issue of cyberbullying, which unfortunately, in recent years, has seen a dramatic and worrying increase. The Commission has done well to bring the proposal back to its initial spirit and to focus and bring back the text on children and cyberbullying. The original text, in fact, defines the phenomenon of cyberbullying and identifies it with those aggressive and intentional actions carried out through the distorted use of new technologies, actions carried out by a single person, that is, as often happens, by a group of people, boys, who want to hit a peer unable to defend themselves. It is essential to enter the phenomenon, as cyberbullying makes real what is virtual and therefore, in fact, real is not. This regulatory intervention, in the text which the Commission has hesitated to adopt, contains very important new developments, offering a legislative framework that allows young people and adults to rely on the most necessary protection and regulatory reference. As has already been widely pointed out, the use of the Internet is now crucial to immediately have news and connect to every part of the world. When I was a child, teenager and student, the research was done on books, also going to the library, a place that allowed comparison, socialization and sharing. With the advent of the Internet the possibility of acquiring information is immediate, with a click we can know everything, and even if the terms used today, such as "sharing" and "socialization" are the same as then, all this happens without being able to look into the eyes. As with any technological innovation that represents a means of improving life, it is the use that is made of the medium that determines its advantage or damage and the web does not escape this elementary rule. In the case of distorted use, and therefore in cases of cyberbullying, it is precisely the immediacy that exposes the victim to uncontrolled and uncontrollable media mortifications and humiliations. The term cyberbullying - relatively recent - is a neologism that indicates the phenomenon of aggression by a subject called cyberbully that, on the network and mainly through social networks, hits the victim through the spread of denigratory material (texts, photos and images) or the creation of groups against. It has been pointed out several times, also in this Assembly, that the phenomenon is linked to the increasing use of new media among children and preteens, defined as digital natives. The network is in fact, in many cases, a place outside the control of adults and, unfortunately, also of the children themselves, some of whom carry out real violent, denigratory and discriminatory actions against peers perceived different in terms of physical aspect, clothing, sexual orientation, social class or because foreigners and, unfortunately, in many cases as suffering from disabilities. The phenomenon of cyberbullying has long been known in its gravity. It has emerged that two thirds of Italian minors recognize in cyberbully the main threat that hangs over them and that, precisely because of the nature of the medium used, has no boundaries of time and space: from school benches to their own room, to the football field, day and night. For many of them cyberbullying also compromises school performance. The news also testifies to facts that have seen the involvement of young teenagers, unfortunately confirming what emerged in the investigations carried out. Even from facts of news and stories lived directly in the first person, my colleague Ferrara took inspiration and strongly wanted this text in its original formulation. There are also several studies that show how the most critical issues in the prevention and protection of personal data (because of this we propose to speak in this text) and of contrast to the criminal use of the network are found just when it comes to children and young people. Cyberbullying stems from a youthful condition briefly enclosed in the definition of juvenile discomfort. Nowadays, defining and restricting the phenomenon of juvenile and juvenile discomfort is not simple, because the phenomenon follows and sometimes precedes the complex dynamics in today's society, where the growing global, economic, social, valueal difficulties, the loss of strong, safe, long-lasting bonds, primarily affect children, children, the first victims of an epochal change that has not yet found or found firm points and strong relational relationships between the various components of society. The forms that the child's discomfort takes are multiple, in relation to a large number of variables: the territorial context in which we operate, the place of intervention, the characteristics of the child and the intervention strategy. The widespread difficulty of relationship with peers and adults is transversal to different socio-economic belongings and assumes the forms of bullying, individualism that can degenerate into isolation, emotional anesthesia and lack of empathic ability, difficulty of communication with peers and relationship with the adult. The problem of widespread discomfort is not only of minors: often, indeed, the malaise of children is the alarm bell that reveals the difficulties of families, the local community, the institutions. In fact, not uncommonly, at the root of the bullying behaviors of children there is a poor family climate or because it is too permissive and tolerant or because it is too coercive. Effective prevention should be developed through proper parental co-responsibility. In this context, in times when the external stresses, real and virtual, subject the minors to an ever faster, increasingly contrasting and sometimes contradictory course, it becomes a priority to recover that implicit and virtuous bond between family and school, between aggregational activities and sport, a bond that seems broken and difficult to re-connect, but that can be the real key of time to protect and overcome the thousand aspects of child discomfort to which our children are subjected today. The school must also consider this problem as its own and the law n. 107 of 2015 has partially addressed this problem and certainly cannot do it alone and needs significant help from the community in which it is included in order to be able to implement those strategies of clarification and recovery, both towards aggressive children changing their behavior, and towards the victims children helping them to cope with the abuses. This, operating both on the individual level on the children involved through interviews with them and with their parents, and working on the collective level through meetings in the classroom, an appropriate use of films and literary works, theatrical representations involving emotionally. If the family is the first social, educational, valuable, emotional and psychological place, not of secondary importance is the school, which is the place where children and adolescents spend most of their time, where they learn to socialize with others who are not members of their family. In this sense, together with the family, it constitutes the second lung inside and through which the children learn to breathe, live and relate. School discomfort, therefore, is an aspect of youth discomfort that can manifest itself in various ways, including behaviours of disorder in class, restlessness, hyperactivity, learning difficulties and attention, difficulty of integration in the group, poor motivation, low performance, abandonment, school dispersal. Therefore, the urgency of the prevention and control action is absolute; and that is what the text under consideration provides. The school has a strategic role to give adequate answers to the problem of cyberbullying and any form of overwhelming perpetrated on the net. The State and the Ministry of Education, in particular, have the essential task of supporting any initiative that can provide educational operators and teachers with all the psychological, legal and social tools to prevent, reduce and combat the new forms of prevarication and youth violence and to develop and validate methodologies that serve as support for young people in assessing the risks of online navigation. We must all feel fully called to help each other, to grow to help our children to do so; But in order to do so effectively, we adults must learn to listen to the voice and above all the silence of our children. This draft law is, in this sense, an important instrument and for this reason I thank my colleague, Mrs Ferrara, who has proposed it with great determination and generosity, and I hope that the House will fire the text, as proposed, as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u24	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u25	Mr President, first of all we need to say a few words about the method of this bill. The fact that there is still an equal bicameralism, widely confirmed, allowed the second examination of the Senate to arrive at a text certainly more balanced and concrete than the one approved by the House. We have basically returned to the initial text of the Senate, with the acceptance of some changes of common sense introduced by the House. There was a risk of manifest norms, that the wisdom of the senators was able to avoid. The theme is very delicate, because it concerns the most fragile and most vulnerable subjects; it is estimated that two out of five children are affected, while four out of ten children are witnesses of cyberbullying on the net. I would like to start from this: who are cyberbulls? They are children between the ages of ten and sixteen, perhaps even with an image of good students, with a computer skills certainly high and often with the inability to assess the seriousness of the actions carried out online. Basically, cyberbully uses the Internet to do what it doesn't have the courage to do, for example, as it used to be, in the backyard of the school. Thus, cyberbully and its victim often meet at school or gyms in the afternoon. Often these actions take place during the recreation break. (at 10.57 a.m.) (Following RIZZOTTI). The phenomenon is very serious, because in a very short time the victims see their image damaged and often the parents and teachers remain unaware of it, because they do not have access to the network of their children students. We have often seen how shame can lead to suicide. The behavior of cyberbully is often to replace the most shy classmates and to spread in their name, on the network or on social groups confidential images or sexual behaviors. It is obvious that, being "normal" children, when they are discovered their attitude is often of astonishment, followed, perhaps, by shame for what they have done and tears. Those who compare with these themes have recorded that, of course, as age grows, even behaviors become more vexing. We are faced with attitudes, carried out on social media, that recall abuse or insults, that is the attitudes of bullies of real life. Victims often suffer greatly from reading insults, or from certain vexing attitudes, but are ashamed to report them. Therefore, in the face of such delicate situations, simple rules must be adopted, that are written with great balance; provisions that frame the phenomenon in its real scope and that act not only on cyberbulls, but on the system of family and school education, beginning to teach children the sensitivity to feelings and sometimes even the modesty of their feelings. All teenage emotions, such as the birth of sympathy, must not be shared socially and on a media level. Even the date of the first sexual intercourse is online! These are nothing but weapons supplied to those who want to humiliate the victims. Children should also be informed of the possible consequences of spreading information online and also of the criminal consequences of cyberbullying. The text moves, therefore, without having absolute certainty on how to deal with the phenomenon, which is very complex, so much so that in the engraving it is said: "the present law sets itself the objective of countering the phenomenon of cyberbullying" even if then the definition of cyberbullying is very detailed in the next paragraph. The primary objective of the law remains, above all, to protect the dignity of the minor subject of vexation. However, some of the provisions in the text can help young people to find courage in denouncing and identifying a path out of the nightmare. The first protection is to remove of empire images or data that damage the child. At the same time, education and awareness-raising standards, especially in schools, can work on the ground of preventing new cases of cyberbullying. So, beyond the ministerial tables, also provided for by this law that often, we know, leave the time they find, what can really be useful is the raising of awareness in school and family. In this sense it is important that teachers are identified in each school to coordinate initiatives to prevent, above all, as well as counter, any acts of cyberbullying. Similarly, it is important to support projects and ideas in schools in order to promote education for a conscious use of the network and rights, but also for duties related to the use of computer technologies. The same awareness can be adopted by the territorial services, engaging, in activities of social utility, the minor architects of conduct to the detriment of other children. In the conduct of cyberbulls there are attitudes that could in any case limit the crime, but in this our penal code is already well equipped, so it would be enough to use the means already available to us. There was no need, therefore, for new cases of crime or aggravating for pre-existing cases, it was necessary to frame the phenomenon in its real dimension. In this sense, even the institute of warning on the part of the quaestor may be that useful substitute for the reproach that the family has not been able to carry out effectively, indeed, often the family members are the first defenders of the minor who has committed these acts, judging them as simple bribes without considering the consequences for the victims. In fact, after all, behind every cyberbully there is, in all probability, an educational shortage or a family discomfort not understood, but we must not fall into the error of considering the victims of the torturers themselves. The instruments identified by this bill (which, I would like to repeat, the wisdom of the senators has brought back towards more balanced and concrete norms) can be a good test for dealing with and solving the problem. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to make a non-formal thank you to the rapporteur who, in my opinion, has made an appropriate introduction, full of information and important, a thank you to be extended also to all colleagues who have, up to now, expressed themselves with considerations that I broadly agree with. This allows me to make some reflections - not to repeat things already said - that may be of a more general nature, but that I believe are nevertheless important. In this bill that we are going to approve today, the need to stress not the sanctioning-punitive aspect in order to address the problem, but the educational aspect has been highlighted. I believe that educating and not punishing is the right strategy for such phenomena; but to educate it is also necessary to understand. At least three aspects must be understood: firstly, the size of the phenomenon. From this point of view, many elements have already been highlighted; I myself would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the dossier prepared by the offices, which highlights truly dramatic data. It appears, in fact, that more than one out of two young Italians, between eleven and seventeen years of age, has been in some way the object of offensive behavior: we are talking about a national average of more than 52 percent. This gives the feeling of a phenomenon as great as, in some respects, unknown. The dimensions are very high and are related to the growth and diffusion of the technological tools available today: PC, tablet, mobile phones, which clearly until a few years ago were not there, which today are used in a way that was perhaps not easily predictable, but that in fact have become instruments of offensive behaviour and mutual aggression. The draft law under examination highlights, in Article 1, what are these behaviors: attitudes that induce one or more victims to have feelings of anxiety, fear, isolation, marginalization; vexation, physical and psychological pressure or violence; incitement to suicide or self-harm, threats or blackmail; theft or damage; offense or derision for reasons of language, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, physical appearance, disability or other personal and social conditions of the victim. It is a terrifying list: it is disturbing to know that half of the Italian youth population is systematically in contact with such behaviors. I believe that we cannot fail to ask ourselves what society we are, little by little, building: what will be the women and men of tomorrow, if they pass through this furnace of violence, intolerance, terrible mutual aggression? Moreover, it is necessary to understand that the authors of the intimidation are in turn, more often than not, of minors: therefore, the phenomenon is not attributable to the vision of the ogre against the young victim. They are often young people who use violence against other young people, children who attack other children. This must lead us to a third effort of understanding, in addition to that of the dimension and nature of these aggressions: to understand the reasons for this situation. I believe that, as much as we can stigmatize - and should do so - such violent use of the network, a terrible use of these instruments, we must avoid a mere moralistic approach that puts the good on one side and the bad on the other, because it is not a sufficient and adequate approach. In fact, I believe that the roots of this situation are deeper and find their own sap in a culture of violence deeply diffused in our society, which is today considered to be in some way normal. In my opinion, there should be a call to collective responsibility and it is not only the material authors of these acts of intimidation, of cyberbullying, a responsibility that only weighs heavily on them. In fact, unfortunately, it is partly a responsibility of all of us. We should have the intellectual honesty to understand that we are all part of the problem and therefore we must also be involved in the solution. If we - and I say we as politicians, cultural operators and media and educational actors - were able to become operators of a different culture and promote it, then perhaps it would be possible to introduce corrective elements and antibodies into our society in which we could find a way of salvation. I am extremely concerned, because I see that there are two, perhaps three, great frailties in this affair. The first is that of the same members of the pack: cyberbullying, in fact, is practiced in a group; one does not simply have one individual against another, but often a group of people who are fierce against the perceived subject as the weakest element. In turn, however, all the members of the pack are a sum of fragility, which lean on each other with attitudes of violence and aggression towards another, in order to find a force that is actually missing. When one goes to interview, question and hear the protagonists of these violence, one discovers individual fragility, immaturity and unawareness that are equally astonishing. This is a phenomenon that we cannot fail to deal with when we talk about cyberbullying, because even these people - whom I do not want to call victims, a word that seems inappropriate to me - are part of the disease we are dealing with. Then there is the aspect of the victim who suffers these attacks: I am very struck by the theme of silence, because the victim suffers in silence and, as we have seen, does not find the strength to rebel, if not with the extreme rebellion, of an act of self-injury, which can even lead to suicide. I believe that this is a demonstration of an extreme gesture of revolt towards a system that is thought not to be able to change in any way. Whoever comes to the conclusion that there is no other solution but to take his own life does so, I believe, also as an act of accusation against not only the direct persecutors, but also that adult world that is unable to notice that drama or to take any measure of support or any kind of help, listening, promotion or reception towards those who are experiencing an individual tragedy, which is experienced personally without being manifested, except in the dramatic and disturbing letters that are left to us. I believe that the draft law under consideration has this, important: it offers a perspective, a safe harbour, a safe port at the moment when it provides a path and a group of reflections; it renounces the truly sanctioning perspective, as we have said, but instead it anticipates a work of people who put themselves together and foresee a programming. In this respect, I would like to point out that a few days ago the Lombardy Region also introduced a new regional rule, which identifies in the report an important point, in my opinion: It is necessary to intervene through a complex and structured long-term programming, which necessarily involves the active participation of the family, the school community and the institutions of the territory, in a perspective of co-responsibility, co-design and sharing of the value base. I believe that this is the way forward and that we must certainly appeal to school workers, to families and also to associations, to the world of volunteering and to young people themselves, who must be called to become protagonists of a different society, appealing to their best forces, energies and intelligences. Therefore, young people are also part of the solution and we cannot all get out of the question by approving this law because it is not enough and we must try to put together, as I mentioned in my speech, a whole series of elements that create a different culture, acceptance, taste of difference and mutual acceptance. Without this, I fear that this rule may also be a very partial solution, although it is absolutely necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make brief comments pending the explanations of vote. In my view, this draft law represents a moment of redemption for this House when it takes over the whole process. This bill, in fact, fired a year and a half ago by the Senate, has undergone substantial changes by the Chamber of Deputies. We believe that this Assembly, also because it is made up of people who make available the experience gained with the age that belongs to the legal system of the Senate, can favor a good bill. I therefore welcome the work done in the Commission and the work of the rapporteur. There was a lack of cyberbullying to the complex world of conditioning, which is precisely bullying and which already sanctions the law. There was a lack of a strong awareness on the part of society, which today is strongly called to intervene. I completely agree with the title of the bill when it speaks of prevention, of conflict and we also add education. The educational part implies for society and, therefore, for the legislator the need to ensure educational areas, of a professional and experiential nature, which give the network no longer a connotation of negativity as of serenity for anyone who navigates there. The network, the object of this bill, would have been classified as a hot means of communication, as television was almost exclusively so until a few decades ago. It would have included it in this classification between cold media and hot media a communication theorist like Marshall McLuhan. If he lived, he would have said that the Internet is a hot medium because it can arouse emotions, because it is a pervasive tool of everyday life and of our lives. For these reasons cum wheat salt should be used. In fact, as a colleague said, the network, if used badly, can pierce your soul. This happens in the subjects targeted by cyberbullying, a perforation of the soul, a strong conditioning of the personality and reputation of boys and girls, adolescents and young people who are victims of these pernicious actions. The network is an area in which we are paying years of anarchy, disinterest, nihilism, superficiality and, in particular, sleep of reason. We are only waking up now, but let's do it by firing a good law that puts our kids in a position to deal with the phenomenon, that makes sure that when they click to share a content, they do it with full consciousness and awareness. The network could be defined today as an area of clash of civilizations, generations, cultures and mentality. For these reasons, we believe that action should be taken soon, indeed immediately. Our country, and in particular our young people, are confidently waiting for Parliament to fire good laws and this can probably be so, if we consider approving some of the amendments that we have tabled, in order to prevent them from coming out of the window as much as they have been kicked out of the main door. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u30	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u31	Mr President, this draft law aims to combat the phenomenon of cyberbullying in all its forms and for all the actors involved, be they the victims or those responsible for wrongdoing. This is a regulatory intervention to protect children in particular, but outside the criminal field. The means by which this problem develops is the Internet, which has certainly opened up new possibilities for all of us, but the other side of the coin is represented by the risks linked to the misuse of this instrument, among which there is cyberbullying. Bullying and cyberbullying are two sides of the same coin, which clearly bring to light the media issues that we did not even know we had to analyze before. More and more are being talked about issues related to new technologies. The Internet has opened up new possibilities for all of us, especially for young people, but it can also pose a serious risk for the new generations in the event of misuse, as cyberbullying can be - a term adapted by English, of which we sometimes seem unable to get rid - that puts our children at serious risk. For young people who are growing up and who are in an adolescent phase (maybe even normal and quiet) and are always in contact with these new technologies, the distinction between online and offline life is really minimal. The activities that young people carry out online through the technological media often result also in their real life and online lives influence the way offline kids behave, with different relapses, which you need to consider in order to understand cyberbullying. This is a very serious phenomenon, because in a very short time the victims can see their reputation damaged within a very large community, also because the contents, once published, can reappear on several occasions in completely different places in a hundredth of a second, maybe on the other side of the world. Often parents and teachers remain in the dark for a long time, since it is not easy for children to confront adults, who often do not even have access to communication tools, while we know how good teenagers these days are with new technologies. It can therefore be a long time before a case of cyberbullying comes to light. The Lombardy Region legislator, for example, has already allocated 300,000 euros in 2017 for the fight against bullying and cyberbullying to agencies and associations dedicated to countering the phenomenon, also establishing the Regional Council on bullying at the Junta. It seems to me to be a great deal of attention to the social issue and to everything that concerns the protection and protection of the weakest. It is an example that should already put the House in a position to adopt this bill quickly, because it will certainly be subject to a fourth examination by the House, which will examine the changes we have made. It must be said that the amendments made to the Commission have certainly improved the text. I would like to recall what Senator Rizzotti said, saying that this time perfect bicameralism has done a good job. We were inspired by the work done in the Lombardy Region, with the allocation of EUR 300,000 for this problem, and we asked in our amendment that the economic endowment on this law be increased. I hope that there is no appeal, as is often the case, to the question linked to Article 81 of the Constitution; it is true that some spending forecasts do not immediately find cover, but I believe that some extra money can put in condition a law, which is perhaps even perfectable and can be refined in the near future, to find the possibility of a facilitated path and to arrive at a linear management of a problem, which is so fast in its path that sometimes you can't keep up with it. We have therefore tabled an amendment to this effect and I believe that, if the Government has the opportunity to put some extra money into it, it will certainly be money well spent. Then there is the question of family issues. The school is not always able to handle these problems and parents do not always have the ability to understand that their children know how to use new technologies - because they may not be able to get to know them - and this produces very serious damage. Can you die of cyberbullying? Looks like it. Even in some countries in Northern Europe, but not only that, there have been some cases of kids who committed suicide because of the negative effects they had on some subjects who have published photos or videos and this has led them to take their lives because of the shame they felt. What then is our task? In the last fifteen days we have dealt with some serious issues: the issue of slot machines at the beginning of this week, the issue of Civil Protection that will be addressed next week and this bill that we are now examining again, which has certainly been improved and which has had a rather serious legislative path in the last ten years. I believe that from the first version of the cyberbullying bill to today things have changed a lot; therefore, already in this bill today in approval we have also tried to predict phenomena that will certainly occur in the near future. For this reason, in my opinion, this measure can be the basis of a law that must remain open and updated continuously. The technological contribution is in fact so fast that it will involve adjustment and modernisation work that this Parliament will certainly be able to implement. We have contributed a number of amendments to the Commission and I hope there will be a chance, as has already been the case here, of approving them, because we really care about a world that is sometimes hidden and sometimes silent, but in its maximum terms it can make a great deal of noise and great damage. I shall conclude my speech here, Mr President, and reserve the right to make other remarks in an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u32	Mr President, since I am among the last to speak, I would not like to repeat what has been said, but only to highlight some essential elements. In my opinion - I have read the comparative texts of the bill - the strong sense of the text that we presented in the Senate must be recovered. In fact, as emerges from so many interventions that I share, the rooting of the problem and the phenomenon of bullying and cyberbullying lies in adolescence. Adolescence is the time, and school, especially middle school and the first two years of secondary school, is the effective educational place where action can and must be taken. Therefore, the bill - and I thank Senator Ferrara for having structured it so appropriately - must be focused in that school age, otherwise it risks losing sense and dispersing its effectiveness. I participated, as a school manager, in various initiatives on the subject, also abroad: both Scotland and Denmark, already in the early 2000s, had a strong sensitivity on this subject, invested so much resources on cyberbullying and had adopted an anti-bullying policy. We have come through a series of experiments over many years, which have seen the Ministry of Education, University and Research protagonist of attempts, for example that of 2007: formations have been made, even interesting, there have been various initiatives, that have been a certain success and that, however, have not been much followed up. In 2012, then, with school autonomy there was another attempt: the Minister of Education issued guidelines for the definition of a territorial network staff between educational institutions. There were, therefore, some pilot realities in our country, networks of schools that were trying to carry out anti-bullying initiatives. The phenomenon is, however, so rampant that at last - also thanks to the law on good school - we face it today, also through an enriched staff. We will certainly intervene in a framework of reform and additional resources, especially by working on an interinstitutional table. The problem, in fact, must not be delegated to the school, but must be assumed responsibly by various institutions and ministries that interact in a permanent interministerial table, to which participate networks of schools, health companies, network manager, Data Protection Supervisor, Agcom, Postal Police and so on. Therefore, interinstitutionality is the strong moment, the pregnant moment, also because in order to solve the problem effectively we must work together, in synergy, as many have said, and we will do so. It is an absolutely categorical duty to end it with punitive attitudes, which have very often also been repeated in this House: attitudes of search for the culprit, repressive attitudes. The right approach of course must be the formative, educational and - why not? - informative, responsible and educating the whole community, which is often in great difficulty in handling the problem. I have seen parents very often unarmed, teachers very often hesitant, who felt the need to intervene but who also had great hesitations about the modalities. Here, then, you have to work together. I do not repeat data that many have previously reported. These are data from ISTAT, CENSIS and other bodies, which are very worrying because we are talking about 50%. We use all good practices. I would like to refer to the title of the guide which was mentioned earlier: Think about it before you share it. We also think before we share a bill that is not really perfect, because this measure must come out of the parliamentary classrooms really perfect, functional and effective. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the phenomenon of cyberbullying has spread at an exponential rate because of the extreme ease of access of children to the Internet and their great propensity to use new technologies. The phenomenon is very complex, because it often results in the uncontrolled and uncontrollable spread of the material that is posted on the net. The public is now getting the right attention on these issues and we need to take action in good time. However, Parliament, once again, is late in dealing with the problem, confirming the tendency of the last 20 years not to be able to keep up with the times and not to be able to govern the changes that, if positive or negative, appear increasingly sudden in our society. We are grateful to Senator Ferrara who has taken charge of it, fighting and trying to protect the idea and the original spirit of this bill as much as possible. The research carried out by ISTAT on the phenomena of cyberbullying and bullying in Italy gives us some really worrying data, first of all on the bullying that is carried out and lived by the children in the age group between the eleven and the seventeen years, as my colleague Cociancich has said, which concerns 52.7 percent of the total (i.e. 2,200,000 children suffer offensive and violent episodes). However, from the data it is even more worrying that, among those who suffer violent acts, 19.8 percent suffer them several times a month and 9.1 percent weekly. It is in this context that the speech on cyberbullying and the concern for these repeated behaviors are inserted. According to the same survey, 7 percent claim to have been a victim once or several times a month of bullying via mobile phones or the Internet. Of course, these are data that must make us think and become even worse when it is the youngest people who are involved. We talk about young people with a personality not yet fully formed and with an emotional-relational fragility linked to the difficult phase of adolescent growth. That is why we welcome the fact that the text approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is again - and rightly so - focused on the specific nature of the protection of the child and thus ensures greater effectiveness in its application. As I said in my explanation of vote during the first reading of the measure in May 2015, when many of our amendments were accepted, a fundamental role, especially of prevention, must be played in these cases by the school, which must not only educate in the conscious and informed use of the Internet, but also equip itself with professional figures who know how to do adequate prevention within the educational context and effectively support the victims of bullying and cyberbullying, as well as those who - knowingly and unknowingly - are responsible for vexing acts, threats, and incitement to suicide. This was the spirit of the agenda, which I had presented and received at first reading, which committed the Government to foresee, within each school complex and respecting autonomy, the figure of the pedagogist as a link between the school and the family, for the identification of the best educational-rehabilitative paths and as a resource endowed with great experience in the field of methodologies and teaching, but also in the ability to identify, with innovative tools, the different styles of learning and the different causes of discomfort, difficulties related to personal, relational and emotional motivations, which, if not recognized and not treated in an appropriate way, can generate the behaviors of bullying and cyberbullying of the individual or group. That is why important economic resources are needed for school education, resources which, compared to the text adopted at first reading, have even decreased: on this we express our concern. Therefore, while welcoming the work that the Commission has hesitated to do, we hope that these resources will be increased in the future, with greater economic commitment, otherwise they will have little effect. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u35	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u36	Mr President, before I go into the substance of the measure, allow me not to express formal thanks (as always), but of substance, and in this case both I and the party I represent give them a very strong address. This is a subject that we discussed in the Senate at first instance and for this reason I would like to thank, not forgetting its contribution, Senator Mazzoni (who was the first rapporteur for this measure), and Senator Palermo. After a passage (as far as we are concerned, a little troubled) to the Chamber of Deputies, where the contest of ideas was so copious that it became confused, the text returned to the Senate. Since we care so much about this text, the most important thanks goes to Senator Ferrara, who wanted to be presenter of the bill and did so with a particular intensity, because I did not know the specific episode, but now I realized that it is a theme that has seen her, in her professional activity, particularly touched by the pathological effects of this case. I call it in particular to try to give some asepticism to a subject that is certainly deeply sensitive, because it calls into question a series of social sensibilities that do not want to find only culprits and victims, but above all want to identify problems in order to give them the right solutions. In the passage to the Senate we wanted to enhance one aspect above all: there are agencies of meaning that are the families, first of all, and the school, which have a didactic and educational function, but cannot be considered managers, under monopoly, of the solution of all problems. This is the reason why, to the net of a tendency that at times the legislator and we all show to a panpenalization, that is to a stiffening, sometimes uncritical and sometimes at the risk of obtaining an imbalance between different species of crime, what we wanted to do in this provision was to valorize - it has remembered the Senator Palermo - the aspect certainly preventive and educational, but also that of the effectiveness sanctions not criminal, or not so much and not only criminal. In fact, we know very well that there are already crimes, regulated by the penal code and governed in their part by the Code of Criminal Procedure, ranging from harassment to petulance and violence, from private violence to identity theft, to the violation of the most intimate part of the essence of a person, among other things particularly weak, because the victim is a minor and in this case the executioner is also a minor. However, the stiffening of these sanctions uncritically strikes an arrow, but does not target it, because it does not have a really educational or preventive function. This is the sense of caution on the part of the quaestor, which may initially seem a brutal form of approach to the identified problem, to the present case: it may seem almost a form of sanction to the family and school that have not been able to pick up the behavior of the child, but in reality it is not. Very often the family and school are not physically able to know what is going on, not just because the devices have increased and by devices I mean mobile phones (of which minors are now usually equipped), iPads and computers. On this I open a parenthesis, because I was very impressed by a consideration made by Senator Mazzoni at first reading, which is absolutely right because statistically found: the most part of the attitudes of cyberbullying is perpetrated on the school computer platforms and there is a singular harmony and symmetry between the computer crimes committed by the adult, which are mostly perpetrated on the workplace. However, it is evident that in these cases children often hide behind fakes, behind false identities or even steal identity of schoolmates in order to make themselves unidentifiable. This is why I say that the warning of the quaestor, the real deterrent sanction that this provision provides, is a support to those who do not want realising it; Very often, in fact, there is an attitude almost openoristically sanctioning the family, which is said to have replaced television and Playstation with a mobile phone or computer platform. It is not so, very often the behaviors of cyberbulls are not detectable, as the victims are not, which often do not report. Therefore the intervention of the State, probably in its most effective form (and of this, as colleagues know, we have discussed extensively in the Commission), in the figure of the quaestor, with the gesture and the symbolic meaning of the summons and the admonition, interrupts a behavior that - even this, alas, is a statistical fact - often represents an escalation, because we know that the fourteen-year-old who begins to perform acts of cyberbully will become an eighteen-year-old who performs acts of increasingly violent cyberbully. This chain must therefore be interrupted and - alas - it is not the rigidity of the penalties, nor the severity of the sanctions that lead to this interruption: it is the correct, correct preventive and educational activity. In this sense, the positive element that the party I represent sees in the norm in question is an educational function towards parents, schools and police forces (postal in this case, because these crimes are very difficult to grasp, for all the reasons I have said and on which I will not dwell, waiting for that to be widely debated by my previous colleagues). That is why we have considered, as the previous speakers have said, that it would be appropriate to return to our text, because, just as the excessive penalty alters a judicial balance, the penalty that has multiform recipients, which does not correctly identify the criminal case, also leads to an element of unconstitutionality. We all know that the criminal law in white is not properly provided for in our law and is considered unconstitutional, because we all need to know exactly what is the case of a crime that we might incur. So the fact of identifying too many active subjects, too many passive subjects, namely not correctly identified or incorrectly described, with wide meshes (so to speak), risks making this norm, so important for us and for the country, substantially ineffective, a manifest norm. We do not care to say that we have finally approved a rule on bullying, which includes children as well as adults, so the bullying perpetrated on computer platforms such as material bullying (here we obviously have a dematerialized bullying, implemented through computer and computer "detonators"). We don't care, because it's not possible. Too broad a rule, especially the far-reaching criminal law, does not apply to anyone or, worse still, could apply to everyone; and this makes it even more terribly dangerous. That is why, when we discussed this measure extensively and in a very responsible way in the Commission, we felt that we would return to our original text, where the areas of application and operation of this rule are clear: minors, IT platform (from which cyberbullying) and non-criminal sanction (truly effective in this case). My time is running out, so I'll get to the conclusion quickly. It has not been easy for us, because - as was said - it is a case that, like all the behaviors that are carried out on the net, is elusive both as origin and as a matrix and as a definition of lawfulness of behavior and above all as elimination of consequences. Again, we do not claim that this rule will solve everything. It is clear that there must be coordinations with the Data Protection Supervisor and with all those who are legitimated, indeed they will have the obligation to remove the consequences of the act of cyberbullying. It is also necessary - and we demand this with great determination, as we have also said in the Commission - that network operators become responsible and be aware of how traumatic the preservation of cyberbullying-related material can be, in that escalation of violence that we have said, and that therefore they donate (partly have already done so) and apply self-discipline codes that can facilitate the activity of the independent administrative authority responsible for the protection of confidentiality. For all these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of our party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Ferrara. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u37	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u38	Mr President, I also want to begin by thanking Senator Palermo, the rapporteur for the measure, and the whole of the Commission, for the important choice that has been made, referring to the original spirit and therefore also to the original text of this very important bill. Before intervening on the content and substance of the measure, I would also like to thank them because this choice keeps the legislator's attitude within a very important area, which has matured in Italy since 1991, i.e. since the signing of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This Convention establishes the need for special protection for minors because of their lack of physical and intellectual maturity; therefore, they need special protection. Even in Italy, since the signing of that Convention, the choice of child-friendly right has matured and consolidated. Our country, from that date, has adopted, in full compliance with the Convention, laws specifically concerning minors. I am thinking of juvenile penitentiary law, Law 285 of 1997, to reach the right to emotional continuity. All governments that have succeeded each other over time, of any political color, have retained this choice, which, even before political, is a cultural choice. Even just a few days ago the House (we will also do it in the coming weeks) approved the bill on the protection of unaccompanied minors, giving life, within the complex phenomenon of immigration and the reception of migrants, to a specific measure dedicated to minors, precisely because there is a specificity that concerns childhood and adolescence. A specificity that takes into account the complexity of children's lives and the complexity of evolution from childhood to adolescence and adulthood, which needs specific attention from adults and therefore also from the legislator. In fact, minors are not small adults, minors are subject to the law and specific regulations that are not diluted in generic measures must be reserved for them. Among other things, this optics has permeated the measure on cyberbullying that we fired last year and that the House has modified, opening and extending it to the topic of adult-network relationship, which is certainly of great importance and must be dealt with urgently, because the problems it raises are very important: one goes from the defence of one's privacy to individual freedom, to the hate speech (incitement to hatred), the hoaxes and everything else. All this needs to be addressed and regulated, but I would like to make it very clear that children and adults are different subjects: children are entitled to be protected by specifically dedicated rules. This right must be made payable by those whom I call the carriers of duty. This must be implemented in the educational logic typical for subjects of evolutionary age, an educational logic oriented to promote responsibility, for children, girls, boys and girls, but inseparably linked to the requirement of the same rights. This approach promotes the educational, civic and community dimension; on the contrary, today, even more than yesterday, we need a pact, an alliance capable of strengthening the right of minors and a specific protection. This must also be done with regard to the phenomenon of cyberbullying. That is why, I repeat, I agree with the choice made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the rapporteur, who, among other things, decided by a large majority (as also reiterated in the debate in this House), to return to the cultural and political approach of the original text. The measure that we are about to vote on is not based on sanctioning attitudes, it does not criminalize the web, but it is based on the prevention and cultural promotion of the correct use of the network, but putting at the centre the individual and collective responsibility of both children and adults. However, adults do not seem to be fully aware of the danger inherent in the network. A 2014 European survey, aimed at both children and adults, revealed that 35 percent of the children who claimed to have suffered acts of cyberbullying had committed acts of self-harm, 55 percent had fallen into depression and 38 percent had thought of suicide. On the other hand, the adults surveyed had a completely opposite position. Think that 31 percent of them view cyberbullying as a normal act in the growth phase, 6 percent even think that cyberbullying forms character and 50 percent of them have no perception of the violence that is being subjected to cyberbullying. For this reason, a law that speaks to the world of minors, but also to the world of adults, is very important. I would like to highlight some aspects of the measure in our examination, two in particular. Firstly, I would like to highlight the fact that the educational element has been put at the centre and therefore the school, that is, the place where they occur, from what the data tell us, about 90 percent of cyberbullying episodes. The measure puts the school at the centre in an important way, focusing on the training of staff. In this sense there is a very important and specific commitment that I want to stress, because to train teachers in close collaboration with families and local institutions, means that education to the conscious use of the network will be a permanent activity and therefore, coming out of the logic of the projects that are born and then die, it will become almost a sort of DNA of the educational process. This law will also meet the demands of the children because, quoting another investigation, it is the children themselves who say that they live cyberbullying as the main element of difficulty, a real threat to their private life and 83 percent of these children say they would like a course in school on the use of social media. 31 percent of them say that no one has ever explained the proper use of social media. I would also like to stress the fact that 26 percent of them chat at school. Cyberbullying, then, involves in an undifferentiated way males and females. Another important fact is that 83 percent of these kids tell us they know a 13-year-old boy who has his own Facebook profile. I would like to highlight another aspect, namely the forecast of the definition of an integrated action plan, also through the establishment of a technical table, both at national and local level, made up of the various ministries concerned. This is particularly important, and I hope - I am convinced - that national and local tables will be inclusive and will activate their entire journey through the formation and cooperation of all institutional subjects, but also co-training: not therefore, a separate formation of individual subjects, but co-training, because only with it is built, not only an embankment to spread the phenomenon of cyberbullying, but also a new and common awareness that will also help to avoid heavy consequences to those who do not use the web properly. Therefore, training and teamwork are the important elements that will have to characterize the work within schools and in the interinstitutional network, because it is important that the protection of children is perceived, considered and implemented as a collective responsibility that must be shared by parents, institutions and operators. The fight against cyberbullying cannot ignore the synergy of these subjects and the correct use of the web. The bill under examination is not coercive or punitive, but is based on the promotion of a civic culture based on respect for itself and for others. I speak of self-respect and respect for others because these are the words that dress the clothes of prevention and education, because without these words education and prevention are empty words. This is the important challenge inherent in the cultural approach of the bill and its application, because education to the conscious use of the network is not, will not and will not be alone and only the implementation of the knowledge of a technique to defend or defend children. If it is obviously necessary to know also the techniques, even more important is the activation of an educational process of citizenship, that is to promote and support the awareness of the inseparable existence of rights and responsibility, in the inseparable respect that each of us demands for himself from the respect that each of us owes to the other. It is therefore a question of working to support the formation of stronger individual and collective identities. It is, for example, about working on emotions, therefore on empathy, which today is a great absentee. You must be aware that this bill is related to the content of the law on good school and the implementing decrees. I have spoken of respect for oneself and for others and I want to emphasize that two are the subjects damaged by cyberbullying: certainly, in the first place, those who undergo acts of this type, but I consider the victim of cyberbullying even those who do them. Violent, evil and bullying are not born, we become it; then I give myself this explanation: if you are not born but you become it is because what you have met or that you have not met in your life has made us fragile compared to the risk of activating behaviors so violent. In the research done at European level, which I mentioned earlier, there is a very heavy figure, because a very high percentage of young people say that there is also a strong influence of parental attitudes in cyberbullying. It is precisely for this reason that I believe it is important that the draft law under consideration, which is based on education and re-education of children, should also be based on the involvement and education of the adult world, because even before we talk about minors we must talk about us adults. They, the children, will have the necessary rights, of real rights, when we too will change our cultural approach and we will be able not to think only of ourselves, today, but to think of tomorrow. That's the end of it. There's a phrase I often hear, and every time I hear it, my skin hangs: "Children are our future." This is indicative of a sick adult centrism, of a collective and individual attitude all based on us adults, on today, on a logic that does not have to do with the future. We need to think of the present of children as the only way to be able to project a better future for everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Antinori, Bencini and Chiavaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u39	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u40	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the rich and very fruitful debate that has taken place. It is certainly not possible to take back everything that has already been said about colleagues. I would simply like to point out three major guidelines which have come to my mind by listening to the speeches made by everyone, for whom I thank my fellow Members once again. The first concerns the approach that follows the measure, generally shared by everyone, so that no further words must be given: colleagues Blundo, Maturani, Idem, Cociancich and Mattesini spoke about it, and an expression that I liked very much, namely the cultural choice that this measure operates. I would like to point out what Senators Malan and Bernini said in particular about the need for an approach aimed at prevention rather than bureaucratisation, and avoid an increase in penalties which will then remain only on paper. The second major orientation that emerges and on which there is ample sharing is related to responsibility, which requires - as has been said - "understanding" and "sensitisation" the important expressions used that have pinpointed to me. In this regard, I would particularly like to thank the contribution of Senators Favero, Puppato, Rizzotti, Fasiolo and Senator Liuzzi. The last, but not least, director deals with the ways in which the measure takes action, which follow the basic cultural choice that inspires it. We all agree, in this case too, on the need and centrality of the role of the school. Some have highlighted - in particular Senator Serra - the difficulty of intervening effectively in the presence of funds - diplomatically speaking - rather slim. You can see the glass also half full in this respect: the law intends to carry out an operation of great importance at extremely low costs for the community. It's a first step. Of course, we all want to devote more resources. After listening to Senator Serra's speech, we could define this as a sort of "Ikea" law: it can be done very little; of course, everyone would like more valuable furniture, but better to have what passes the convent and try to set in motion a virtuous process, rather than having nothing. In this respect, I was very pleased to hear everyone's willingness to approve the measure. Needless to say, cross-cutting support will give strength to this measure, to its basic cultural choice and also to the Chamber of Deputies for the fourth - and hopefully final - reading, which we can hope will happen very soon. I would like to thank everyone once again for their valuable contribution to the work in the Commission at the previous reading and to the work in this House: it would certainly be pleasant for everyone to always work this way. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u42	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u43	Mr President, I think there is really little to say today, because the debate in this House has been complete and shared and the direction that this Parliament gives us today is certainly to address the great problem we are facing. I would like to begin by thanking the Human Rights Commission, where the first two draft laws were presented, one signed by Riccardo Mazzoni and the other signed by Elena Ferrara, for sharing these measures and having them framed in the first Commission. I would like to thank Senator Ferrara very much. I followed the examination of the bill in part in the Senate and in part in the House, and Senator Ferrara was very passionate. When one of us in life has a way of living even phenomena that are not always pleasant, he gets passionate and carries them forward with a different love. Thank you, therefore, because your strength has enabled this Parliament to return to the initial text, which provided for the creation of a platform to accompany the education and the relationship of our children in the world of school. It was not a text that wanted to reach all the adults, but wanted to remain in the world in which our boys form. The Ministry - I see present Senator Giannini - has been very attentive to this. We have tried to follow the matter to the best of our ability. Our interest as MIUR is to accompany our children by educating and training them in a conscious use of the new means that - as Senator Idem said - in some cases we must learn to use ourselves and we should become examples: our young people to grow need examples in the world not only of school, but also of the family. I thank the Commission for doing a great deal of work by listening to associations, police forces and the world of school. Our interest as a Ministry is to have as soon as possible a framework within which to frame and accompany the phenomenon in the best way. Of course it is a first step and, as with all new things, we must accompany, control it and, in some cases, even modify it because we must have the humility to know that it is a world that we too come to know and that - the numbers tell us - grows exponentially. We hope that we will soon have a law that will allow us to have this regulatory framework. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Chiavaroli and Palermo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u44	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. In accordance with Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that amendments 3.2, 3.3, 3.14, 3.101, 4.6, 4.103, 6,100 and 7,101 are inadmissible, since they do not relate to parts of the bill amended by the House of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u45	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 1,100, 1,101 (text 2) and against Amendment No 1,101a.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u46	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u47	President Tonini, I would ask you to give your opinion on Amendment 1,101 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u48	Mr President, the opinion is totally out of the question, because the opposite view expressed in the Commission is based on the desire to avoid an abnormal enlargement of the audience. The wording would be incorrupted in the censorship of Article 81, because the Privacy Authority had told us that, with the resources it currently has, it would not be able to monitor an audience at this point coinciding with the universe of the Italian population. We must remain, therefore, within the framework of minors. However, the amendment introduces a very limited enlargement to adult high school students. Since it is a very limited category, the amendment is completely compatible from the point of view of the financial impact.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101a, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u50	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u51	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senators Centinario and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators, until the following words are added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u53	Mr President, we do not see the point of including among the associations that will participate in the technical table for the prevention and the fight against cyberbullying set up in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers also the alleged experts in the phantom gender issues. We are once again faced with this ideological category of this kind. It would be as if some 30 years ago there had been talk of Marxist experts when it would have been enough to talk about social and economic experts. In this group of experts are already included psychologists and all the categories of this world, so one could very well suppress this expression which is clearly of a well-defined ideological pattern.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u54	I remind this Assembly that in the previous passage the Government and the rapporteur removed precisely the specific indication not of the associations that fight cyberbullying, but of the LGBT ones from the experts, because they were already reabsorbed in all the topics referred to in Article 1. The purpose of the law is to fight every derision or offense for reasons of language, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, physical aspect and disability, but as usual a hand in the House has decided that it should contribute to form the plan of action not only - as is right - a representation of associations active in the fight against bullying and cyberbullying - a point on which I absolutely agree - but also of associations experienced in gender issues. To me it is repeated by the Government and the majority that the theory of the genre does not exist and that all those who dispute about the entry into schools of such theory are in bad faith, because there is no such theory. Then I find myself in a law text - I also address the representative of the government, of which I would like to know the opinion - that instead to draw up the plans and also ask for funding at local level to carry out this type of action against cyberbullying must be involved all those who fight the phenomenon, including parents' associations, those who deal with racial issues, all in the same cauldron, but also those who deal with the issue of the genre must also be involved. Since the fight against discrimination against sexual orientation is already planned, does anyone explain to me which associations deal with gender and go to the integrated action plan? Does the rapporteur explain this to me? Can you explain to me why the House introduced this element that the Senate had taken away? Do not say then that we make ideology; perhaps those who put our hand in the House and introduce something that no one here defends or can explain, unless they admit that there is such a theory to be brought into schools or educational institutions. I therefore turn to the Government and the rapporteur: if it is a measure that we all vote on, is sexual orientation also understood as it is right that all the associations that fight cyberbully are present, should we really include, for an ideological issue, such associations too? I believe that a minimum of wisdom can lead the rapporteur and the government to have that engraving removed, since the measure must, however, return to the examination of the House, and approve a standard shared by everyone. Otherwise it can happen - as has happened already with other laws - that then someone says that in the elections they will remember these things. These are real cold provocations about something that, hearing what the Government, the Ministry of Education, University and Research and the same majority, officially state, should not exist. Since such a theory does not exist, we also take away the representation of those who support gender. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u55	We greet the students and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education (Rosario Livatino), in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u56	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u57	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 3, with the exception of Amendments 3.5 and 3.100, to take up the comments of Senators Malan and Giovanardi. However, I would like to make it clear that it remains in the acts, not because of the opposition to the substance, but because of the evident redundancy in the text, that gender aspects are fundamental, but are included in the overall expertise on the issues of adolescence. To put it even more clearly, it is clear that there must be someone who is interested and knows the problems and discrimination on a sexual basis. After that, if this helps to avoid a greater redundancy of the text, we can also give a favourable opinion. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Shame, shame! PALERMO, rapporteur. I am in favour of amendment 3.11, however, providing for a rewording: we should write 'e', also using the collaboration with the Postal Police and other police forces, so as to avoid giving the exclusivity to the Postal Police that we know is also going through difficulties and it is not always possible to intervene on the piece.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u58	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u59	Senator Tonini, it does not seem to me that the rewording of Amendment 3.11 involves problems of burden. TONINI (PD). Mr President, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u62	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on what has been said about Amendments 3.5 and 3.100. The question - as Senator Giovanardi put it - is totally surreal and instrumental. If Senator Giovanardi does not want the LGBT associations to sit at the tables, he must ask that the associations that deal with the prevention of bullying be removed from that table. LGBT associations in our country are primarily and for some time ancient the main supporters and promoters of actions and projects against bullying in schools and in society. Therefore, the passage on gender thematics has nothing to do with the identity, work and action of LGBT associations. It is clear that in the text the reference to gender issues has to do with another theme, which may, of course, also concern issues relating to sexual orientation, gender identity, relations between homosexuals and heterosexuals in society, but which essentially and primarily concern the relationship between man and woman, the relationship between male and female gender: this is what we mean when we talk about gender issues. It doesn't exist, it's a hoax, an invention the theory of the kind that would like to intervene in schools to make all the children of girls and all the children of children. Of course there are gender issues! Of course there is a gender issue! Of course there are gender studies! [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]] There is certainly a theme that concerns the relationships between genders, which is basically the basis of most of those phenomena of cyberbullying that are often oriented towards girls, unarmed girls, discovered, transparent, without defenses on the part of the group of males who subject them to actions of cyberbullying. For this reason it is essential that there is also a reference in the text to those associations - and not the LGBT associations - that deal with gender issues. I would find it really inappropriate that, in the name of respect for an ideological position, totally ideological, the text loses this important reference. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u65	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have known for years the political positions on the subject of Senators Giovanardi and Malan, who on several occasions have rightly expressed their views in this House and in public actions, to the extent that they require several times, including through official acts and questions, the withdrawal of the famous booklets on gender and the abolition of activities carried out in schools in this regard. I must say, however, that we are, to say the least, appalled by the favourable opinion on Amendments 3.5 and 3.100 which the rapporteur, Senator Palermo, and the Government have expressed. This means that the majority are voting in favour of the deletion of gender issues. As Senator Lo Giudice explained very well - and I don't want to repeat myself for a long time - we are not talking about homosexuality, which is also a very important issue and has been mentioned in so many speeches. And I also remember homophobia is one of the elements that push to bullying and cyberbullying. We're talking about gender. In the speeches under discussion, we have said that it is important to take initiatives within schools for education on the relationship between genders, on the recognition of diversity. The deletion of this part of the article is inexplicable and unacceptable. In this House we have had discussions and approved acts, not least the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, putting the issue of gender as the subject of issues, which we must address in all areas, from school to work, to society. And today we are witnessing this shame. I would like to announce that we will of course vote against these two amendments and I hope that there will be a change of opinion on the part of the Government and the rapporteur. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Guerra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u66	I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to communicate something to the House before moving on to the explanations of vote. You have to figure out what the position is.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u67	Mr President, in the light of the debate that has taken place and in order to avoid misinterpretation or interpretation of the objective, which is very simple in reality, which the text intended, I would like to change the opinion expressed earlier, putting myself back to the vote of this House. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups and Senator Orellana]] The vote is a matter of everyone's conscience and I think that, in the end, everyone will vote as they like. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u68	I invite the representative of the Government, who had complied with the rapporteur's opinion, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u69	Mr President, the text is quite simple: 'of associations with proven experience in promoting the rights of children and adolescents'. The government agreed with the rapporteur, because, stopping here, all the associations that deal with the rights of children and adolescents would be guaranteed, without putting anyone out, because there are so many associations that also deal with other rights. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)]] However, if there is such a will, there is no problem for the Government and it can be put back to the vote of the Assembly. In my opinion, however, if we stop at the words of children and adolescents, we are certainly able to guarantee everyone without exception. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL), LN-Aut and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u71	I see that Senator Mussini also points out that she wants to intervene. Since you belong to the same group as Senator Petraglia, you have two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u72	Senator Bencini, you have the floor. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to refer to what Senators Lo Giudice and Petraglia have said. To remove the gender issue seems incongruous to me, because - as has already been said - we are different. Also in Legislative Decree No. 81 of 9 April 2008 (single text on safety at work), it is recognized that men and women are two different kinds. I therefore believe that the gender factor must be taken into account in the education, including sentimental education for children. There are associations that deal with this and have the patience to explain what is the difference between a man and a woman (different sensitivity, different hormones and the female hormonal cycle that changes and makes women more or less "nerve"). As a result, it has a great value for me to expunge this part, which I believe should be maintained. For these reasons, the Italy component of the values of the Mixed Group will vote against Amendments 3.5 and 3.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u75	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I do not think it is superfluous to specify gender issues, because we have all been the victims of bad information. Most of the country was the victim of bad information. I think it doesn't escape anyone as much as I was against the Good School Act, which I thought was 99 percent censorable. That one percent relates to the explicit attention that has been given to the need to develop gender issues at school. During the general discussion it was said that the predisposition to violence and cyberbullying was born from a stratification within an educational path. It is clear that this also becomes an instrument for the prevention of gender-based violence and it must therefore be clear that, in the course of school to combat cyberbullying, gender issues must also become a part of education. Therefore, I believe that this is important in order to restore correct information to what has also been disseminated in a fairly indiscriminate and dangerous way. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u78	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, we had already devoted special attention to this point in the last examination and had reached a point of mediation. It is currently active at the Ministry, together with the table of the Internet Day Safer, the table "Generazioni Connecte" (Connesse Generations), which participates associations that refer to different types of discrimination, and not only gender, but also related to other problems. It is clear that, at the moment, we are intervening on a text, proposed by the other branch of Parliament, which has decided to highlight the gender aspect. Therefore, I first, having behind me - many of the senators who have spoken during the general debate have explained this - the direct experience of a suicide by cyberbullying (the first acclaimed, but certainly intersected with the big area linked to gender differences), I appreciate that the vote is left to the House and that it is referred to us to understand and question this particular type of discrimination which, in fact, interferes quite and heavily with the discriminatory activities in the field of computer bullying that we are aware of today. There are, of course, others, but I believe that leaving that reference in the text is important in view of the fact that - as you know - the victims so far are almost all women. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u81	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we are sorry that this point has been the subject of ideological controversy, which perhaps stems from the formulation of that passage, because, when we talk about the rights of children, it seems as if they have come to protect all the rights of the subjects, but as minors, while we should pay attention to the 360 degree discrimination that can affect a person. Article 3 of the Constitution speaks not only of sex, but also of race, language, religion, personal conditions (such as disability) and political opinions. So do we want to make the effort to overcome a diatribe that has unleashed on a point that we take for granted? It is obvious that cyberbullying often has gender membership as its object, but it is also true that it is not the only one. We should then perhaps come to a wording that goes beyond this specific and selective introduction and re-approach, with a broader wording, not only the rights of children, but also all aspects of discrimination that can be the subject of cyberbullying. So if there is an association that deals with racism or the protection of the rights of disabled people and their non-discrimination, then it should be included in the formulation, or explicitly or implicitly, through a broad formula. That is our proposal. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u84	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, we support Amendment 3.5, because we really believe that, having indicated the words in paragraph 1 of Article 3: 'and in gender issues', we have opened a field which - as you all know - we in the North League have always opposed. The fact that the rapporteur has changed his mind about some of the speeches and, therefore, that he is returning to this House puts us in a position to maintain our position and to potentially revise our final opinion as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u87	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I had appreciated the statements made by the rapporteur, Mr Palermo, who had given his willingness to accept Amendment 3.5. However, the new indication puts me in great difficulty. Therefore, my personal position is that if the amendment in question were to be rejected, I would be forced not to vote on the measure, unlike what the Forza Italia Group has said so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u88	Amendments 3.2 and 3.3 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5, which is identical to Amendment 3.100. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senators Centinario and Calderoli, identical to Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.101 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 by Senators Centinario and Calderoli, identical to Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Serra and other Senators. (The vote was followed). [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] Senator Giovanardi, I cannot remind you that we are without a mandate, since you have also done legal studies. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Serra, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur of Amendment 3.11? SERRA (M5S). Mr President, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11 (text 2), tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.14 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.16 tabled by Senators Centinario and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u89	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment 4.103 with the rewording I am going to read.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u90	Amendment 4.103 is impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u91	PALERMO, rapporteur. The opinion is therefore opposed to all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u92	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u93	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 4.2 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senators Centinario and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.6 and 4.103 are inadmissible. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 4.7 and 4.12 are impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4104, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4105. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senators Centinario and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u96	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, is it possible to check that there are no cards inserted in the absence of the holders?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u97	There's a lot of them. I invite the secretary senators to check it out. (The operation is carried out.) You can leave my card in, because the Vice President's detection when he's presiding is automatically cancelled. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u98	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u99	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u102	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the G4100 agenda is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 1,101 (text 2), unless we repent of a different scope (for my part I do not see it). I therefore withdraw the agenda for Mr G4100, because I still find it satisfactory to accept Amendment 1,101 (text 2). [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u103	Great wisdom from you, Senator Endrizzi. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u106	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I was wrong to vote in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u107	We take note of that, Senator Falanga. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5, introduced by the House of Deputies. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5, which was introduced by the House of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, which corresponds to Article 5 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u108	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u109	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u110	Amendment 6,100 is inadmissible. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 6.1 (text 2) is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6, which corresponds to Article 5 of the text approved by the Senate. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 6, corresponding to Article 5 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u113	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to point out that Senator Maurizio Romani and I were wrong to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u114	I take note of that, Senator Bencini. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, which corresponds to Article 6 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u115	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u116	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u117	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,100. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,100, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7,101 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 7, corresponding to Article 6 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Article 8, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, has been deleted in the Commission. Colleagues, I need your attention to organize the work. We would still, theoretically, have an hour and twenty minutes of explanations of vote. CASINI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Let's do it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casini, I'll call you back for the first time, because you always suggest. If there is no desire for self-quotas at all, it would not seem right for some to speak in an explanation of vote today and others to wait for next week. I would like to ask you whether you would prefer to begin explanations of vote. (Senator Martelli nods). As there is no convergence of views, I put the decision back to the vote of this House. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the explanations of vote on the draft law to our examination at the sitting on Tuesday afternoon, so that it can be carried out fully. It's approved. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk. (Brusio)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u119	You have the floor, Senator Stefano, but I ask you to have one minute of patience. [[Senator D'Alì points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator D'Alì, if you wish to speak at this stage, you must send the request to the Presidency before the beginning of the speeches at the end of the sitting. However, I am aware of the reason for your request and I will reiterate to the Government your call to respond with regard to fishermen and ships machined in international waters. Please, Senator Stephen.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u120	Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to Question 301526 of 19 December 2014. Repeat: December 19, 2014. An urgent question, as provided for in our Rules of Procedure in Rule 151, as you know. The question is about a serious business, employment and strategic crisis of major importance. I refer to the closure of the Sangalli Vetro di Manfredonia. More than two years after the opening of the crisis, I would ask you, Mr President, to ensure that the requested Dicastery, the Ministry of Economic Development, provides clarification on the instruments and measures for which it intends to opt in order to facilitate the overcoming of the dramatic employment situation that is affecting Manfredonia and the neighbouring territories. However, I would ask you, Mr President, to pay close attention, because I believe that the dignity of the acts of inspection union is mortified if, after more than two years, we cannot get a reply from the Ministry. That is why I strongly call for an intervention by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u121	Will do, Senator Stephen.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u124	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I will read a statement issued by some associations of teachers and of the school: the National LIP Committee for the school of the Constitution, the Partisans of the public school, the National Coordination for the school of the Constitution, the Manifesto of the 500 self-convoked workers of the schools of Rome and Lazio, Illumin'Italia, CISP and others. The statement states that despite the change of Executive the arrogance of the Government has remained intact. This is testified by the procedures applied to the legislative decrees provided for by law 107. "The so-called good school," which alone has already devastated the school of the Constitution, presented without any democratic control: no comparison with the world of school, with associations, political forces, unions. The Government has chosen to force the spirit of Article 76 of the Charter, which assigns legislative delegation to the Executive with a limited time, and to use an expedient of Law No 107 to extend the deadline for the exercise of the delegation. The Government has put the parliamentary committees in a position to make their opinions weighted, having to express itself in a very short time on eight measures, each concerning sensitive and complex matters. A film already seen, considering the way in which in 2015 passed, in spite of the aversion of the world of school and an extraordinary strike, the so-called good school. This situation undermines the credibility of the work of the Permanent Committees of the House and Senate and renders the hearings in the Commission totally useless, which, precisely because of the tight times, cannot last more than two minutes for each subject. The time of waiting, listening, negotiating and sharing has long expired; we do not intend to legitimise a way of proceeding so deeply undemocratic and authoritarian. Therefore, we will not participate in the hearings at the Commissions of a Parliament that we hope will eventually remember its role in the institutional architecture of the Republic. What has not been done in 18 months cannot be healed in a few hours of "play of the parts" for the use of the apparent restoration of a conversation only of facade. Democracy is much more than the tantalizing exercise of authoritarianism in the vein of extemporaneous flashes of false contradiction. Democracy is a serious matter, as serious and intransigent is our refusal to endorse the policy of annihilation of the school of the Constitution, which these very dangerous delegations also pursue. For these measures we demand - all together and firmly - a single act: withdrawal. That's what the school world says. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-749.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.58 p.m.
