ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 14 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u6	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Oscar Mammì, Republican, Member for six legislatures, Minister for Posts and Telecommunications, also an actor: a polite man, available to dialogue, capable, in his four years of office as Minister, of linking his name to the first organic law on broadcasting. It was not easy at that time, so much so that, at the favourable outcome of Parliament's vote on its reform, five ministers of the Christian Democrat left resigned from the government of Andreotti. But it was not easy especially because it was the first organic law to rearrange the television industry after fifteen years of non-regulation, or rather, as someone then said, of frequency chaos. I say these things with deep conviction because in those years he was one of those who looked forward to a law that would give certainty to a sector in rapid and incredible expansion, but that paid to the end the lack of normative points of reference that could guide the many investments in a world that, beyond the contortions, polemics and demagogisms, has certainly brought more freedom to our country. As a young liberal who I was then, I always looked at the Republican Party as a sort of brother party, with which we have solid common roots (love for freedom and for progress, horror for every dictatorship, strict respect for democratic rules), even if then the individual choices divided us. In particular, I have always respected and admired the great capacity for dialogue, the value it gave to reformism, the fact that I always managed to find a noble compromise, that was not at the bottom and that it respected the convictions of all parties. I was directly interested, therefore, in what was happening in the television broadcasting panorama and had experienced the battles in first person to arrive, even in Italy, at an authentic freedom of expression: tough battles, made of nocturnal flares of repeaters formally out of law and of semi-clandestine broadcasts, often paid with radio and TV closure measures and convictions in the courts. I often hear it - I have also read it in various newspapers these days - that the law Mammì has limited itself to taking note of the existing; it is not so or, better, it was not just so. Certainly Minister Mammi wanted to confirm with his text the conquests of freedom that the televisions and private radios, national and local, had obtained on the field. And for this we must be grateful to him, because he did so despite the very hard opposition of the entire Communist Party and part of the Christian Democracy, then a majority party; to the approval of the law with the confidence, placed by the president of the Council of then Andreotti, they resigned - as I recalled in the premise - as many as five ministers of the Christian Democrat Left. I repeat, it was not just a photograph of the existing one, but a law that for the first time managed to put the whole world of private radios and TVs into an organic system, which until then had grown without rules and, indeed, against the anachronistic law that regulated the sector at the time. It also stated a number of key principles, which we are still sticking to today: that the pluralism of information should be applied also in the radio and television sector, that regulation of radio and TV could not be excluded from a regulation of advertising, that it should take account of the cross-owners' links with traditional publishing. It was in some ways a courageous law, which was passed only thanks to the determination of Bettino Craxi and above all to the abilities of Oscar Mammì: the great skills of mediator, the kind obstinacy of those who know they are in the right, the ability to see far beyond the contingent, favouring the good of the country over the interests of partisan. Mr President, when I come to the conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to greet my daughter Alessandra, who is witnessing our work in the forums. [[Applause]] Finally, I want to remember his great dignity in difficult times (difficult for all then, even for the Republican Party), at the time of Tangentopoli, when he did not want to participate in the bloody reckoning of those years, convinced of his honesty and the primacy of politics. He resigned from Parliament discreetly, almost silently. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u9	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, today the Senate recalls Oscar Mammì, a long parliamentary political leader of the Italian Republican Party, a man of government several times. It has died in recent days, after a disease that has made difficult the last years of a long life, rich in goals achieved and very well spent, both in the private and in the public dimension, never failing the bonds of his family and never abdicating to his great passion for politics. He lived surrounded by the friendship and sympathy of those who knew him, by the esteem of fellow Members of Parliament and by the great respect of those who had the honour of working with him. The senators and senators of the Democratic Party are particularly close to Oscar Mammì's family, children and grandchildren, to whom they express their affection, in the memory of a colleague from whom many have learned to make politics. I address a particular thought to my daughter Alessandra, who listens to us from the gallery, and to whom I am bound an ancient and strong friendship. If I have to summarize in one sentence the political personality of Oscar Mammì, I say that he was a great democrat, a layman, firm in defending Italy's membership of the democratic West, loyal on a truly liberal centre-left line in the political system. If I have to remember with equal brevity his most personal profile, I remember him as a cheerful and ironic friend, a man educated and full of interests, open to the new and enemy of adventures. There are, of course, a lot of Oscar Mammì's initiatives as a Member of Parliament and as Minister, but I do not think that today, here in the Senate, listing them all can be the right way to honor him. I just want to focus - as President Romani has already done - on the difficult years of his work as Minister of Posts and Telecommunications, when the reality of things put Italy in front of the need and urgency to promote a profound reorganization of the national television system. I remember that time and that debate because it is then that Oscar Mammì found himself facing the most delicate, controversial and difficult issue of his entire political career. He had before him a knot that the politics that had preceded him had always escaped, according to the method of postponement that was then so fashionable and that over the years it cost Italy so much. The tangle was very hard to dissolve because of its economic implications (television is a large industry and occupies tens of thousands of workers), social (political and non-political Italy was divided between RAI and Mediaset), political (there was a deep division between right and left) and even democratic (plurality and quality of information were at stake). In addition there was the condition of illegality in which the main private operator operated, which at the time transmitted throughout the national territory without taking into account the prohibitions of law but relying on an absence of controls that ended only by the judiciary. In this context, the costume of time would have suggested that the problem be postponed again to better times. On the other hand, Oscar Mammì did not back down and sought the solution that seemed better to him, considering television not a piece of the mechanism of power in Italy, as a service that the State was obliged to regulate in the interests of citizens. He found the solution in a law that bears his name and that, in essence, decreed the end of the monopoly of RAI, the beginning of the duopoly with Mediaset and the legalization of local private televisions. The law Mammi determined a great opening of the television market, but it also provoked political polemics, resulting in the resignation of several ministers. Today it would be foolish to come back to discuss who was right and who was wrong, I myself, today, am no longer certain of my views at the time. We're talking about almost 30 years ago and everything has changed. In Italy, in addition to RAI, we have three large television companies that cover the whole national territory and the competition has become very hard on audience, as well as advertising. Instead, I want to say something about the person of Oscar Mammi and the conditions in which he matured his decision to enact that law, even knowing, he was a center-left man, that it would be precisely the left who would attack him and oppose him with all his might. In the 1950s John Kennedy, then Senator of Massachusetts, wrote a book on political courage, a book with which he won the Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy supported this thesis: a politician shows courage not when he opposes his opponents (because it is natural that he opposes his political opponents), but when, to support a thesis in which he believes and to do what he thinks can serve his country, he faces political battles even hard against the thought of his own political part, risking the isolation, ostracism and condemnation of his own allies. To me today, commemorating Oscar Mammì, it doesn't matter if his law was then the best possible; instead it matters to know that Oscar Mammì thought that that law served Italy and that, for having it, he even fought with his colleagues in his own political part. It is for this reason that today we can say that Oscar Mammì had that rare dowry that is political courage. We must meditate on this point, because Mammì's teaching also applies to us. It is easy - in Parliament we do it every day and we have done it this morning - to fight against each other, a majority against opposition, but political courage, as we have seen about Oscar Mammì, is something else. Mr President, a very last notation, because it is impossible to speak of Mammì without remembering that he belonged to the illustrious family of the Italian Republican Party, along with Ugo and Giorgio La Malfa, Bruno Visentini, Giovanni Spadolini, Dodo Battaglia, Chinchino Compagna and many others. I have always been in favour of the great mass popular parties and I think that only with their consent can a democracy be guided. However, I also know that without the great school of the small and noble parties of Ugo La Malfa, Giuseppe Saragat and Giovanni Malagodi and their work of stitching the fractures of the country, democracy and the Italian Republic would never have come out strong and vital from the darkness of the post-war period. The Republican Party was a forge and a factory of political leaders; in the many years of the post-war period all parties were, but the Republicans, although numerically so few, were more so than the others. Oscar Mammì was never sectarian, nor maximalist. He was never a demagogue, nor a superficial, nor a moralist. He could afford political courage because he came from that school there and because from that school he had assimilated the principles of the love of Homeland. [[Applause from the PD and Art.1-MDP groups and Senators Liuzzi and Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u12	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, Oscar Mammì, unlike his great friend Claudio Venanzetti, who reminded him of this with Stefano Folli last week, was never a senator. But from the other branch of Parliament and the Government he was more than a protagonist of Republican Italy; and I must say, taking the cue offered by my colleague Zanda on his republican history, that Oscar Mammì began to be very, but long before arriving at the Chamber of Deputies. He arrived there in 1968, but already during the Constitution he was the secretary of the Youth Federation of the Italian Republican Party. For Mammì and for many young and old, the Italian Republican Party was far less modern than it would have boasted to be twenty years later, under the secretariat of Ugo La Malfa, in 1965. For Mammì the Italian Republican Party - also an ideological party, as he once said - was born in a distant, yet indispensable world: the world of the Risorgimento, the Rome that his friend Spadolini told him to evoke, the Rome of Ciceruacchio, the Rome of Angelo Brunetti, the Rome of a very strong secularism, but in search of a coexistence with the Rome of Pius IX, if you want with that of Giulio Andreotti. From this point of view, Mammì was a great teacher of liberal coexistence, between the Rome of Pius IX and the Rome of Ciceruacchio. In fact, Oscar Mammì had a formidable resource: irony and never sarcasm, tolerance always, commitment always, demonization of the opponent as little as possible, indeed never. From this point of view it is therefore right and legitimate to evoke Ugo La Malfa, in the history of Oscar Mammì, but I would evoke above all Oronzo Reale and those resources of intellectual finesse and dedramatization of everything with a joke, which are indispensable in parliamentary democracy. As Paolo Romani recalled with great affection, Oscar Mammì detached himself from politics discreetly, with elegance, but I would not say in silence, because in his own way he wanted to speak. He did so through a small book, entitled "Back to Politics," of the early 1990s. It is a book published by a senator, our colleague for many legislatures, Stefano Passigli, who makes use of a very fine and precious introduction by Antonio Maccanico. At some point in this book, Mammì, proud lover of politics, but with a lot of snobbery towards politology, wrote that a fetish was being made of a question not of politics, but of "water": that is, the electoral system. He obviously had it in the season of "marioscenism." Mammì said on that occasion that if in 1945 in Italy there had been the majority system neither him, nor La Malfa, nor Reale would ever have arrived in Parliament, but above all the political struggle would have a totalizing and totalitarian harshness. Hence the irony with which Mammì said that, at that time, the science of politics and politology had taken the place of politics. When has assemblyism and tolerance for the opinions of others ever been a defect in the history of Italy? Today this "gargarism" against the partycracy is erasing politics and its freedom. After this cry of alarm, Mammì had continued in his detachment and in his good mood: the family, colleague Zanda, but also friends, the game of cards, dedramatizing everything and everyone. As long as he was able to do so, then everything must have a limit: Mammì has abandoned us and many of us in this House and elsewhere feel more alone. From here, Mr President, the condolences of the senators of my Group and the affection that binds us, on days like these, to your family members. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u15	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Oscar Mammì, politician of the Italian Republican Party, is known for having given his name, in 1990, to the first law on the radio and television system, the one that everyone remembers as the certification of the RAI-Fininvest duopoly, at the center of a strong political clash, which provoked the resignation from the government Andreotti, composed of representatives of six parties, of the ministers of the Christian Democrat left: Sergio Mattarella, Mino Martinazzoli, Carlo Fracanzani, Riccardo Misasi and Calogero Mannino, opposed to the green light to the bill, seen as a gift to the Fininvest group owned by Silvio Berlusconi and also to the imposition of the question of trust. Mammì, Roman, born in 1926, graduated in economics and commerce, had started working in the bank before reaching politics and being elected in Parliament in the line of the Italian Republican Party of Ugo La Malfa in 1968. It remained in Parliament until 1993. It's been years since he held important positions in the party and the government. He was Minister for Relations with Parliament from 1983 to 1987 and Minister for Posts from 1987 to 1991: the years in which the problem of the new television set-up was posed, which was resolved with the end of the RAI monopoly and the "legalization" of Fininvest. He managed to bring into port one of the most burning and complicated laws of the Italian order, the one that would put an end to the so-called far west of the ether, exploded after the famous judgment n. 202 of 1976, which had sanctioned the unconstitutionality of the RAI monopoly in the matter of broadcasting. In fact, it was for the most part a legalization, that is, a taking of the consolidated balance following numerous pronouncements of the civil, criminal, administrative and above all constitutional judiciary. Among the most important results achieved by Law No 223 of 1990 was the inhibition of the wild activation of frequencies, which continued for at least fifteen years, leading to a deep instability in the entrepreneurial management of radio and television broadcasters. On the other hand, the law crystallized the system by preventing the entry of new operators (who could only buy existing companies), but finally allowed the structural interconnection in the national context (up to that time it was possible only the functional one, with the so-called chest of drawers), thus opening also to private news. Even today, much of the unique text of radio and television is based on the cornerstones of the Mammì law. In 1993, Oscar Mammì resigned from Parliament. It was the Tangentopoli period, when he resigned from the government for a warranty notice even when there was only suspicion that it could arrive (it seems a very distant period). This suspicion hovered over Mammì after the arrest of David Jacalone, his main collaborator in the drafting of the Television Act. The weather was so poisoned that his party newspaper itself wrote the day of his resignation: We are not hypocrites and in these hours we measure on our skin the whip of shame. It is true, however, that the good Mammì had always had his back straight and of this you must definitely give it an act. A shame that eventually overwhelmed the entire Italian Republican Party, destroying a liberal democratic political capital that had been built around the watchwords of competence and honesty. The MP Mammì did not officially participate in the complicated events of the splits of the party and the diaspora of its leaders in the center-right and center-left. He appeared in public in 2005, when on RAI 3 he took part in "Walter" and "Jada" - the best years of our lives in 2005 - a television re-edition of "Promessi spousi" in the role of "Innominato." On that occasion he pronounced one of the nicest coolnesses by giving a little report cards to the politicians of the First and Second Republics; in this role of the Innominate, he said: Andreotti is perfect. Because it embodies the true power, which can serve evil but also good. And he also had it for the legists: the role of the "bravi" gave him to Bossi, Calderoli and Castelli. "But they're fake bad," he explained, "they play to show the knife, but they never use it. Of the good for good, he was convinced, and admitted that one who makes politics or is a good actor or does not make it. As a result, Pinocchio's role entrusted him to Silvio Berlusconi. For D'Alema evoked the role of the Count of Montecristo: "right mix of cynicism and lucidity." An ironic and cultured picture, seasoned by a clear nostalgia: I have experienced a great season, that of the parties: today is the season of the characters. He thought that: "The power after all is always that. Our democracy has changed for sure, certainly for the worse: once we worked to build consensus, now we try to know where the wind goes and we follow it. Then silence and a long illness. And a book about Scopone, that card game he loved to play with Pertini, and he said, It should be taught in schools of good policy as a compulsory subject. We as a group greet Oscar Mammì's daughter and, with a little delay, make condolences to the whole family. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u18	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, our Group also expresses its closeness to the family and daughter Alessandra for the loss of a father, who has been a great politician and minister for us. I say: "for us" because my Group also includes socialists and Republicans such as Denis Verdini, myself, Mazzoni, Pagnoncelli and others who, in that season, were close to the political climate that represented Oscar Mammì. I cannot fail to recall that Oscar Mammì was Minister for relations with Parliament during the longest Government of the Italian Republic led by Bettino Craxi, when Italy became the fifth economic power in the world. Mammì managed to maintain relations with Parliament in a wonderful way and let us not forget that, when the battle was about to come to an end with the closure of all the Berlusconian television stations (at that time the order came from the judiciary, the Constitutional Court and its judgments), the Government and that Minister for relations with Parliament managed to pass a special decree issued by the then President of the Council Bettino Craxi, which prevented these broadcasters from being excluded from the provision of obscuration. Minister Oscar Mammì passed through the Goria, De Mita and Andreotti Governments and during the Andreotti Government there was his famous organic law, which is still linked to his name, on broadcasting broadcasting, including the discipline on advertising, antitrust roofs and crossroads with traditional publishing. Well, in 1990 they also had to pass over the resignation of five ministers of the then central-left government. I remember a visit to Hammamet at Bettino Craxi during which he reminded me that the Communist Party, by name and account of its leader Gerardo Chiaromonte, said to vote no, but did not prevent this important law being passed because there was the trust and then young person responsible for communication, Walter Veltroni, said it was a necessary law and of great breath. The decree-law, in fact, lapsed at midnight and the confidence was voted at 23.30, convincing four members of the Communist Party not to intervene. The fact that Bettino Craxi with Minister Mammì managed to bind themselves to this important passage produced the important passage of giving RAI 3 to the Communist Party. This is how the events of that time took place. I would like to thank President Zanda for his words for the small parties. If there had been a 5% barrier, we would not have had the Mammì, Spadolini or La Malfa in Parliament. We could not have heard President Zanda say that these were enlightened politicians who made Italy great. That's why I think he was a great legislator, and we thank him. I was pleased to listen to Senator Council, who wanted to remember his last interesting and beautiful weakness that was to recite in the fiction "Walter" and "Jada" inspired by "The Promised Marriages" and transmitted on RAI 3, and of course produced by Endemol. What I regret is the fact that he, like so many others who made Italy great, was unjustly and brutally insulted and removed from politics and government from what was a media-judicial revolution, when we still needed them. These obviously paid, while the executioners continue to rage in Italy and to be at the center of the political scene. Thank you, Oscar Mammì, for everything you've done for our country. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u21	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Oscar Mammì missed him on 10 June. He was born in Rome in 1926 and since 1946, at the age of twenty, he had chosen military in the Republican ranks, during the campaign on the institutional referendum. After graduating in economics and commerce, he had started working at the Banco di Napoli, performing trade union roles and continuing his militant political activity in the ranks of the party of the ivy, which was, as for many of his generation, his great school of political formation. In 1968 he was elected for the first time in Parliament, where he remained until 1994, alongside the activity of deputy that of member of the Government, first as Undersecretary to industry and commerce and then, during the eighties, as Minister for relations with Parliament in the first and second Craxi Government, Minister of Posts and Telecommunications in the Governments Goria and De Mita and in the sixth Andreotti Government. Its name is indissolubly as unduly linked to the so-called Mammì law on the reform of the radio and television system, but this fact has helped to obscure the rest of its long and qualified legislative activity, which I would like to propose here at least in a salient point. First of all, as President of the Internal Commission, he acted as a great mediator who led to the demilitarization, unionization and openness of the women's recruitment of the State Police, with Law No 121 of 1981, in hard and complex years such as those in which the State and the institutions had to face and overcome the emergency of terrorism. With regard to the Mammi Broadcasting Act, it should be remembered that the initial draft reform remained in the drawers and that the version voted by Parliament, which would take its name, did not have a signatory and was the result of a downward compromise between the various political forces. As is well known, the impulse of Craxi's PSI was decisive, which imposed a vote of confidence on the Government. The measure regulated the public and private broadcasting system, in charge of photographing de iure the de facto monopoly of the entrepreneur Silvio Berlusconi in the field of television, in the fundamental sphere of advertising collection and establishing that his three private networks, in a duopoly regime with RAI, would have to equip themselves with special news. To protest against the approval of that law, as many as five Christian Democrat ministers - as Senators Paolo Romani recalled - belonging to the left of the party, resigned on July 27, 1990 from the government, but were moved without injury by the President of the Council Andreotti. This is the date of the beginning of the Italian Carambola 1990-1993, in which they defined themselves as structures of power, conflicts of interest and long-term political alliances in the internal and international spheres. Mammì went through the season of the so-called First Republic, the political and civil protagonism of the parties, with discipline, honor and a good dose of pungent irony. Although we did not know him in person, we imagine that he looked with detachment and disenchanted at the new phase of the "democracy" of the character in recent years. Not by chance, he withdrew from active political life, in silence, after the implosion of that system due to the crisis of Tangentopoli and had more time to dedicate himself to the passion of a life, that of scientific scope, and to the cult of Rome and Romanity, in particular that sung by the scratching verses of Gioacchino Belli. On behalf of Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement, I wish to offer our condolences to all the family members, to those who loved him and in particular to his daughter Alessandra. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u24	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if, after twenty-five years after the end of the parliamentary activity, Oscar Mammì is mentioned in this House with the words of respect and consideration that have been addressed to him by all the colleagues who preceded me, obviously this important figure of our parliamentary Republic has left a mark, in the activity and the path that Oscar Mammì has traced of his political history as the most influential leader of the Republican Party, of politician who has carried out his parliamentary activity through twenty years of history, from 1972 to 1992 (no fewer than five legislatures), of man of government, with positions of Undersecretary before and Minister after. I believe that the tribute of remembrance and appreciation that has been heard in this House is firmly based on one particular characteristic, namely that of coherence, which emerges in a precise and precise way, regardless of the assessments of merit that can be made on the effectiveness of the political action of Minister Mammi and which are attributable to that value that has represented and represents the distinguishing figure of those engaged in the institutions. Well, reading the parliamentary acts, the speeches made in the Chamber of Deputies I believe that the great coherence that Oscar Mammì has maintained over time in relation to the heritage of values of secularism of the Republican Party emerges with absolute clarity. He was certainly a cultured man, of great culture, but also endowed with great political wit, with a great sense of irony and loyalty, more inclined and inclined to the activity of mediation and composition between different positions than to walk the path of confrontation. I believe that his activity has found, after his political commitment, a singular and significant response also in the TV fiction to which he referred, when, in the role of the innominated, he participated in the fiction "Walter" and "Jada" inspired by "I promised to be married." He himself argued, in an interview, that one who makes politics or is a good actor or does not make it and he also did the actor. It was also significant the meaning that gave to the interpretation of the role of the unnamed. He said that the representation of power always had the same characteristics over time: power is always that, what changes is democracy. Mammì said: in time, we worked first to build consensus; today instead we try to understand where the consent goes and then we settle accordingly. This is the consistency, I believe, the best lesson, which represents the legacy of Oscar Mammì, with which we give strength to the tribute of memories that we wanted to witness in this Chamber, to which tribute is also joined by the Group of Great Autonomouss and Freedoms, expressing the mindful thought, grateful and solidarity with his family. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u27	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will be very brief, not because the figure of Oscar Mammì does not deserve to speak for a long time about his political and personal history, but because I have little to add to what my previous colleagues have said. I wasn't lucky enough to meet Oscar Mammì personally, so I didn't have anecdotes to tell, except one that I noticed reading his biography and that struck me, one of his interviews, which highlights his ability to express very acute and still very current political reflections. He said during one of these interviews: I had a great time on the occasion of his television appearance. The Innomed is the representation of power, which has equal characteristics over time. The power is always that, it has changed certain, and worse, our democracy: once we worked to build consensus, now we try to know where the wind goes and we follow it. A blow to a short-sighted policy, unable to look to the future and build a ruling class worthy of this name, as perched in the preservation of the existing. Mammì represented a long, memorable, proud part of the history of Italian republicanism. He was always convinced that the Italian crisis could only be overcome through political commitment and certainly not through institutional or judicial solutions. We hope that these words and what we have heard in this House will not fall into the void and that there will be a constant effort in the active political commitment of the new generations. We at Alternativa Popolare, also respecting the stories of belonging to many of us to the Republican traditions and, in the past, to the Republican Party, we join the memory of Oscar Mammì and we are close to the family and relatives all. [[Senator Colucci's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u28	Colleagues, the Presidency joins the expressions of remembrance that all the Groups have addressed to the figure of Mr Oscar Mammì, who, as the speeches have pointed out, has been an absolute protagonist of political, democratic and parliamentary life. Obviously the memory of some important legislative passages, not only linked to a law that marked a fundamental moment in parliamentary and democratic life, but also of his love for political life. I want to remind him, also as a Roman, as a protagonist of Roman political life; this trait has also been remembered. I cannot but add a personal memory of when, in 2002, Mammì was long away from Parliament and we had a debate, promoted by Bruno Vespa, at the time when I had to innovate in the field of television the legislation that he had carried out and that had changed Italian life a lot. Even today, some distinguished colleagues have said important things about this. I believe that the world has moved on and has been further innovated. For me it was therefore a reference, in the debate and in the debate, in the processes of modernising information and the radio and television system and in the enrichment of pluralism. Before remembering with a minute's recollection Mr Oscar Mammì, the Government also expressed, with Deputy Minister Morando, the desire to associate itself with the memory of such an important politician.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u29	Mr President, I would just like to add that the Government supports the memory of Oscar Mammì and the mourning for his disappearance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u30	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence in memory of Oscar Mammì. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u31	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00738, tabled by Senator Augello and other senators, 1-00743, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00798, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, 1-00800 (text 2), presented by Senator Gotor and other senators, and 1-00802, presented by Senator Centinario and other senators, on the Council summits. I remember that in the afternoon session the illustration of the motions began. I call Senator Tosato to explain motion No 802.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u32	Mr President, I will use less time because we want to get to the vote on these motions soon. He's lost too much time. First of all, we would like to make a judgment on what happened this morning, because we consider it very serious that the Democratic Party and the majority have tried to minimize the gravity of the Council affair. We are not talking here about political instrumentalizations, as has been clumsyly stated in this morning's debate, but about serious cases of corruption. It is not yet clear, of course, the level of involvement of the institutional figures accused, but the facts must be established. And we don't like the attitude of the government and the majority: when the investigations concern their partners, the PD is guarantor; when they involve the political opponents, it becomes legalist. We've gotten used to it. This attitude no longer surprises us and, fortunately, the citizens have also understood your game and your hypocrisy. But let's come to the Consip affair. Consip manages million-dollar tenders for public administration. When these roles were assigned it was known that it would move great interests. Excellent controls and a great deal of attention would have been needed. On the other hand, the judicial investigations, inevitably, have revealed serious cases of corruption. (Following TOSATO). We witnessed the arrest of the entrepreneur Alfredo Romeo, who would have corrupted Council officials and promised money to Tiziano Renzi, father of the then President of the Council and the current Secretary of the Democratic Party. We have witnessed the notice of guarantee to a Minister, Luca Lotti. Not just any minister. For other ministers, much less serious incidents have come the resignation. Not for Lotti. He's one of the Magic Lily. One of Matteo Renzi's most discussed collaborators. Everything is allowed and forgiven to him. Accused of informing Council leaders of the existence of ongoing investigations, he is still in his place. He is still a powerful Minister of the Republic. The CEO of Consip, Luigi Marroni, would have confirmed to the judiciary the truthfulness of these circumstances, and that is perhaps why he must leave. For months he was asked to deal with the Council affair in Parliament. The majority allowed it only after the resignation of the members of the board of directors Luigi Ferrara and Marialaura Ferrigno. So we wonder if these were random circumstances, spontaneous resignation, unrelated facts. Honestly, it's hard to think. In any case, we would like to respond to President Zanda and the Democratic Party, who talk about an outdated and case-solved issue, which we absolutely do not agree with: the decadence of the Board of Directors of Consip does not solve anything. It does not solve scandals, criminal responsibilities and even political ones. You didn't want this debate. You wanted to cover it up. But you will not succeed, despite your hypocrisy and arrogance! It is now clear that the Government, the PD and Renzi want to get rid of the board of directors of Consip and especially of its managing director only because he spoke, he collaborated with the judiciary; because he is the one who with his statements has put in trouble Luca Lotti, Renzi's friend. You don't really want to put order in Consip. We are witnessing a settlement of accounts within the majority. Renzi and PD just want to clean up men involved in very serious and dangerous investigations, who even touched the chief's family, his friends, his associates. This whole thing has little to do with politics. In this affair the leaders of a system of power seem to be involved who want to defend themselves from investigations, shift the attention of public opinion, find a single scapegoat, remove obstacles, remove uncomfortable witnesses. We in the North League are not accepting this vile charade. We demand the truth; the citizens demand it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We want to know in the end whether we have been governed by decent men or by a business committee. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u33	I note that Senator Augello has tabled a rewording of motion No. 738 at his first signature, whose text is being distributed. Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u34	Madam President, this debate seems paradoxical to me, above all because of the attitude of the opposition and part of the majority: an obstinacy, however illogical, since the assumptions have also fallen, to a large extent, to want to discuss at all costs motions not so much to really understand what happened in the Council, as someone has said, but - this is the truth - to point the finger once again towards the Government, and especially towards Minister Lotti. Complaints based only on illations that have no foundation. This seems even more paradoxical and illogical to me because I believe there is much more to be said about the Council affair, much more to be discussed. I am referring to the investigation of the misdirection: an investigation based not on assumptions, but on clear interceptions, I would say unequivocal. All this to the detriment of the then president of the Council Matteo Renzi. This is, in my view, a very serious, unacceptable fact, which should raise a unanimous chorus of indignation on the part of all political forces; a unanimous chorus of indignation and a request for clarification, yes. This is so serious because it concerns all of us; it concerns the democracy of this country. Colleagues, I don't know about you, but I am literally tired of these twenty years of ideological confrontation that has paralysed our country, which has led to the most total immobilism, which has led to the social and political crisis in which it finds itself today. For this reason, I appeal here today to everyone, to a greater sense of responsibility because I am certain of one thing, that there is a lesson that we should have learned already for some time and that we should still learn today, because what has happened in these twenty years is the responsibility of all, that is that with the ideological confrontation nobody, neither outside nor here, will win, but once again our country will lose. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Berger and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u35	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u36	Madam President, I do not think that today's debate is paradoxical. On the contrary, I would like to point out, in relation to my previous colleague, that at least the first-signed motion by Senator Augello, signed by me (we were all members of the opposition at the time), not only did he have no obstinacy in formulating a complaint against Minister Lotti, but he tried to disarm Parliament's bad habits, and this branch of Parliament, in any case to put before that useless, grotesque and Jacobin instrument of the individual motion of distrust against the individual Minister. This is quite a long story, since this instrument was introduced into our Rules of Procedure. A professor of parliamentary law, who then became a senator and our colleague, of a certain authority, not of the opposition of center-right, but of the Democratic Party (I speak of Professor Andrea Manzella), called it an unnecessary institutional gadget, in the sense that, from the point of view of constitutional policy, the vote of confidence is a link that links the Government institution to the institution of Parliament and, therefore, not of incardination to the executive of the individual Minister. The gymnastics according to which, from the case of Filippo Mancuso on (we were in the mid-nineties), as soon as there is an affair in some way linked to the prosecution, ask for the resignation of the Minister and present an individual motion of distrust, is a snare. On the other hand, it is in our Rules of Procedure. Along with those 72 colleagues from the Augello motion a few months ago, we tried to discuss other matters in the Senate than the one on which the Senate had been urged. On that occasion President Grasso, much less colloquial and helpful this morning, was very archigno and said that this, for the time being, could not be discussed. Hence our appreciation for not having received a response this morning that this could have been discussed only after 27 June. That would have been very elusive by a Parliamentary Assembly. The behaviour of the individual Minister and his delegations, inter alia in the field of sport, has nothing to do with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The problem - excuse me if it is little, I look forward very passionately to the intervention of a representative of the Government like Morando - is the story of public spending in Italy. The Council has been included in our order - I understand hearing the statutory diatribe - a little "head of the head" because in what should have been, at the top of the Republican State, the central purchasing authority of the public administration prevailed the policy "political." I am a guarantor, indeed psychologically I am an innocentist and therefore prescinding from the profiles of law and criminal procedure. Among the characters who are agitated around this story is the entrepreneur Romeo (I know him, we are almost peers), of which I do not question the not guilty. But Romeo is one of those who arrive at Confindustria after being carefully spent on a political affair. The character comes from the so-called "Right Neapolitan Communist," that is the world of the PCI-PDS. What does this entrepreneur do? What business do you have? It deals with the management of the purchases of the public administration, that is, the distribution of the public expenditure. We find in this case very strong political reference profiles in his mediation activity. Moreover, in my opinion, the regional institute in Italy is nothing more than the result of a strong need for political mediation in public spending. This is the judgment of many. Yesterday we heard the report by Yoram Gutgeld, the Commissioner responsible for the revision of expenditure: the controller, the one who takes stock of the cuts so far insufficiently made. Which is the interpretation of your report, what is your diagnosis? Public spending in Italy is a big affair with a predominantly political-institutional profile. In the name of this privilege and politics intended exclusively as mass moralism, this issue and this debate have been held for three months outside the Parliamentary Assembly. Hence my appreciation for the procedure we have followed this morning and for my part, for the full agreement (even in the rewording that Mr Augello did not have the opportunity to explain) to motion No 738. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u37	Madam President, I apologise to my colleagues for not asking to speak in the commemoration of Mr Mammì, but I would like to associate myself with the expressions of condolence towards his family and with the regret for his disappearance. I also agree with the memory that some of my colleagues have made Oscar Mammì. However, having white hair, let me say, without offense to anyone, that I also remember the polemics of those times, in which Mammì was the important protagonist of a great project of reform of the Italian radio and television system, and the considerations made then are not so much in line with those I heard today in this House. It must be said, because after death we all become good, while when you are alive you have to say what you think and you have to do what you mean and not always like. And that is what I must do today, in the sense that I must say that I signed the Augello motion because in March of this year no one raised the problem of an indispensable clarification on the part of those who had the task of naming and also removing the members of the Management Board and the Presidency of the Council. In that motion, arguments were advanced, and then, I appreciated, they were included in Senator Zanda's first-signed motion. So today, considering this to be more topical, beyond the fact that I believe that Mr Augello has reworded his motion, I agree with Senator Zanda's first signature of motion No 798. At the same time, I should like to draw attention to one aspect mentioned by my colleague, Mr Zanda, concerning Oscar Mammì; that is, the political courage to say certain things. And then it is necessary that future appointments of the members of the Board of Directors of the Council be more accurate and appropriate to the third role that belongs to an institution such as the Council. As I have already said on other occasions concerning the debate on the motion of no confidence in Mr Lotti, it is obvious that we are not doing judicial investigations in this House, but judicial investigations must be carried out by the judiciary, in compliance with guarantees, and against anyone. In particular, in this situation, they must be carried out with regard to those who have been involved in the Council affair, but also those judicial magistrates and police officers who have certainly carried out activities which are not in line with the role, or at least whose consistency with the duty of the function must be verified by the judicial authority. We must make political choices. Let me then take a very brief look at the national and also regional companies which must oversee the function of the contracting institution. I'm not sure everything's going well. I say this to the representatives of the Government and I also draw the attention of certain judiciary to some regional societies. I want to make a name for everyone: So.Re.Sa, the purchase management company of the Campania Region, on which I sent reports both to the judicial authority, and to the National Anti-corruption Authority, without receiving an answer. It is necessary to light a very strong light on the activities of these institutions, which - I repeat - must play an absolutely third role and cannot be available to prepack photographs that are already legible for future recipients of the supplies. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few words to say, but they denounce a worrying situation. We cannot just call for clarification on the part of others, we must also call for clarification on those realities that derive from our responsibility and the majorities that we support. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u39	Madam President, I would like to make a very brief comment on the subject of the debate on motions for resolutions concerning the Council. The first political consideration is that we have noticed that the government and the majority are trying to compress the debate and democratic instruments when the subject is not to their liking. We have seen the ballet on the referendum on vouchers and we have now seen an attempt to postpone the debate on motions on the Council. From this, of course, we get a confirmation of the feeling that we possibly want to put Parliament on the sidelines when we discuss sensitive issues. The second consideration is of a personal nature. As has already been said, we have no tradition as to personal complaints against government representatives, especially as a result of indications and investigations by the judiciary. These assessments are based on the desirability of the individual or the political forces or coalitions to which they belong. We simply point out that often in these events, the majority and the present government use double standards. However, I repeat that this is not up to us. This is an internal debate by the majority and, as far as we are concerned, there are no particular exceptions. The third assessment, which I believe to be the most relevant, is that some important considerations for the country should have been noted from this debate on Consip. The basic problem is whether Consip actually responds today to the motivations of its institution or whether it has not been used, in a growing Rossinian of competences and dimensions, which should ultimately lead the country and Parliament to reflect on its role. I would like to remind you that financial manoeuvres have been built on the work of the Council: important parts of financial laws, especially in relation to the possibilities of spending, derive from the alleged savings that the Council's activity can bring in the panorama of public expenditure; savings that not only have not occurred, but that are still to be found, but in the financial laws we continue to indicate the savings of the Council as one of the possible forms of financing of new expenditure. (17.46) (Follow D'ALI'). The other consideration to be made is why Consip continues to grow larger. Unfortunately, from what emerges from the data, the contracts of Consip become bigger and bigger and we know very well that with the size of the contracts increase the appetites and the margins to do things that should not be done. Therefore, this debate should not be confined to personalistic aspects or procedural aspects (the Council members resigned: were they spontaneous resignation or "punished"? Were they instrumental resignations?). This concerns the country relatively (or at least should concern relatively), but instead we need a detailed and thorough reflection on the role of Council and, for example, on the effects that it continues to delegate to Council competences and functions has, as a reflection, on the activity of local authorities, very often forced to pursue the competitions of Council and to pay the supplies at a higher price than they could find on the local markets of reference. Let's open this reflection on Consip. I understand that it is difficult and that the Ministry of Economy and Finance - as I said just now - bases many calculations on Consip, in my opinion absolutely not responding to the reality of the facts, on the savings and the margins of use of supposed savings. Financial laws always give more and more tasks to the Council. That is precisely the subject that should be under discussion. Consip should be more a regulator of public administration expenditure prices than a real contracting authority for very large national expenditure. So, if this reflection comes out of the debate, then we will certainly do something useful for the country, but if we limit ourselves to short-range considerations, not to mention shop, then we will have consumed once again a rite that produces nothing useful and that limits us much in our parliamentary autonomy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u40	The debate is closed. I note that Senator De Petris has tabled a rewording of motion No. 743, at her first signature. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u41	Mr President, I come straight to the wording of the opinions, because it will be through the opinion that we will understand the view and assessment of the Government on this issue at our time. First of all, I am in favour of motion No 798, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. In fact - this is the reason for the favourable opinion - it takes explicit and positive note of the new developments that have taken place during the last few days and commits the Government to develop its initiative and to exercise its functions in the new phase that has opened with the decay of the board of directors (because decadence has been on the basis of the resignation of the two members of which we have already spoken), strictly respecting the legislation and the regulations in force. These are not only laws, but also regulations and directives concerning appointments in participating companies, controlled, owned by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Therefore, the motion tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators addresses the issue that has opened at this stage in the light of an explicit address: it notes, as has recently been stated also by the Minister of the economy, the need to protect the absolutely crucial function of Council to improve the efficiency of public spending and to achieve significant savings on the acquisition of goods and services and, positively assessing what has intervened, it commits the Government to making appointments that are consistent with the importance that Council has at this time. The opinion would also be in favour of motion No 738 (text 2), which sees Senator Augello as the first signatory, if the proposers agreed to take a split vote. On the part of the premises and motivations, the Government's opinion is opposed. On the part of the provisions, that of the commitments to the Government, the latter is in favour of the first and third commitments, while instead it is not in favour - and I explain quickly the reasons - of the second commitment. Only after the investigation referred to in point 3 of the proposal - I believe that the proposers can agree - will the need to intervene with a suspension of tenders be taken into account. But we cannot first commit ourselves to suspending competitions by means of a journalistic statement by someone and then commit ourselves to verifying through an administrative inquiry whether these pressures, in fact, have been and have manifested their effects on this or that race. For this reason, if they were to agree with the proposal that I am making, there should only be a small change, merely formal but following the assumption of an opinion contrary to the second commitment, because in the third line of the third commitment it should be written that it defines the size of these possible undue pressures and not of this type of undue pressures, as set out in the current text, because clearly this wording is the one consistent with the presence in the device of point 2, which I propose to delete. The opinion on the other motions is opposed. For some the opposition is concentrated on the motivational part, while for others on the challenging part because they seem not to take full note of the novelties that have occurred at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u42	Senator Augello, do you accept the reformulations?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u43	Mr President, on point 2 of the proposal, we agree with Deputy Minister Morando. There is a logical explanation that we have already exchanged out of the microphone and, that is, that the motion dates back to a hundred days ago when there were some competitions of the Council, which were revised, which were affected by such a problem. Historically the data is exceeded. On the other hand, if we discuss motions a hundred days later, that can only be the case. It is the time span that separates the battle of Waterloo from the world without Napoleon. It's not cheap. It is clear that the problem is overcome. I have heard all the other signatories and we are all in agreement that point 2 should be deleted with the changes indicated by Deputy Minister Morando, who refer to the administrative inquiry on further and possible competitions that had been marked by this type of phenomena and negotiations. In that case, they'd be blocked. So, that's okay with us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u47	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I declare my Group's vote, however, let me express my sincere satisfaction and let me thank Senator Andrea Augello and the 73 colleagues who signed the motion that gave rise to this debate. A hundred days ago, when our motion was tabled, there were pathological relations between business and politics under discussion in the Council case and an investigation compromised by a resounding leak of news. In the meantime, a third figure has been added: the alleged alteration of certain elements related to another strand of investigation. As far as we are concerned, we have never thought that criminal proceedings should enter this House. But we have rejected with equal firmness the idea that non-interference in the work of the judiciary could be an alibi to avoid even the judgment on political-institutional behavior. And then, if it is not up to us to determine who between Luca Lotti and Luigi Marroni is telling the truth and who is lying, it is certainly up to us to say that the Government, when it chooses to take sides, cannot stand up at the same time as defending the one and the other, the accused and the accuser, the so-called slanderer and the alleged slanderer. Again. Leaving justice to the courts does not mean not taking note that certain behaviours publicly claimed by the CEO of the Council supplement a manifest violation of the Code of Ethics. It does not mean not to note that the owner of the Ministry that the Council is a single member has changed his mind with the same ease with which one changes the wardrobe with the first warm ones. It took a hundred days for this to be discussed in this House. And still in the last hours and days important things have happened: the PD has decided to join with its own motion to the request to zero the top of the society. In doing so, however, he did not remain neutral in the judicial confrontation between Lotti and Marroni, but took a position for the first. This is the point that differentiates our position from that of PD. Meanwhile, the Minister who had always defended the remaining office of the CEO, worked to bring down the entire board of directors, obtaining the resignation of two out of three advisors, but not those of Marroni. Among the resignations, the president of Consip Luigi Ferrara, who in the same hours was investigated for false statements to the prosecutor about that same leak of news that had been the ground of confrontation between Marroni and Lotti. In short, it is clear that the events on the eve have strengthened the reasons for the need for a parliamentary debate. A debate that could have been faced a hundred days ago, but which nevertheless a hundred days later has finally put an end to a situation of blatant and unsustainable contradiction. As far as we are concerned, Mr President, we claim the linearity of an institutionally rigorous position, but nothing has ever granted to justiceism. We claim as a victory for ourselves and for colleagues who have joined us in this long battle the zeroing of an inadequate leadership to lead the most important contracting station in our country. We claim that it is a victory that this debate has taken place, and that it has taken place with a civil approach and according to a physiological dynamic between Parliament and the Government, where Parliament has highlighted the inconsistencies of the Government and called it back to its tasks. We also claim to have placed all the protagonists of the affair, starting with the CEO of the Council, under the best conditions, even formal, to say everything they know. Finally, we claim that we have made it clear in the eyes of the country who wants clarity and who instead does everything to conceal the truth. In thanking the Senate once again for the test of maturity, I announce for this reason the favorable vote of the Federation of Freedom Group to the first-signed motion of Senator Augello and to the first-signed motion of Senator De Petris, leaving freedom on the other motions, on which we will not vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u50	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, what happened today in the Senate House really has some surrealism: we started this morning with the request by the Democratic Party to postpone - or rather to cover up - this debate. That there was a cover-up target was evident from what was read in the newspapers. Yes, because if the debate has taken a hundred days to reach the Senate Chamber, in the newspapers and in public opinion it is extremely lively and lively and has tones that call worrying is a euphemism. You see, Mr President, when I found myself reading this morning, as many other citizens have read from the columns of the Republic, excerpts of what happened in the interrogation of the President of Consip Ferrara, the question I asked myself is whether this is a country based on seriousness or on business and on chores. At a time when we read of a retraced deposition, of a situation in which there is the general commander of the Carabinieri's weapon that is called into question for matters that at other times would have produced the interevent of the Martial Court, when there is a condition for which a Minister of the Government is called into question, when there is a condition for which there are elements from workers who are constantly hidden by members of the Government, it is to be wondered what country you have made ours. I read directly from the newspaper article: In short, it is the chronicle of a suicidal deposition that of Ferrara. In which the resigning president of Consip puts himself in the condition of who or has lied before (to the pm of Naples) or is lying afterwards (to the pm of Rome). And that, moreover, in the inconclusive tones that at some point it would have assumed - to the point of making impossible even the summary verbalization of its statements and to advise the immediate interruption of the act with the contestation of the "false or reluctant information to the prosecutor" - suggests the idea of a man prisoner of untenable or incomparable pressures. This is the alarming description that is being made and in front of it this morning we were faced with the Democratic Party's attempt to postpone this debate further. However, if we have come to the debate, it is not because of the divine will to make it clear, but because there is an opposition like ours that does not want to discount the nefariousness that this Government has been doing for too long now. Today you have identified a scapegoat and the paradox is that the CEO of Consip goes to report to the magistrates and today he is placed on the bench of the defendants by the Government and the PD with the motion in which he basically identifies himself as the responsible for the situation, leaving totally intact and not citing the responsibilities of the minister and then undersecretary Lotti. Today you can quietly make a good face playing a bad game by pretending nothing, but you have to be aware that the country can not more of this way of doing it as friends of the neighborhood, indeed as friends of the loggia of the neighborhood. This, in fact, is the situation with which you are characterized by the Government: you are making friends of the lodge that do business to the Government and this is something that you cannot afford and that, above all, you cannot afford the country. Then there is the paradox that part of the majority, MDP, is opposed to the remaining part with a motion. We in our act of direction clearly say that we are opposed to any pressure made against the only person, that is, Marroni, who at this moment went to the judiciary to tell the truth, to lay down. We therefore ask how you can reconcile the inconsistency of remaining in a government that rejects the motion by which you would like to make it clear and instead you will accept that the majority of government votes against, but you will immediately be willing to vote for the future confidence of this Executive. Obviously you do this to keep alive a legislature that in the interests of citizens no longer makes sense, but that objectively continues to have it and therefore to exist in the shady interest of those who belong to the Government, Lotti and his group of affiliates. Then I wonder about the coherence of the other part of the majority: I think of the Alfano party, which perhaps more than MDP has found a particular balance of coherence. How are you going to deal with this vote? Will it support or reject the motions, like ours, that ask to make clarity with respect to a Government that, when it was the moment, bent that party, immediately put Lupi in fault, had Vicari, with Alfano who immediately bent against Renzi? Today, however, at a time when a government minister is on the stand of the accused and is accused of the worst nefariousness, you keep him to save him, only to maintain a term of legislature that the citizens would no longer allow you to have going to the vote. We will not vote for anything that puts pressure on those who have gone to bear witness before justice. It is you who take this responsibility, because now the stench of what you are doing is not only felt in this House, but it is read every day in the newspapers. And I am referring to the morning newspapers and those published on the web, which have once again reported the attempt by the Democratic Party and Secretary Renzi, through the speeches he has made to the leader Zanda, to cover up the issue by proposing to postpone it. As I said this morning, President Zanda, time is a great actor and always finds an excellent solution for the final. The only final we can wish this Government is that the legislature will immediately end with a vote against and finally put the Government in front of its responsibilities. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u53	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, by Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement, the distinctive feature of the Consip affair is, as Senator Gotor recalled in his speech this morning, the combination of business, politics and institutions, which is evident from the narrow networks, the friendly ties, the favors and pressures that are being told us. In this context, focusing on Council summits alone is, in our opinion, limiting, insufficient and, in some respects, misleading. Our motion, although amputated in the device, retains a trait that distinguishes it from all the others: in our motion, in fact, and only in ours, it is affirmed as indispensable the indissolubility of the bond between the events of the minister for sport Luca Lotti and those of the managing director of Consip, Dr Luigi Marroni. That is why we will vote in favour of our motion, while we will vote against the others. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u56	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE believes that it would have been appropriate to postpone the parliamentary debate on the motions on the Council case. The resignation of two of the three board members of the Council of Ministers means, according to the Statute, the resignation of the entire body; the resignation of which Minister Padoan informed the Assembly by a letter from President Grasso at the opening of this morning's session. With regard to the motions that had placed the Government's commitment to the suspension of the delegations to the Minister of Sport Luca Lotti, we share the judgment of inproposability, out of extraneousness of matter, expressed by President Grasso. We have always hoped and supported a balanced reading and inspired by the indispensable principles of caution of the Council case, whereas, on the contrary, we must unfortunately note that the need for full transparency has been manipulated by some for reasons totally instrumental, trying improperly and unfoundedly to call into question responsibilities of government. Given the importance of the Council system, instead we consider it a priority for the government to proceed quickly to the renewal of the summits, choosing between high profile personalities and competence. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-MAIE-PSI votes in favour of the first-signed motion Zanda and the first-signed motion Augello, limited to points 1) and (3). [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u59	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, the Council affair confronts us with the need to protect important public interests by means of balanced and balanced evaluation. The Council, as a public limited company of the Ministry of Economy, its sole shareholder, operates according to its strategic guidelines at the exclusive service of the public administration. The results in this direction, as highlighted in some of the motions under discussion today, are certainly positive. Without entering the details again, just remember that, in the last three years, the savings accumulated by the public area thanks to the action of the Council are estimated in more than 11 billion euros. But why, then, do some motions require the replacement of the top management of the company? Obviously the answer is to be found in the facts, even criminally relevant, that have involved on the one hand participants in the contests banned from Consip and on the other its top executives, as well as some political representatives. The complex of situations highlighted casts a heavy shadow on the opportunity to allow the management of the company to continue to the people in charge so far. On the one hand I would not like to go into the details of the investigation, articulated in different strands, composed of different disputes to different subjects and complicated also from the technical point of view. In this respect, we must reiterate the need to respect the work of the judiciary, renewing full confidence in the investigators. We are sure that they will be able to conduct the operations in such a way as to accurately and consistently reconstruct the dynamics of the facts, even by correcting some distortions that have also occurred, as we all know. In this context, the role played by the Council summits in relation to certain interactions and, in some cases, external interferences by subjects in various ways interested in the performance of the procedures for the award of lots of which the macro tender is composed (in particular the tender of the so-called facility management, FM4) have become public domain, responding to the duties of office and the precautions due. Regardless of the disputes surrounding the criminal investigation, here we are called to assess the appropriateness of the conduct of the Council leaders, first in the light of the constitutional rules: in Articles 54, 97 and 98, the Charter tells us that the public employees are at the exclusive service of the nation and carry out the public functions entrusted to them with discipline and honor, in the framework of an organization aimed at ensuring the good performance and impartiality of the administration. The Senate, as a constitutional body with the power of direction and administrative political control over the work of the Government and, more generally than the administration, has the duty to urge the Executive to ensure with every possible initiative the maximum transparency and legitimacy in the work of a company controlled by the Ministry of Economy. 18.16 (Followed by Mr Mancuso). The commitment of the first-signed motion Zanda aims precisely to restore the highest degree of credibility to the actions of the parties and the institutional activities of the company, taking note of the resignation of the representatives of the MEF from the Board of Directors Council, from which derives the legal necessity to renew the entire council. The only possibility to restore political dignity and confidence in the future policies of the Council is to give, with courage, a sign of complete discontinuity with the past, while waiting for individual criminal responsibilities to be established and, if necessary, sanctioned by the judiciary. Precisely in this direction, the first-signed motion of Senator Zanda, who will therefore have the favorable vote of the Group of Popular Alternatives, as well as our vote in favour of points 1) and 3) of the first-signed motion of Senator Augello, moves. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u62	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, today, when I illustrated the motion at my first signing of the Italian Left Group, I had put forward a number of questions and also requests for clarification to the Government. For the truth, from today's long-awaited debate, for weeks and weeks, as we continued to read news in the newspapers, all those who signed the motion on the Council (at least ours and the one at the first signature of Senator Augello) thought that there would be a series of responses from the Government. I cannot, in fact, fail to stress once again in my explanation of vote the inconsistency of this whole affair, especially the political inconsistency by a Government that, on the one hand, before and until the last defended the CEO and, at the same time, also defended Minister Lotti. Too bad one accused the other of very serious matters. The basic political element that should affect all of us and on which the Government, more rightly, should have expressed itself and given some answers concerns the element that has affected public opinion in relation to this whole affair. And it is useless to continue to turn around: it is a very heavy and dangerous mix between business and politics and on how the summits of the Council were chosen: according to what demands and according to what influences. Today I spoke about the politics of a certain Province that at some point took power in our country and that began to place its men everywhere (the emphasis of all appointments was quite unequivocal). Beyond the lines, what worries us is that this has produced a chain mechanism, which focused a lot of attention on the Council, given the volume of business, and the issues have been there. It is true that the matter will have to be ascertained, of course, by the judiciary, but in the meantime we have some very clear elements, such as the fact that Gasparri nevertheless admitted to having taken 100,000 euros always to favor Romeo. We have the certainty - until it is denied - that the President of the Council is also under investigation, although he has now resigned. We have the incongruity of a CEO who receives pressure and does not mention it to the judiciary, thus less to those who are the fundamental tasks of a public affairs administrator: transparency and good repute. At the same time, there is a Minister, Luca Lotti, who is accused of having put on the alert the same CEO on the ongoing investigation. A picture, from our point of view, desolate. Returning to the commitments provided for in our motion, the Council affair not only highlights very clearly - and I will return to this - the link between the two issues (each one can read it as he wishes), but says first of all that the Council is born of a process of rationalization of public expenditure, of resources, to lead all the various purchasing power stations to a single central on the administrations. Well, today we discover - and here there is a very serious problem - a system of concentration also in the way of managing contracts very worrying. There is no response to this either to the administrative investigation or to the future, and it is hoped that future appointments will be made in accordance with the procedures laid down. As far as we are concerned, we shall vote in favour of Mr Augello's first-signed motion. Of course, we will vote in favour of our motion and vote in favour of the MDP motion. I say to my colleagues in this Group that, as far as we are concerned, we look at the substance; we look at exactly what is written in the motions. I invite everyone once and for all, especially on issues and debates such as these, to put aside tactics because they do not bring good. That is why we do not understand some of the choices of other colleagues, but of course everyone is free. As far as we're concerned, we'll stick alone and exclusively to what it says. We certainly cannot vote on the first-signed motion by Senator Zanda, because that text, beyond the device, which is also normal in view of the situation, seems to pretend that nothing has happened; it does not seem to understand why we have arrived at this point, namely the fact that we must cancel the appointments of the Council and redo them completely. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u65	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to start by voting no on Mr Zanda's first-signed motion and yes to the others, but above all I will focus on why we are opposed to the first mentioned. I could say why we Italians are tired of hearing us say that the marmot wraps the chocolate, that is to hear about something that does not exist on this planet: so, either the aliens are us or it is you. Let's read together. It says: "It commits the Government to proceed in a fast and prompt time for the renewal of the summits of the Council." Since the Statute of the Council says that, two out of three, but even one, has fallen, the Board of Directors has fallen, I have not understood what we would commit the Council or the Government to doing. Are you committed to doing something you already have to do? But I understand why you guys write something like this. You've been saying CEO Marroni's been gone for months. But since Marroni doesn't leave and you don't want to take responsibility for it, you want Parliament to tell the government to do so. In this way the Italian moron - it is evident that the Italian, according to you, is a moron - does not notice. Too bad Italian isn't a moron and he's noticed about it. And by the way, we're telling the dear Italian to wake up. But let's move on. According to you - it is written in the device - the Consip is a fantastic thing and carries out activities of assistance and support to the purchases of the public administration. He does this. Over the years he has done good things and had great skills. That's what it says. So what's that got to do with it? That's the question. We're talking about something else. We are talking not about the replacement of the summits, but about this, because something else has happened. Do we want to make a list of what happened, just to say the two things that happened? For example, it happened that the President of the Council made a statement, which he then recanted - a statement that was then retracted - in which he brought into play nothing less than the commander-general of the Carabinieri's weapon. But you do not mention this in the motion. It's nothing, isn't it? But it's not enough. The commander of the arms of Tuscany - not of Micronesia, but of Tuscany - was brought into play, which would have made a revelation of office secret. He went to tell Lotti to be careful of Romeo, because there were intercepts and an ongoing investigation. This doesn't exist for you, it's gone. For you it is simply a matter of renewal of the Management Board. What are we talking about, nothing? Who are we telling this lie to? So, let's recapitulate: there are the general commander of the Carabinieri's weapon, who is investigated for revelation of office secret; the territorial commander of the Tuscany Region; an entrepreneur who wanted to enter the cake of 2.7 billion; the father of the former President of the Council; the right arm of the former President of the Council (Lotti). In your opinion, however, that is not the problem. In fact, we had to wait until the 27th of the month to be able to say that everything is resolved, that the board of directors has been reset and everything is fine. Is this a joke? If it's a joke, it's not funny. Nobody's laughing here. The truth is that what you carry out is a pure cover-up operation: the head is under the sand and all the rest of the body is out. But do you really hope that the investigation can be closed once you have removed the hat from this situation? It certainly doesn't work out that way. The investigation will continue. Do you think the CEO will shut up? Why would he shut up? It's just that you're being investigated, and it's gonna open up even more. But, above all, is it worth all this effort to protect the former President of the Council? Eventually in front of him you raised the walls and dumped everything you can download. Renzi doesn't touch. You don't touch him. You don't touch your father. You don't touch Lotti, who is the Minister of Sport. We also invented the Minister of Sports. "But of what? Are we in Fascism?" We made that up, too. But Renzi must not be touched. Renzi, who brought this nation to the bottom, must not be touched. Then we say, after the pathetic attempt this morning to try not to have the motions discussed, that fake motions like yours must not even be taken into consideration. On the other hand, the others have reason to be taken into consideration, including the rewording that has been requested from Senator Augello and that we believe is correct. What's right is right. But, because what's right is right, the League is also right, when it says that you have to take responsibility for how much you go to combine. If you improperly remove the board of directors, you take responsibility for it. It can't be someone else's fault. Any responsibility, including political responsibility, must be assumed. We have really gotten tired of your method. But it is not enough, because we have to add something else. The economic adviser to the former President of the Council was also involved: an incredible fire in a row, and for what? To let them know there were wiretaps? When there is such a situation, it means that under the pot the fire is on and a nice roast cook. If you want to cover it up, this story will come out anyway and we will be ready to remind every minute to Italian citizens what you are now combining. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u68	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when the motion of no confidence was discussed with Minister Lotti, the Forza Italia Group supported, in line with the line of not supporting on principle the motions of individual distrust, that that parliamentary act would not be voted on. On that occasion, speaking in question, he made considerations of a political nature, saying that a certain group of people, who from Florence had come from heaven to earth to miraculous show, had actually shown themselves very Italian and very close to the italic traditions, those a bit customary and not very noble: the father, the father, the other, the relatives, friends, Browns and the associates appointed to the right and missing. I do not want to reopen that debate which is then renewed in the newspapers: the phone call of the father to the Minister and the President of the Council (one of the two babes, the one famous in banking matters) and then the father of Rignano. In short, it seems to me that this matter, politically, has already shown the power group that arrogance does not pay. And we saw it in the referendum; we saw it in the process of reforms and we saw it even in Rignano, where, when the mayor of the PD was kicked out to put another, the one who was kicked out won. In the analysis of the vote a few days ago the result of Rignano - in my opinion - like that of Lampedusa - but that is another story - is one of the most significant of the part-session that will end on Sunday. What does this have to do with the Council? It has something to do with it, because the motion that my colleagues Mr Augello and Mr Quagliariello promoted a hundred days ago - like those of Napoleon, as we have been reminded - and that has been signed by more than 60 colleagues - many of the Group of Forza Italia - was of realpolitik: the distrust does not pass? Then at two o'clock and - as Senators Quagliariello and Augello have said several times - they cannot remain in office both the Minister and the administrator, so they went to hit the administrator. The political result has already been achieved and Senator Augello has done well to accept the reformulations proposed by the Government. Therefore, the Forza Italia Group will vote on that motion which it has supported, shared and which has achieved the result. Senator Quagliarello, this morning, also gave a lecture on the statute of the Council, which he studied, but I go on the political substance: that management of the Council has collapsed. And I'm not even talking about this scandal that bothers me at times, because I often read 100,000 euros to Gasparri, who is neither my relative nor my acquaintance. There's a Council official named Gasparri. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Imagine, if I had called myself Rossi, how many homonyms I would have had and I address all my colleagues Rossi. Every once in a while I call newspapers and television stations to ask that it be specified that I had nothing to do with that Council official. It is also a pleasure to be able to report this. So the consequence has already been achieved. Throughout the story of interceptions, true or presumed, I would like to be in the rooms where Marroni in these days - I invent an interception - will certainly say: How? The Minister stays and I have to leave? Do I get kicked out? But how: you brought me from Tuscany too and I must resign? It's still not clear what Marroni wants to do. So, good to approve the motion, well the opinion of the government and well the reformulation. So he agrees that the totalitarian assembly of June 27 - I ask Senator Quagliariello who studied all the details - will be held to replace Marroni. Then the Minister and the others will take care of the voters. We believe in saving democracy. So the political result has been achieved. In conclusion, I have tried - and I am addressing some of the eminent Members of this House - to blow up the debate on the motion and to embarrass the presidency of the Senate a little: since two out of three administrators had resigned, the matter had fallen. I am also referring to Padoan's useless letter, which - as has been said by many - after rejecting Marroni's resignation twice, now wants to kick him out. Oh, my God! And if there were no motions, the first of which I had the privilege of sharing, would we have arrived today at the various motions of the PD, corrected, re-presented, modified, shakered and somehow stirred? They wouldn't be there. Therefore, the political result is to highlight a opaque, intransparent and efficient management. Those who were to scrap have brought their friends to power. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] The judiciary will decide. I wish everyone absolved, even to my homonym, that I do not know and that he is not my relative. We wish them success before the judges. However, the management was still opaque and the demolition was only a batching with friends with whom someone will now fight. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We shall vote with satisfaction in favour of the motion which has highlighted your limitations. You don't have much to be happy about. Trying to prevent the debate was a tactical mistake. The vote on motions may not take place, but the attempt to prevent the Senate from ruling would have made a noise. And whoever imagined it made a further mistake in the mistake. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u71	MIRABELLI (PD). Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Russo and of the first-signed motion by Senator Augello, as reworded (i.e. without the second point). We have already said - as President Zanda said - that we believe that this debate was born in a very different context from that which has now been determined by the resignation of the Council's board of directors. That of questioning the Council summits was and is the meaning of many of the motions presented today. For this reason, we will not vote on them, because we think they no longer have reason to be, being overcome by the facts. As has already been said, we will vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Senators Zanda, Mancuso and Zeller, and of the first-signed motion by Senator Augello. These are two motions that take account of the new framework that has been established and look at the tasks that politics, Parliament and the Government face on the Council affair. It is our desire to commit the Government to rapidly renew the Board of Directors of Council after the resignation of its members. We also call for a strengthening of management that will lead to a strengthening of the activity and function of Consip to centralize purchases, control and save. We also stress the supervisory role to be played by the Government. In the course of the debate we have largely justified our proposal and our position and I believe that it is the facts that show that there has been no desire to cover up Parliament or expropriation of its functions. In the last three months we have discussed the Council case twice, and all the parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to express their views, first on the motion of distrust of Mr Lotti and, then, on the motions that have been scheduled today. Allow me, however, to address Comrade Gotor. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] I would like to remind him and myself that our task today, in this House, is not to replace the judiciary, nor to set up summary trials, as I have heard from several speakers. It is, of course, legitimate, and indeed it is necessary to express different opinions, but I find it less understandable to raise questions on which the Senate has already expressed itself, rejecting the motion of distrust of the Minister for Sport, and to illustrate motions that were declared inadmissible this morning by the President of the Senate. In any case, I believe that mutual respect must never be lacking, which is lacking if, in order to exploit politically and instrumentally a serious and calm debate - as has been the case in many ways today - we are rushing to invoke summary trials, to pronounce invective or to promulgate sentences. It is not serious for Parliament to use this House and the debate on the Council (its functioning and not its investigation) to raise suspicions, make innuendos, build faults and make free accusations. I do not see the will in some people to understand what really happened, in an integrated affair, in which - I remember - there are two investigations. All I see is the will to continue repeating pre-constituted theses. We are interested in making clear what has happened. Others are only interested in having something to exploit, to throw discredit on the political opponent. Interventions like what I heard this morning and how those of the League are not good for politics, for Parliament and for the citizens, who are told that politics is a swamp, in which everything is explained and everything happens by the will of dark powers, business committees and occult forces. And, above all, the arguments used discredit - and I am sorry - those who use them, because they prefer to seek an easy consensus, following the unfortunately widespread idea among citizens that all politics is marching, and marry a preconstituted thesis, rather than doing the effort to seek the solution of problems, transparency and truth, to understand what really happened. This is of interest to the citizens. This concerns PD and we will continue to work on it. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Maggio and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u72	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I also warn that the North League Group withdraws the signatures of its members from motion 743 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator De Petris. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 738 (text 3). I would remind you that the Government has expressed a contrary opinion on the premises, an opinion in favour of the first and third points, with rewording, and an opinion contrary to the second point of the provisions, and that Senator Augello has agreed to make the second commitment and to reformulate the third. Senator Augello intends to ask for a separate vote on the motion? AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, the Government has actually asked for this, and so I imagine that we must adhere to this request, otherwise there would be some problem in voting on the motion. I therefore call for the vote on the motion to be taken separately, first voting on the premises and then voting on the provisional part.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u73	Not making any comments, so it remains established. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the premises of motion No 738 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 738 (text 3), tabled by Senator Augello and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion No 738 (text 3), tabled by Senator Augello and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 743 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 743 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 798. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Zanda and other senators to make a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 798. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 800 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 800 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gotor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 802. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 802, tabled by the Centenary and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u76	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, on a point of order, I would ask you to settle an issue which was raised by Senator Calderoli, but also by our Group, last week. We are in a certain situation today. The Rules of Procedure provide that the President of the Senate shall put to the vote, within five days of the request, the conditions of constitutionality in the Chamber. The five days have passed and today we are on the sixth day. As a matter of fact, there is still a decree that was to be voted on. The Rules of Procedure are clear: within five days the President of the Senate shall put to the vote the request for a vote in the Chamber. We would like to understand how it is possible for the presidency of the Senate to go unpunishedly in violation of a rule of regulation - as is the case here - and Parliament does not have an instrument to prevent it and there is nothing that can be done, or someone to appeal to, like a judge in Berlin who can say that the presidency of the Senate is not fulfilling the rules. This has happened regularly during the constitutional reform, during the electoral law, and once again it occurs by trampling on the Rules of Procedure. Surely you will pull out a precedent from 1948-1949 in which a case happened, or you will use the usual "Great Version" Regulation, which is not in the possession of any senator. Last week President Grasso said, at a specific request, that if we did not finish the work, the House would be convened accordingly. It means that the House should have been convened on Monday, on the fifth day, as he said - and we are not making this up - showing that there was indeed a problem, namely the need to convene the House in the five days. This is something that is done every time, even when we vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with the precise calculation, avoiding voting on the conditions on a day such as not to allow the convocation in the next five days. So now, before we continue with the examination of other subjects, Madam President, please explain to us what part of the Rules of Procedure will be used this time for the usual escapism. And tell us who we can appeal to to be able to ask for a review of the decision that the Presidency already knows it will take, trampling on the rights of this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u79	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, if you proceed with the examination of the constitutional and urgent conditions referred to by Senator Crimi, we are in complete agreement. If so, let's move on, because I think the demands of Senator Crimes are absolutely legitimate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u80	Senator Mancuso, I gave priority to Senator Crimi's intervention because he asked to speak on a point of order. With regard to the objection, as you know, Senator Crimes, within five days the matter has been brought to the attention of the House and parliamentary law has rules on justice that are codified by our Constitution, so some rules are enforceable and others are part of national parliamentary law. Since you, Senator Crimes, rightly want a Senate resolution, we're moving on to this. CRIMI (M5S). But the deadline has expired! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It hasn't expired. CRIMI (M5S). It expired yesterday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Within five days there was a summons and was brought to the attention of the Assembly. A decree-law may not lapse without a ruling of the Assembly. CRIMI (M5S). President, please read publicly what's in it. MARTELLI (M5S). I ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The point of order has already been made and we therefore move on to the resolution on the opinion. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] I have already replied to the point of order. The Group itself cannot speak twice on the Rules of Procedure. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Your Group has already acted on the same rule. [[Comments of Senator Martelli]] Tell me, Senator Martelli, what other rule of the Rules of Procedure you intend to take, different from that invoked by Senator Crimi who intervened for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u81	I request clarification pursuant to Article 78 (3). You said it was incorrect, because it says that the President of the Senate or submit the opinion within five days to the vote of the Assembly. The five days expired yesterday. There is nothing more to vote on today. You tell me where it is written that you can vote. As an alternative, we call for a meeting of the Council for the Rules of Procedure and establish it. There is no way that we can ignore it if something else is written in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u82	The President of the Senate submitted the opinion within five days last week and since there was, however, an obligation to decide on the Commission's request, the resolution was postponed in the absence of the quorum and the Assembly was reconvened. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u83	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the resolution on the opinion delivered by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the assumption of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law No 2856: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 73 of 7 June 2017 laying down urgent provisions on vaccination prevention" I would remind you that the debate began at the sitting on 15 June. As we are not members, I put to the vote the favourable opinion of the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u86	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, you have just put him to the vote. He said it in his own words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I didn't. ENDRIZZI (M5S). He's doing it now. Now you said you put him to the vote, not last week, and not Monday within five days. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u87	The matter has already been resolved by the Presidency. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency has given its opinion on this. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] You say that this is not the case and I confirm to you that all the precedents are in the sense that within five days the House is convened and the House is sovereign in deciding whether to deal with... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I put to the vote the favourable opinion expressed by the first permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the existence of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 73. SANTANGELO (M5S). What are you doing? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall cancel the vote and quote all the precedents which go in the following direction: examination of the premises, lack of quorum and the examination is postponed until 11 January 1995. Closing assumptions. The mechanism is that it is submitted to the Assembly; there is no quorum and the debate is postponed until the next sitting. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u90	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Perhaps one of those previous sittings will have been presided over by you. I ask colleagues from the 5 Star Movement Group to have Senator Calderoli speak to illustrate his position. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would say that mistakes are repeated in succession, because I was not presiding, but President Grasso. PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, I meant in the past, in the history of the Senate, on other occasions, you must have followed the practice. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I note, on the one hand, a difficulty, because unfortunately the practice that you mentioned - those three precedents - really exists. I do not understand how the Presidency can always look for a precedent that is convenient at that time, forgetting the Rules of Procedure. This is the Rules - I am sorry to say - of the Marquis del Grillo: I know you and I are not shit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u91	Senator Calderoli, I do not allow you to express yourself in this way. You know better than I that the Rules of Procedure are made up of rules and practices, which are of legal value. I'm not the one who has to teach her, who knows a lot more than I do.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u92	Let me give you the last lesson free of charge: as this is a special procedure, it provides for electronic nominal voting without being required by anyone. So, when you got a vote by show of hands, you made a mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u93	This is a favourable opinion and electronic scrutiny is only provided for in other cases.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u95	You have the floor, even if you have already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u96	Then I believe that this issue has already been resolved by the Presidency. MARTELLI (M5S). I am again speaking with the Rules of Procedure in my hand, because it seems that three precedents are worth more than the Rules of Procedure. Firstly, I must point out that it is not the case that there is no quorum. And, therefore, that precedent is invoked out of proportion. I would point out, however, that there has been an act of bullying. Listen to me, please. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I listen, I am multitasking: I can listen and read at the same time. I don't miss a word you're saying. MARTELLI (M5S). It's not funny, though. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it's not funny at all. MARTELLI (M5S). Article 55 (6) provides that the timetable may be amended by the Presidency, as would have been necessary last week. So, an even greater abuse was committed here, because President Grasso, to the question put to him by Senator Calderoli, responded by saying that if he could not vote that day, he would have made sure that he could do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But it wasn't done. Don't give a shit. Do you not have a word to say at this time to take our insults? The Rules of Procedure would have allowed President Grasso to convene an additional sitting, but uncomfortableing these people on Monday seemed too much. I'm asking you if you have anything to say about this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u97	The President of the Senate has summoned the Senate in such a way as to decide and, therefore, today the Senate is called to deliberate. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u100	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I will be here until the last day always asking that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, until we change it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And I'll always be here to listen to you, because I can't automatically point you in. SANTANGELO (M5S). We kindly ask that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, stressing that today you too have trampled on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u101	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the favourable opinion expressed by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 73. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u104	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, even after a brief verification with the other groups, I think it might be appropriate to begin the discussion of a measure that is close to the heart of many people, namely the one on changes to the anti-mafia law code, even considering that in the evening we would certainly not be able to conclude the further motions that are scheduled. I would therefore ask the House to proceed with the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u107	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I believe that the timetable has been established by the Conference of Leaders. I also think that this modus operandi must be respected especially by the Democratic Party and the majority, who come to the Chamber after having decided practically on their own schedule, also to have a linearity in the work. The 5 Star Movement, therefore, opposes the request of Senator Russo. The truth is that the gentlemen do not even want to work on Thursday and, therefore, this request has been made to conclude tomorrow, Wednesday, the work of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If it doesn't, Thursday morning I will get up and apologize to the PD, otherwise tomorrow night you will apologize to the Italians and you will have to be mortified. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Airola and Mirabelli]] That is why we are absolutely opposed to this and we are calling for the timetable to be respected. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u110	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I believe that there is a practice in the history of parliamentary assemblies in the vicinity of an electoral competition. As we know, Sunday there are the ballots, which obviously are of little interest to the 5 Star Movement [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] , but we would need... SANTANGELO (M5S). Stop! Go to work! MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). We'd have to...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u111	Senator Mancuso, don't excite your souls. Senator Santangelo, let him finish. Senator Mancuso, I didn't understand what you said at the end, whether you were in favour or against the proposal. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Santangelo, let me hear Senator Mancuso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u112	I wanted to say that, if the House does not sit on Thursday, we must certainly not apologize to the Italians, because we are engaged in the territories for the ballots. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Donno's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u113	I put to the vote the proposal to reverse the agenda put forward by Senator Russo. It's approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u116	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, I asked to speak before the vote simply to point out that the work of the Commission on nuclear weapons is under way in New York from 15 June to 7 July. Therefore, with a postponement we miss the opportunity to speak on something that is taking place. And you and this House are taking responsibility for this, because it is clear that we do not want to intervene on the request to ban nuclear weapons, as is the case with the UN. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u117	I take note of that, but the House has spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u120	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to remind you - and here too there is a guarantee problem - that these motions... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u121	Colleagues, you should give me the opportunity to listen to the senators who are speaking and who are putting questions to the Presidency. I ask you, therefore, to be kind to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u122	[[Comments of Senator Airola]] Please, Senator Airola. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). This is a problem that you should address immediately. Motions on the proliferation of nuclear weapons were included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Assembly not by grace received, but because they had reached the prescribed number of senators to be automatically scheduled. Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you - and you can do so quietly, because it is a question of the number of signatures and therefore of procedure - that these motions be put back on the agenda of the first useful sitting, which will obviously be next Tuesday. I ask you, Madam President, because it is absolutely necessary from a procedural point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You're right, and the matter will be referred to the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u123	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089. [[Brusio.]] I'd beg the senators to clear the hemicycle.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u126	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. It is now 7.10 p.m.; the House will finish its work at 8 p.m. We intend to present a preliminary question and a suspensive one: I would like to know whether we should present them immediately after Senator Lumia's report - I say this out of the knowledge of everyone, because it is clear that we will have to vote on it - or whether, after Senator Lumia's report, we will proceed to the speeches at the end of the sitting and these questions can be put tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u127	I think that the latter is the most reasonable solution: after the reports we will move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting, so that the senators have time to draft the questions for a preliminary ruling and then discuss them. The rapporteurs, Senators Lumia and Pagliari, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Lumia.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the single anti-mafia text finally reaches the approval of this House. It was not easy: the legislative path has been long, complex, even with problems of financial coverage of not easy solution, but we are now there. The text, I remind all my colleagues, has already been approved in the House; now, improved and supplemented by the work of the Senate Justice Commission, it allows us to make that qualitative leap in the fight against the mafias so long awaited, perhaps even too many. Together with the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, we will tackle two parts of this comprehensive reform. The reform consists of 36 articles divided into seven chapters. Basically, the first part deals with the reform and discipline of personal and property prevention measures; the second part deals with the other broad topic of the Agency's reform which intervenes and manages the confiscated property. As regards the first part, Article 1 intervenes on Article 4 of the Anti-Mafia Code by including among the possible recipients of personal and property prevention measures, even outside the case of competition or aiding, the suspects of assisting the associates with regard to criminal and mafia organisations (Article 418 of the Criminal Code). This is also an important innovation, which has been awaited for years, which complements the number of subjects to be attacked on the side of the fight against the Mafia. There was also an important insertion made by the House: to include among the subjects to be hit with the prevention measures, especially patrimonial, the suspects of a series of crimes against the public administration. Compared to the text dismissed by the Chamber of Deputies, the Commission has further extended the subjective scope of application, including those who are suspected of one of the crimes consumed or attempted for purposes of terrorism, already recalled by paragraph 3-c of Article 51 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but better systematized with the reform and interventions of our Commission Justice. Then there were also those involved in the crimes of persecutory acts (Article 612-a, always of the Code of Criminal Procedure), which we all mention among the offences of stalking. This is also a very important and long-awaited innovation, as that type of crime must be addressed especially in the prevention phase, since, among other things, it is structured with a series of repeated conducts that fall within the context of the actuality and the social danger of the subject. We all know that this kind of crime often paves the way for feminicide. Therefore, this proposal, which was accepted and included in the reform in the justice committee itself, was important. For those who consume the offences of scam aggravated for the attainment of public disbursements, referred to in article 640- bis of the penal code, among other things concerning also the experience gained in our territory from the Park of the Nebrodi, in Sicily (where, among other things, a serious attack was taking place, almost a massacre, against the president of that Park, Giuseppe Antoci, and the men of his escort), we inserted, in the body and in the neighborhood of this reform, other measures, that go to hit a type of crime today in the hands of the mafia, that is no longer the traditional and archaic mafia of the pastures but the most modern, aggressive and dangerous mafia of the land. So much so that in this reform, precisely in the Justice Commission, we have raised the penalty for precisely this kind of crime: before that it was one to six years old, and now it will be a two to seven-year sentence. We have also included a rule, which will then be submitted to the House's evaluation, in order to strike, through the anti-mafia certification, precisely that access to the management and rent of the land that, ladies and gentlemen, even exceeds for profitability the traffic so opulent of cocaine. That is why we wanted, from this point of view, to predict that the famous protocol of the Nebrodi Park, known just as the Antoci protocol, would also become a norm, so that the State can authorize this experimentation, make it its own and make it an ordered system of intervention to strike at the riches that are accumulating, not only in Sicily, but throughout the national territory. We also anticipate the possibility that park bodies, both regional and national, will become, together with other local institutional bodies, recipients of management for social and productive purposes of assets seized and confiscated from the mafia. The Commission has also amended Article 4 (1) (f) of the Anti-Mafia Code, providing that personal prevention measures also apply to those who carry out enforcement acts (in force legislation only preparatory acts) directed to the reconstitution of the fascist party. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 amends the procedure for the application of personal preventive measures. The provision intervenes, first, on Article 5 of the Anti-Mafia Code, providing that the prosecutor of the Republic of the surrounding area, in the specific hypotheses in which the ownership of the proposal for personal prevention measures is also up to these, adopt the proposal after coordination with the prosecutor of the Republic of the chief town of the district; and that the proposal for a measure should be deposited, no longer at the court of the chief town of the Province in which the proposed person resides, but at the Registry of the sections or special colleges for the prevention measures of the court of the chief town of the district in the territory of which the person lives. Sections and colleges established by the following Article 31 of the draft law. This is also a measure that qualifies the anti-mafia code because it creates specialized sections, able therefore to have a well-prepared judge capable of attacking the heart of the Mafia power, that is its riches. In this regard, with regard to the courts of Trapani (where, I recall, still insists one of the most dangerous fugitives, Matteo Messina Money) and Santa Maria Capua Vetere (where the very dangerous Mafia of the Casalesi was born and developed), the Commission has foreseen that this proposal should be filed at the Registry of the sections or colleges specializing in prevention measures established there, in case the person stays in the corresponding district. The article in question also amends Article 6 of the Anti-Mafia Code, providing that the prohibition of residence can also be applied in relation to one or more regions, and no longer to different provinces as in the old code, taking into account a breakdown that has been outdated for decades now. In addition, several amendments are made to Article 7 of the Anti-Mafia Code governing the application of personal measures. Synthetically, it is expected: that the thirty days within which the court is required to rule shall run from the filing of the proposal; that the notice of fixing the hearing must give a concise explanation of the contents of the proposal; that ordinary use at the hearing of the remote audio-visual link, if the person concerned is held outside the district of the judge; that, in particular cases, the possibility of hearing with the remote connection also persons informed of the facts. Also in the Commission justice here to the Senate has been added paragraph 4 -bis to article 7 of the anti-mafia code, with which it is expected that the court, after the ascertainment of the regular constitution of the parties, admits the relevant evidence, excluding those prohibited by law (or superfluous, of course). A period has then been added to paragraph 5 in which a further cause for postponement of the hearing for the application of preventive measures is envisaged, where, however, there is a legitimate impediment of the lawyer. The draft law, in the text approved by the Chamber, adds, again to article 7 of the anti-mafia code, new paragraphs that lead to an articulated regulation of issues relating to territorial competence, aimed at resolving some issues long debated at the jurisprudential level. On the basis of the new rules, such questions must be referred to the Court for revocation at the first hearing, and in any case immediately after the determination of the proper constitution of the parties, and the tribunal shall decide them immediately. They can be detected from office naturally, by decision, at first instance. If he considers his incompetence, the court declares it by decree ordering the return of the documents to the prosecutor of the Republic to the competent court (even if the proposing body is different). The declaration of incompetence does not produce the ineffectiveness of the elements already acquired. The same rules apply even if the proposal has not been made by the prosecutor of the Republic or by the quaestor entitled under Article 5 of the Anti-Mafia Code. Where the court accepts the objection of incompetence, the seizure, if any, shall cease to be effective if, within 20 days of the filing of the order, the competent court (if invested by the competent public prosecutor who has received the documents) does not order the seizure. The provision also states that the decree of acceptance, even partial, of the proposal places at the expense of the proposed payment of the procedural costs, today due only for the judgment of Cassation. With regard to Article 7 of the Anti-Mafia Code, the provision lays down detailed rules on the terms of filing of the court's decree. The decree must be lodged within 15 days of the conclusion of the hearing. Where the wording of the grounds is particularly complex, the court may, after the parties' conclusions, indicate a longer period, but not more than 90 days. The period may be further extended by one hundred and eighty days in accordance with Article 154 of the implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Finally, Article 2 amends Article 8 of the Anti-Mafia Code, providing that the decree of the court may contain, among the requirements, the prohibition of residence in one or more regions and that the decision of the court must also be communicated to the defender of the proposal. Article 3, which deals with the discipline of the appeals of the personal prevention measures, intervenes on Article 10 of the Anti-Mafia Code, allowing the proposition of the appeal in appeal and in Cassation also to the defender of the person concerned (currently the only legitimate). Article 4 makes amendments to Article 14 of the Anti-Mafia Code on the date of and end of the special surveillance of public security. First, the execution of the special surveillance is expected to remain suspended during the time the person concerned is subject to the measure of protective custody. The duration of the prevention measure shall continue to run from the day on which the precautionary measure has ceased, with the report of submission to the obligations. In addition to providing that the execution of the special surveillance remains suspended during the time the person concerned is detained for atonement of punishment, the new rules stipulate that the verification of the danger takes place by the court (even of its own motion) after the termination of the detention which lasted for at least two years, through a detailed procedure. In this respect, an amendment was adopted in the Justice Commission which states that the abovementioned verification of the persistence of social danger is to be heard by the public prosecutor who carried out the relevant functions during the chamber treatment, taking the necessary information, as well as by the prison administration and the public security authority, also from the judicial police bodies. If the social danger has ceased, the court shall issue a decree by which it revokes the measure of application of the preventive measure; if, on the other hand, the social danger persists, the court shall issue a decree ordering the execution of the preventive measure, the period of which shall continue to run from the day on which the decree is communicated to the person concerned. It should be noted that the above-mentioned amendments aim to regulate the effects of the judgment of Consulta n. 291 of 2013, in which the constitutional illegitimacy of Articles 12 of Law No. 1423 of 1956 and 15 of the Anti-Mafia Code has been declared, in which they do not provide that, in the event that the execution of a personal preventive measure remains suspended due to the state of detention for atonement of the person subjected to it, the body which adopted the implementing measure must assess, even of its own motion, the persistence of the social danger of the person concerned at the time of the execution of the measure. Chapter II of the measure (composed of several articles, from 5 to 12) amends the rules on asset prevention measures. Article 5 deals with the rules on the procedure for the application of asset prevention measures, explaining, with regard to the ownership of the proposal, the coordination powers of the District and District Prosecutor in relation to the investigations and proposals for measures put forward by the quaestor and the director of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate (DIA). In the Commission justice has been replaced paragraph 2 of article 17 of the anti-mafia code, specifying that, in the cases provided for in article 4, paragraph 1, letter c), letter i-bis) and letter i-ter), the functions and competences due to the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of the chief town of the district are also attributed to the prosecutor of the Republic at the court in which the person dwells, after coordination with the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of the chief town of the district. In the same cases, in the hearings relating to proceedings for the application of preventive measures, the functions of prosecutor may also be exercised by the prosecutor of the Republic in the competent court. The provision then intervenes in the matter of seizure (Article 20 of the Anti-Mafia Code) establishing that, in addition to the seizure of unjustified values deemed likely to result from illegal activity, the decree of the court can also dispose of the judicial administration of companies, as well as of assets instrumental to the exercise of the relative economic activities. In this way the seizure of totalitarian social participations is extended ex lege to all the business assets: an important innovation, among the many that for years we are asked by the operators who act against the mafia in this delicate field and that also requires a technicality that is able to widen the scope of seizure and confiscation. As regards the execution of the seizure (Article 21 of the Anti-Mafia Code), the provision of the bill under consideration provides that the material apprehension of the seized property and the placing of the judicial administrator in their possession is provided by the judicial police (as opposed to the judicial officer). You will of course also understand the scope of this innovation. Of course, the assistance of the latter remains only possible ('where appropriate'). In the Commission justice has been revised the text of article 21 of the anti-mafia code - regarding the formulation brought by the bill approved by the Chamber - replacing paragraph 2 in the sense of previewing that the judge delegated to the procedure, pursuant to article 35, paragraph 1 (instead of the court), heard the judicial administrator, assessed the circumstances, orders the clearance of the occupied property without title, or on the basis of title without certain date prior to the seizure through the help of the public force. The paragraphs 2- bis to 2- quinques of Article 7 introduced by the Chamber were then deleted, which regulated the procedure for the clearance of property by the court. Article 5 of the bill then intervenes in the matter of emergency seizure, establishing that the decree that provides the prevention measure loses effectiveness if it is not validated by the court within thirty days. Article 5 of the draft law states that the proposal cannot justify the legitimate origin of the goods on the ground that the money used to buy them is the result of tax evasion: a classic device to throw in corner football the illicit acquisition of large assets. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Lumia. If you wish, you can leave the rest of your speech to the record. Mr Lumia, rapporteur. All right, ma'am. I would like to conclude by saying that the choice we have made on the Agency, which will now be dealt with by the rapporteur, Pagliari, finally involves transparency, efficiency and organizational and professional energies, in order to ensure that even the confiscated goods become a resource and no longer a problem in the fight against the mafias. I would ask the Presidency to allow me to add the remaining part of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I call the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give a brief thought to the illustration of the measure. I consider this position to be the most significant of my parliamentary experience. While aware of the modesty of my role, helping to build legislation against the mafia and combat organised crime in the exercise of parliamentary function is an honour and a great gratification. This is why I cannot fail to remember the victims of the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra, from the darkest to the most famous, from those killed and victims of violence to those victims of organized crime in everyday and seemingly normal life, from those who suffer organized crime in the traditional lands to those who suffer the bullying and the angeries in the lands of current infiltration, beginning with my Region, Emilia Romagna, and my city, Parma. Even less so, I want to forget those who fight crime daily, from the Free Association to public administrators, to the many citizens who without advertising are daily and defenceless fighters against this tumor. Finally, let me make one final point. With the news, the anti-mafia code will also apply to those responsible for crimes against public administration, corruption in the lead. How can we fail to grasp in this precept a firm denunciation and a call to fight also the mafia in fact, the one determined by the contexts dominated by evil, by clientelism and lawlessness, the one that creates the State in the state in the most diverse and unexpected contexts, subjecting the institutions to the interests of the few and precluding the public functions to protect everyone and the usability of the institutions to those who do not bend. The Mafia is also fighting against these phenomena. Chapter III of the measure amends the rules on the administration, management and destination of assets seized and confiscated. Article 13 of the draft law deals with the rules of the anti-mafia code which define the criteria for the choice of judicial administrators of the assets seized and regulates the obligations related to the termination of their duties. The provision provides, first of all, that where the management of the seized property is particularly complex, the court may appoint several judicial administrators, possibly determining whether they must operate jointly or separately. A subsequent ministerial decree is required to define the criteria for the appointment of judicial directors, as well as the identification of the tasks for which the particular complexity of the administration or the exceptional value of the assets to be administered determine the prohibition of cumulation of tasks. The rule, in addition to providing that the judicial administrator of seized companies is chosen from among the members of the section of experts in business management of the National Register of judicial administrators, brings specific causes to prevent the taking of such office. An additional paragraph to the reformulated Article 35 of the Anti-Mafia Code has been introduced in the Justice Commission, according to which, without prejudice to the provisions for the seizure of companies of extraordinary socio-economic interest, the judicial administrator may also be appointed from among the staff of the Agency referred to in Article 113-a. In such a case, the judicial administrator employed by the Agency for the performance of his duties shall not be entitled to any additional compensation compared to the economic treatment in enjoyment, with the exception of a reimbursement of expenses. Furthermore, the provision gives the judicial administrator the power to organise, on the authorisation of the delegated judge, his own liaison office. Article 13 of the draft law then introduces into the anti-mafia code a new article 35-a, relating to responsibility in the management and control of the public administration. Article 13 also amends Article 36 of the Anti-Mafia Code on the judicial administrator's report. Article 14 amends the rules governing the management of seized and confiscated assets, with particular reference to the management of holdings. More in detail, the bill intervenes on Article 40 of the Anti-Mafia Code with modifications aimed at allowing the use of real estate seized from the stage of execution, with the help of the national agency. To this end, an articulated discipline is introduced aimed at guiding the activity of the court and the judge delegated, through the transposition of some virtuous practices. In a nutshell, in the case of rented or convenient properties with a certain date prior to the seizure, the judicial administrator, subject to the permission of the delegated judge, shall put in place the necessary acts to obtain the termination of contracts on natural expiry. Instead, in the case of free or liberated property, the judicial administrator, with the written permission of the delegated judge, may, even on a proposal from the agency, grant in comodato the goods to the subjects to whom the property can be destined or assigned after the definitive confiscation, with cessation on the date of the definitive confiscation, or lease or grant in comodato the goods, providing for the cessation in the cases that are last exposed and, in any case, not later than the date of the final confiscation. For movable property, the article provides stricter rules to avoid unnecessary storage, requiring the sale if the goods cannot be administered without danger of deterioration or significant diseconomies and destruction or demolition if they are worthless, unproductive, objectively unusable and non-alienable. The provision provides for more detailed rules on the complaint of the judicial administrator's actions in the absence of written authorisation from the delegated judge. Article 14 then rewrites Article 41 of the Anti-Mafia Code, analytically governing the contents of the report that the judicial administrator must submit within three months of the appointment; in particular he will have to describe the concrete possibilities of continuation of the activity, attaching a program containing the analytical description of the modalities and the times of fulfillment of the proposal, which must be accompanied, after permission of the delegated judge, by the report of a professional, attesting the truthfulness of the business data and the feasibility of the same plan. In the proposal to continue the administrator will also have to censor the creditors of the company and the employees. The judicial administrator shall be allowed, subject to written permission from the delegated judge, to rent the holding or a branch of the holding, or to grant it in a convenient manner. Finally, in the absence of any specific possibility of continuing the activity, the provision provides for simplified procedures for winding up or termination of the undertaking. Article 15 of the draft law inserts Article 41-a into the anti-mafia code, which introduces the financial instruments to support and exploit the seized companies necessary for the legalization of activities not irreversibly polluted by capital or "unlawful" methods. In the Committee on Justice, Article 41- bis of the Anti-Mafia Code - as introduced by the text approved in the Chamber of Deputies - has been subjected to profound formal review, leaving the regulatory substance unchanged. Article 16 inserts in the anti-mafia code the new Article 41-b with which they are established at the prefectures of the permanent tables on the seized and confiscated companies, to which they are called to participate, in addition to a representative of the National Agency for the administration and the destination of the seized and confiscated goods, also representatives of the institutions (region and Ministry of Economic Development) and of the employers' and workers' associations. The function of the permanent tables is to promote the collaboration of the economic operators of the territory with the companies, in order to favor the productive continuity and the consequent safeguard of the occupation. The tables shall express a non-binding opinion on the proposals of the judicial administrator or the Agency. Article 16 then introduces in the anti-mafia code the additional Article 41-c, which provides that the judicial administrator, after hearing the competent permanent table, and after obtaining the permission of the delegated judge, may avail himself of the technical support, free of charge, of entrepreneurs active in the field in which the company operates or in similar sectors. Article 17 of the measure amends Articles 43 and 44 of the Anti-Mafia Code, relating to the management report - to be presented by the administrator once confiscation has become irrevocable - and to the management of the assets confiscated by the Agency. Article 18 deals with the use of confiscated property, modifying certain provisions of the Anti-Mafia Code. In particular, it inserts in the Code Article 45-a, which regulates the release and removal of the property and the holdings; it amends Article 46 of the Code confirming the possible return for equivalent, in the case of the return of confiscated property; it intervenes on Article 47 of the Code, relating to the process of destination, providing that, if procedures are activated to safeguard third parties or creditors, the Agency must take the decision of destination within 90 days of the notification of the plan to pay the claims. In relation to the destination of the goods and the sums, governed by Article 48 of the Anti-Mafia Code, Article 18 of the bill provides that the sale of the majority or totalitarian corporate holdings is permitted only if the company is deprived of assets constituted in the company or of real estate and that the sale of the corporate holdings can be carried out only in such a way as to guarantee the protection of the existing occupational levels and the destination of the property to the territorial authorities for economic purposes, with the restriction of the reuse of the proceeds for social purposes. The provision, in addition to introducing more precise measures aimed at ensuring the advertising by the territorial authorities of the goods intended for them, as well as of the assignments, provides for the allocation, free of charge, by the Agency directly to the bodies or associations on the basis of a special convention in compliance with the principles of transparency, adequate publicity and equal treatment, where it is evident their social destination according to criteria to be established by the Governing Council of the Agency. Paragraph 15-b of Article 48 of the Anti-Mafia Code has been introduced in the Justice Commission, which specifies that the forecasts on the destination of the real estate referred to in paragraph 3 also apply the confiscated properties already forming part of the company's assets of companies whose social holdings have been confiscated in totalitarian way or in any case such as to ensure the control of the company. The Agency, by resolution of the Governing Council, may, however, declare the business nature of the said buildings, ordering the Conservative of the real estate registers to cancel all injurious transcripts in order to ensure the header of the property in the same company. Article 19 amends Article 51 of the Anti-Mafia Code on the tax regime of seized property to specify that, if the seizure extends beyond the tax period in which it begins, the income derived from the property is determined by the judicial administrator on a provisional basis, for tax purposes only. Chapter IV of the draft law amends the rules of the anti-mafia code on the protection of third parties and the relationship with competition procedures. In particular, Article 20 amends the following Articles of the Code: Article 52, in order to vary the conditions under which the credit rights of third parties are not affected; Article 53, in order to specify that the sums for the satisfaction of claims prior to the seizure, to which the State is liable up to 60% of the estimated value of the seized property, must be deducted from the costs of the proceedings and administration of the assets; Article 55, which provides for the suspension of the enforcement procedures already pending at the time of the seizure and the extinction of the same in the event of final confiscation; Article 56, relating to the relationships pending at the time of the seizure, which provides that if the contract relating to the seized company or to the seized property is still to be carried out, the execution shall be suspended until the judicial administrator declares to take over. Article 20 of the bill also inserts in the anti-mafia code Article 54-a (payment of debts prior to seizure), for which the delegated judge may authorise the judicial administrator to pay or renegotiate previous debts relating to commercial relations necessary for the continuation of the activity. Article 21 lays down provisions on the establishment of third party rights. The draft law first amends Article 57 on the list and verification of claims, to specify that the list of creditors must also include those who have real rights to enjoy or guarantee and to reduce from ninety to sixty days the peremptory period which the judge assigns to creditors for the filing of claims. The provision then amends Article 58, on applications for admission of credit, regulating more strictly the submission of late claims, providing for the involvement of the judicial administrator in the proceedings. In addition to limited changes to the verification of claims and the composition of the liabilities referred to in Article 59 of the Anti-Mafia Code, the draft law intervenes on the phase of the sale and liquidation of assets (Article 60 of the Anti-Mafia Code) as well as on the phase of the project and the subsequent plan of payment of claims that begins after the irrevocability of the confiscation order, becoming the responsibility of the Agency. Article 22 regulates relations with competition procedures by amending Articles 63 and 64 of the Anti-Mafia Code. Action is taken in the matter of declaration of bankruptcy following the seizure by providing for a more precise discipline of the verification of the claims made by the judge delegated to the prevention with regard to the goods subject to seizure or confiscation, excluded from the active mass bankruptcy, and by the judge delegated to the bankruptcy for the remaining ones even after the revocation of the seizure. The provision also stipulates that, where corporate and productive complexes or majority corporate holdings have been seized, before the final confiscation occurs, the judicial administrator may, subject to the authorisation of the court: submit to the bankruptcy court an application for admission to the agreed advance, referred to in Articles 160 et seq. of the bankruptcy law; submit an application for the debt restructuring agreement pursuant to Article 182 bis bankruptcy law; prepare a plan certified pursuant to Article 67, third paragraph, letter d), of the bankruptcy law, aimed at ensuring the safeguarding of the production unit and the maintenance of employment levels. On the other hand, no change is made to the existing rules in so far as it does not allow the court to file a request for bankruptcy. Finally, Article 22 of the draft law deals with Article 64 (sequestration following the declaration of bankruptcy) by assigning to the judge delegated to prevent the verification of claims with regard to assets subject to seizure, even if already verified by the judge delegated to bankruptcy. The Justice Commission then introduced three additional articles to the bill approved by the Chamber: Article 23 amending Article 71 of the Anti-Mafia Code on aggravating circumstances; Article 24 amending Article 76 of the Anti-Mafia Code on other criminal sanctions; Article 25 amending Article 83 of the Anti-Mafia Code on the scope of anti-Mafia documentation. Article 26 amends Article 84 of the Anti-Mafia Code by giving significant value to a situation of danger also infiltrating the involvement in criminal proceedings for the crime of caporalate. Chapter V of the measure intervenes on the provisions of the anti-mafia code relating to the National Agency for the administration and destination of the seized and confiscated goods, providing as the main seat of the Rome Agency, and as secondary offices - with an amendment approved in the Commission justice - as well as Reggio Calabria, also Palermo, Catania, Naples, Bologna and Milan. In the Commission Justice was then brought back the Agency under the supervision of the Minister of the Interior, as currently provided by the Anti-Mafia Code, and the consultative powers of the Advisory Committee of Address referred to in Article 111, paragraph 1, letter d) of the Anti-Mafia Code have increased. The provisions to ensure the functionality of the Agency pursuant to Article 113- bis of the Anti-Mafia Code have been amended and an additional article (Article 113-b) has been introduced, which provides for the assignment of special duties to staff with managerial or equivalent status, up to the maximum limit of ten units, belonging to public administrations, police forces and economic public bodies, commanded or seconded or placed out of role for the performance of institutional functions at the Agency. Chapter VI contains amendments to the penal code, to the provisions implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure and to the special laws, as well as various delegations to the Government for the discipline of the incompatibility regime relating to the offices of judicial administrator and of insolvency curator and for the protection of the work in the seized and confiscated companies. [[Recalls of the President]] Madam President, I would ask that the remaining part of the report be delivered. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u130	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u133	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I had announced that I had to present a question for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u134	He'll do it tomorrow. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u137	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, I am here this evening bringing together the demands and concerns of the employees - and their families - of the Tecnomesopia company, a true flagship of Puglia, and not only, which over the years has achieved very important goals in the field of the production quality of the aviation sector. Since 2012, Tecnomesopia has increased its workforce from 80 to more than 400 employees, working in contracts for subsidiaries of Finmeccanica. The latter, in 2015, for a process of internalization, proceeded to make a real transfer of skills to other establishments, using the staff of Tecnomesopia that in fact proceeded to transfer its specific know-how to operators of other companies. After completion of the support, however, the Tecnomesopia staff was declared redundant. On 30 June the last 175 employees will be dismissed. Dismissals, these, which follow a disposal of personnel that has already exceeded 400 units, but contrary to the size of the company, which instead turns out to be increasing. I therefore ask, through you, Madam President, that Minister De Vincenti, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Development, arrange to anticipate the date, scheduled for mid-July, of convening the table on the employment crisis, which insists in a very worrying way on the economic and social fabric of Brindisi and Puglia and, possibly, to respond also to the act of inspection union 3-03209 of 12 October 2016, in which I referred to the crisis that today affects even more serious and acute peaks. Only through a synergy between the Region and the National Government will it be possible to defuse the risk now concrete of a real occupational shock for the territory toast, where socio-economic indices are already attested on levels of great concern. I should also like to make a further point. It is primarily up to the Government to ensure urgent and courageous interventions to combat the employment crisis in many territories. A principle whose congency must be applied even more stringently when the company in question is owned by the Government itself, i.e. by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency will represent its demands to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u140	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I would like to ask the answer to a number of questions concerning my territory, Lombardy. The first concerns the shameful situation of Seregno, in which several members of the North League have resigned from their duties because of the heaviness of the situation, which sees the interests of the 'ndrangheta orbiting in the city in a very marked way, as I have shown in the inspections 4-04150 and 4-05420 Moreover, the Northern League has a lot to make amends in terms of legality, as I argued in the written question 4-06374, in which I denounced that the conductor of Radio Padania, Pier Luigi Pellegrin, in the transmission of the previous evening had responded to a listener of Bergamo as follows: I would rather be governed by the Mafia than by the Italian State. The Mafia in the South at least, some service gives it, the Italian State uses my money to pay Gad Lerner, Michele Santoro, those of RAI. He would later add: "The Mafia, if I defend myself from the thief, does not come to jail (...) The taxes that the Italian State puts on me are like the lace of the Mafia in the South, with the difference that the Italian State never stops putting them on me. I therefore ask the answer to these questions, as well as to the question 3-03698 on the situation of General Electric of Sesto San Giovanni and I hope that Monica Chitto, the outgoing mayor, will be re-elected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ricchiuti, undersecretary Pizzetti, who is present, will surely have recorded his requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u141	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-842.ana.u142	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 21 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
