ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u9	Colleagues, the session has begun. I ask you to decrease the volume of your voice, because we need to listen to what Senator Di Maggio is about to say. I'd beg everyone to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u10	You have it, Senator of May. DI MAY (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I believe that what happened yesterday deserves serious consideration. I understand that, when you have the venture or - pardon - the misfortune of entrusting the diplomacy of the country to those who have given ample proof of themselves on the case Shalabayeva, certain things can happen. But the diplomatic slap that took our country yesterday I believe urgently deserves the presence of the President of the Council in this House to report on what happened, and that is what I request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u11	The Presidency will undertake to report your request to the Government, Senator Di Maggio.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u14	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I agree with Mr Di Maggio and ask the President-in-Office to report, but not so much and not only on the Libyan issue, but on Operation Sophia because there seems to be an extension of his which, as far as we know, instead of combating illegal immigration has favoured it. Compared to the Libyan issue, on the other hand, more than President Gentiloni Silveri, who has been cut off from everything, I would invite President Macron, who certainly knows more about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u15	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2860. Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. [[Brusio]] I ask colleagues to talk and call in a lower tone of voice. You have the floor, Senator Perrone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with one consideration: we are discussing today the conversion of a decree-law which provides for policies aimed at stimulating economic development in the South, while in the coming weeks we will be called upon to examine the draft law on small municipalities. This certainly represents a positive signal of attention to the citizens of the Mezzogiorno. And, above all, the young people have put many of their hopes in the measure under consideration. It is precisely for this reason that it is important that at the present stage the legislator does not fall into contradictions which could undermine the credibility of his actions. On the one hand, we have a decree-law that provides incentives for youth entrepreneurship, the establishment of a land bank that looks like an important initiative for the redevelopment of the territory, as well as the establishment of special economic zones for the port areas of the South. On the other side of the balance, however, we have a gigantic public system that does not pay its suppliers, i.e. an input in which as many as 900,000 companies work, and an estimated debt of between EUR 32 and 46 billion. Legislative coherence is not an added value, it is an essential factor. We must assume the responsibility of becoming the protagonists of a new process of economic development in the Mezzogiorno which, by enhancing the development of local resources in the South, can be projected into the global scenario. The objective we should pursue as legislators is not to create conditions for the South to match the North, but to allow the Mezzogiorno to find its way through the peculiarities that distinguish its territorial heritage, from tourism, agriculture, Made in Italy, quality craftsmanship and industry. Well, I would like to remind this House that it is in the Southern regions that 50% of the cars and commercial vehicles of the FIAT group are produced. It is always in the southern territory that important production centers of the aerospace industry are located. It is in the Mezzogiorno that some of the largest portacontainers of the Mediterranean are located, as well as the plants of the largest pharmaceutical industries in the world. And let's not forget that Puglia is the first region producing wind energy on a national scale and the second for fossil fuels, while it is located in Brindisi the most powerful thermal power plant in Italy. If not even the presence of strategic sectors of Italian industry in the Mezzogiorno and territorial wealth have managed to guarantee the necessary economic and social development of the South, it is necessary to ask what has not worked. The southern issue is therefore not just a question of funding. It depends on the planning factors of the interventions and investments of the Government in the territory that have a certain beginning and an end. In 2015 the Government presented the Masterplan, with which it intended to start a comparison with the Regions and metropolitan cities for the implementation of the 15 Pacts for the South, with funding of 95 billion euros until 2023. Nearly two years later, the Masterplan was very late in providing funding due to the lack of real consultation with the local authorities and excessive bureaucratic slowness. This suggests that policies of rebalancing and integration of the overall economic system are needed. Incentives for youth entrepreneurship, rapid investment and special economic zones are in this direction. However, we can expect positive results only to the extent that the territory will benefit from such facilities in its entirety, through greater receptivity of services for citizens and, above all, through new infrastructures. If these are the objectives to be achieved, then the legislator cannot think of leaving on the bench the local authorities, who were the first to suffer the consequences of the economic crisis; an error of assessment to determine the real strengthening of the whole chain of services, but above all to accompany the birth of new enterprises on the territory in a path of development that is free from the presence of organized crime, which we well know is a plague strongly rooted in the South. The Commission's decision to exclude commercial activities from the benefits of funding could be unpredictative, since it is precisely the presence of commercial activities that create social aggregation centres that can provide more services for citizens and tourism. It is tourism itself that gives an idea of the negative consequences of sectoral policies which do not take account of the general context in which they intervene. The accommodation facilities in the South, according to the ISTAT data reported in 2016, account for just 17.3 percent of those in Italy. For this reason, despite the immense cultural and landscape heritage, the tourist presences in the South correspond to just 24.7% at national level and 13.9% of foreign tourism: a truly bleak reality, which reopens yet another discussion on the lack of infrastructure, without which entrepreneurs have no advantage in opening structures for tourism. I would like to say a few words about the special economic zones. We have at hand an excellent opportunity to overcome the current logistic gap, investing on all the harbour system as a whole. Therefore, the adaptation of technological systems and the improvement of roads and railways are needed to make people's mobility easier and faster. Despite the strategic geographic position of the Italian ports, the traffic of the goods and the passengers strongly suffers from the competition of the other Countries that face the Mediterranean, many of which already for some time have instituted Special economic Zones to the detriment of the routes towards the Italian ports. The attention, therefore, will have to be directed mainly to overcome the enormous logistic and infrastructural deficiencies, through a coordination of the national operating system of the infrastructures that makes profitable the transport of the goods from the rest of the Country to the ports falling in the special areas. I conclude wishing that to the Apulian ports is given the possibility to become harbour system of reference of the southern Adriatic and the coasts that face the Ionian one, identifying - as demanded from several parts - a Special Economic Zone, unique for all the ports of the Region, thus recovering the national logistic gap accumulated in the course of the last years. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u17	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers of our Government, this measure looks with great interest to the Mezzogiorno of Italy and represents an important signal of attention to that southern issue which in recent decades, in the public debate of our country, has always been considered a wasteful topic and even to be removed from the political and cultural agenda. It has not been understood that the southern question today is the question of the country. When the South of Italy stops or, worse still, backs (as has happened in recent decades), it stops and reverses the GDP of Italy and the country as a whole. The decree-law before us contains rules for simplification, but it also contains appropriations on some important guidelines. I would like to mention two in particular: the first is to allocate resources to create new entrepreneurship and another interesting director is to generate attractive phenomena for new investments. In this respect, the identification of the ZES, the Special Economic Zones, is an interesting sign. There are also other measures worthy of attention that I will discuss in detail later. I cannot overlook the measures which have an environmental impact on the South, of my particular interest to the Commission which I chair, especially the part devoted to ILVA and reclamation operations, which must concern not only the industrial plant but also the surrounding areas. These measures give the possibility to use concretely the sums confiscated from the property in order to intervene with a series of initiatives that contribute to the reclamation and restoration of the entire area. Finally, I believe that it is very important, in Article 12, to focus attention on universities by identifying the standard costs of funding them. However, I must make a few notations: in the area of new entrepreneurs I look with great interest at the concept that is expressed in Article 1. Although it concerns the South, this part in my opinion must be perfected, beyond the conversion into law of the decree-law to our examination, through a series of implementing measures on which the utmost attention must be paid, because they must escape the demagogy that has very often concerned this matter, especially when it comes to land and uncultivated or abandoned property. I believe that, as I said earlier, there is a great deal of interest in the issue of special economic zones, and in this regard I must congratulate the rapporteur, Senator Simona Vicari, precisely because this part of the measure has been particularly improved during the work of the Budget Commission. As far as measures for agriculture are concerned, I think we should mention with great interest the eco-friendly strategies - and therefore ecologically sustainable - against the damage caused by a beetle to the cultivation of carob in Sicily, the damage caused by the bacterium of the annoying xylella in the olive oil sector and those resulting from the spread of cinereal botrytis in the wine sector. These are signs of great attention to the agricultural world, which in my opinion should not be underestimated at all, just as the possibility of restoring and securing the A24 and A25 motorways, which have been upset by the seismic events of recent years, should not be underestimated. On the whole, we can say that this is a measure that looks at different sectors and offers a number of useful signals. Certainly more and better could have been done: in my opinion, more courage would have been needed in some matters left out of the measure under consideration and, given the drought emergency that is now present throughout the country, more could and should have been done in the area of irrigation infrastructure. I would like to address Mr De Vincenti: more could have been done in this area. In this parliamentary term we have a grave fault and a grave responsibility, which are those of having depowered the institutions that had as their mission the strengthening of the irrigation infrastructure. I am referring in particular to the ex-Agensud administration, which has been abolished, giving its powers to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Forestry Policy. In a hasty and erroneous manner, in fact, the Government and Parliament have not laid down the procedures for the transfer of these powers. Therefore, substantial funding has been lost in these passages and the application procedures provided for in the previous legislation, committing a real crime against this sensitive sector. Today we have dozens of unfinished works, of invasions that cannot be used, the system of irrigation interconnections has not been completed and is abandoned to itself. Finally, we have hundreds of disputes that are coming to the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy on this matter, which is absolutely strategic for the economic recovery of entire areas of the Mezzogiorno. The lack of such measures is even more evident in a particularly insidious and droughty year such as the one in progress. I am saying this in order to leave to the record the testimony of a vulnus that we have brought against the irrigation system and, in particular, the water systems necessary for agriculture, which in my opinion are to be totally attributed to those who have managed the Ministry of Agriculture food and forestry policies in recent years. However, I would also like to leave a partial satisfaction with the measure in question, which in any case represents a positive signal of attention to the economy of the Mezzogiorno and, precisely as I said in the preamble, to the national economy. [[Applause from Senator Dalla Tor]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u19	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u20	Madam President, I would like to say at once that if the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno and the measures referred to as 'Resto al Sud' were credible, for me (from Basilicata) it would have been a pleasure to vote on them but, unfortunately, I must say that this is not the case. I would remind all of us that we are not going away from the South by choice, but by necessity due to the disastrous political choices of various governments, including the current one which, in a few months - I would like to remind you - for the second time attempts to introduce measures on the South. In that which we are now examining, as unfortunately has been the case for some time, there is no effective work programme at all. The facts are that over the last eight years, more than 600,000 jobs have been lost in the South with farce measures. The result is that youth unemployment in the South in some places is as high as 60%, the overall 20%. There is an unprecedented school dispersal because, sometimes, families have to choose between eating or sending their children to school. That's the truth. The gap between North and South is growing, so much so that one person in two is at risk of poverty. Unfortunately, this is the picture. Now I'll tell you why I'm staying in the South is an empty title, starting with Article 13 of the measure, where the topic should be employment and environmental protection. Instead, the infinite dispute of the ILVA risks ending in thousands of redundancies, without considering the induced and with no concrete commitment to the environment. The new property, after announcing 5,500 redundancies, would now be "down" - we say - to 4,200. That is unacceptable. Equally unacceptable is the implementation of the environmental plan, which must be carried out - you wrote it - by 2023. I want to remind all of us that we are in 2017 and we have been talking about the environmental reclamation plan since 2013, i.e. since the beginning of the legislative period, and this majority has already voted for several referrals on the environmental issue. I'm just saying this to remember. I would like to point out, among other things, that at the Ilva in Taranto - sometimes one forgets the important things - there are still 4,000 tons of asbestos recorded and that the coverage of the parks, which is always expected to do, has been a priority for years already. That is precisely why, instead of writing smoky things in Article 13, I had presented with my Group an agenda where the Government simply committed itself to obtaining employment, health and environmental rehabilitation guarantees, indicating a certain beginning and end of the work, so as to give a precise signal. Work cannot be at the expense of health and, unfortunately, this is something we understand in that area. With reference to Article 10, I remember that with the jobs act not only the workers have lost their rights in terms of freedom and dignity in the workplace with the abolition of the famous article 18 of the Workers' Statute, but in the eternal expectation of the fantastic active policies of which there is no trace, and of which this Government boasted, many today are at the threshold of sixty years without work and without social shock absorbers, because this also provides for the jobs act, that is, the cut of social shock absorbers, a further form of punishment for the workers. We have tabled amendments that give more resources to relocation agencies, as we are behind the scenes in Europe on relocation and active labour policies. Other than the things you rinse your mouth with. We have always called for an amendment to put an end to an absurd paradox. We have tabled an amendment aimed at stabilising the 800 precarious workers of ANPAL, former Italy at work, because we consider it inconceivable - if it were not a tragedy, it would be a joke - that the employees who should take care of the active policies, namely to relocate the 60-year-old workers who remain out of work for your bad choices, be themselves precarious. We are truly at a paradox without limits. And we are tabling amendments which you call of common sense. They are of common sense, but, already knowing that trust will be placed, they will not be welcomed. So I don't know what we're talking about. I would really like you to reflect on these issues. The data on the South that I have reported to you by now are before everyone's eyes. In the other speech that I have made I have also reported the data of the Association for the industrial development of the Mezzogiorno (SVIMEZ), from which it can even be seen that, if these bad policies will not change in the next twenty-five years, 4.2 million citizens of the South will be forced to leave. On the other hand, you continue with inconsistent policies. We have tabled very few amendments and agendas which go in the direction of correcting the nefariousness done towards the South, but I see once again that unfortunately nothing will happen. The measure "Remaining in the South" could have meaning if only these common sense demands were accepted, but this will not happen again. And, therefore, we will once again say no to this measure, because it is smoky, it has nothing concrete and it does not meet the needs of the South which are true, in the eyes of all. And only the majority and the government once again pretend not to Noticing. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u21	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u22	Madam President, I would like to speak briefly in general debate on the measure under consideration in which the Mezzogiorno is concerned. We have talked about the Mezzogiorno in this House a few times, but we have been talking about it for too many years. Yesterday Antonio Gramsci was mentioned, who studied and told us about the southern question, the opposition between the classes and between the workers of the North and the peasants of the South. It seems to be such an old story that it is strange to talk today about Mezzogiorno, but unfortunately we must do so, because that area of the country is still in a state of backwardness. And this is partly the fault of the rulers, mainly southern, but sometimes also of the people who do not love their land to the end, otherwise we would not have certain disasters, which are also due to the lack of care and mainly to the conditions in which the populations of the Mezzogiorno are maintained, that is in that normal condition of backwardness and poverty that serves the powerful on duty in order to be able to play on their skin. The Mezzogiorno would need a choral vision, together, of a real change of pace. On the contrary, in this measure, as usual, we do not have a general framework; we do not see the direction towards which we want to go and the way in which we want to give a different destiny to those who live in the Mezzogiorno. And that would be good for the economy, so maybe you should remember it and understand it well. Special economic zones (SEZs) are planned. It may have been talked about in Gioia Tauro for 20 years, but since things started to happen today, there are 4,800 ZES in the world, in Europe there are in Poland. Perhaps we were a little late, partly because, so structured, the ZES do not have a clear picture. Those who remember the history of the Mezzogiorno will also remember that, when companies that enjoyed the famous tax credits and facilities of various types and after five years could leave, they have almost always done so: they give them facilities, the companies settle there, take the money, campicchiano and leave. We had therefore asked for an extension of the deadline, which in the Commission is worthwhile going from five to seven years. Perhaps, however, they are not yet sufficient, since we are talking about amounts of EUR 50 million. Maybe we should have thrown our hearts over the obstacle there too and put ten years. Perhaps, in this way, he allows a business that reaches the south to stay there. Then it must also be said that, when purchasing goods, perhaps one should ensure that part, if not all, of the goods is produced in the Mezzogiorno, setting a percentage limit on the production of the short supply chain, also because this should be a ZES. It's not just a transformation zone, where you come with materials, you transform and export. It must serve the economy of the Mezzogiorno, because otherwise we do not produce employment. What kind of occupation do we produce? At Gioia Tauro we want to work the agricultural products that are produced in the plain or what? Or what do we do to Gioia Tauro? Let's make another small cathedral in the desert as happened at the time of the port, which was made to establish in that reality the sixth steel mill of the country, and then we gave the concession to a single dealer, with the expiration to 2040? Do we want to give those people a different hope? We have therefore asked for changes to be made. Then, however, there are also a few particular points. An amendment has been inserted in the Commission, which talks about the Autostrada dei Parche, that of Abruzzo, just to understand us. A special amendment was already introduced in the maneuver, giving the concessionaire the opportunity to pay the concessionary charges not immediately, but within 12 years, because it had to adapt the bridges. It's a little odd that you don't charge the concessionary fees, which are the charges that the concessionaire pays to the state to do what he had to do and didn't do. In these cases it is necessary to have the courage to tell the dealers that, if they have not done their duty, it is necessary to see if there are the extremes to terminate the contract, because otherwise nothing is ever done. Instead, with the measure under consideration, we give him another 50 million. That's not good. That's not good. What does this mean? It is true that users will not pay more on the tariff - and there would be more - but, if one does not do his duty, one must be able to be rigorous. This applies to all motorway dealers. When an amendment was made in 2008 by the Berlusconi Government, that is, when the single concession was changed, the Antitrust wandered the Government, saying that the criterion by which the tariff was calculated was wrong, because it increased the economic advantages to the dealer to the detriment of consumers. Maybe you forgot that. Maybe it's too long you've been in here and you don't care anymore. Perhaps this is the sadness of one who has been in here for four years, like all my colleagues, and perhaps still tries to feel exquisitely normal. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Normality - as I said once in this House - is to have the courage to enforce the rules. I am saying this to the part of the House that it declares itself liberal - I have already made a speech - but in reality it is the nemesis of what it means to be liberal, and unfortunately I add. And that applies not only to dealerships, but to many other things. You have to have the courage to do the right things. And we are facing this challenge, a challenge that will then see us "fight" for the next election. But if there's no courage, we're not going anywhere. When we continue to read a decree-law like this for the Mezzogiorno we see that there is no courage, there is no distress, there is no desire to change the country in the foundations and to start hitting those in it for too many years have dried up resources to the detriment of the community. We're not going anywhere. We need a project that concerns the South, because it is an ancient issue, and the North allows us to "reconquer" the North, where companies are now "invaded" by exports and imports of goods, but above all by imports of goods coming from the ports of Northern Europe. And then we talk about the ports; we talk about the fact that Italy is able to make the logistic platform of the Mediterranean, when we import the goods from the ports of Rotterdam and Hamburg? What are we talking about? This country no longer has a vision, but the problem is above all that you do not have the vision. Anyway, we'll talk about it after the election when we show you how it's done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u23	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u24	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the economy of the Mezzogiorno is certainly growing. This is said by the latest published statistics, which show percentages in some cases even better than the national average. The number of companies grows, turnover grows, investment grows, the quality and quantity of machinery installed in companies in the South grows. They are however percentages that still have the "zero comma" and that, compared to the numbers, do not stand the comparison with the most industrialized part of the Country, because we speak of 3,5 million enterprises in the South out of more than 15 million in Italy, of a turnover of 433 billion regarding the almost 3,000 billion of the Country, of gross investments pairs to less than 15 billion regarding the 85 on national base. The figures also show an employment of 47 percent compared to 61.6 percent of the national average, with 19 percent of young people leaving school compared to 13.8 percent of the national average; an unemployment rate of 21 percent compared to 7.6 percent in the North; a youth unemployment rate of 56.3 percent in the South, which is more than twice the figure for the North. In addition, if we relate the labour market to GDP per capita, employment and unemployment rates and the risk of poverty or social exclusion, we note that in 2007 the employment rate gap was 20.1% for the benefit of the North; in 2016 the scissors widened, with a spread of 22.5 percent. In the regional ranking stands the distance between the first and the last of the class. If last year the percentage of people employed in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano was 72.7 percent, in Calabria it was 39.6 percent: a gap of more than 33 percent. In the light of these data, the measure before us, which at first reading would seem to contain positive and even innovative rules, is not really enough. The fact that all the decree-laws are virtually at zero cost renders any intention of the measures in question in vain immediately. We are faced with a measure deemed urgent, but it does not allocate an additional penny compared to what is already planned for this year, but not even for the three-year period 2018-2020. Therefore, the decree-law is reduced to remodelling, in some cases even in a creative way, expenditure on the Mezzogiorno compared to the multiannual funds already planned by Europe. The measure that opens and guides the decree-law seems to be the one called "Resto al Sud", which proposes to retain in the Mezzogiorno young people under 35 who do not have a contract of employment, who are not owners of enterprises and who have not already benefited from public incentives aimed at self-entrepreneurship in the three years before the application for financing, assigning them a financing of 50,000 euros, partly lost funds and partly in the form of a loan to zero interest. It is, moreover, a measure with a total of 1.25 billion of the Development and Cohesion Fund planned for the years 2014-2020. If more young people decide to join, they can join up to a maximum of 200,000 euros. So it could affect up to 25,000 projects, which could activate up to 50,000 jobs: certainly a limited audience in the ratio between the number employed and the number of unemployed in the poorest part of the country. We certainly hope that some genuine entrepreneurial initiative, capable of its own life, will lay the foundations with these contributions. However, the question arises as to whether it is still appropriate to make money available in this way. This provision will probably be able to turn an important amount of funding into current expenditure which should have become investment in development. The doubt is that, in most cases, these loans of 50,000 euros, which - as I have already mentioned - are partly lost (35 per cent) and partly to be repaid in eight years, but without interest, will simply turn into a sort of fixed-term citizenship income. At least it would have been appropriate for the public contribution to be accompanied, for example, by a further examination by the credit system, on the goodness of the project and its financing; or, always, for example, if the public contribution had been tied to private financing to show that the project is really believed and that it has a real chance of being on the market. Such measures can hardly give a boost to GDP that will continue beyond the time period for which they have been planned. The measures included in the measure cut out a large proportion of those with working experience to be transformed into entrepreneurial initiative, with legitimate but excessive attention, towards unemployed young people and NEETs, i.e. those who do not seek employment and do not attend a school, nor a training or vocational training course. The fact that we have now expanded, thanks to the work of the Budget Commission, the forecast of contributions to tourism and cultural heritage is certainly positive, but not sufficient. Extending the liberal professions has been a serious lack for a government that really aims to reform the country. This is all the more true in view of the fact that the sums provided for in the Decree-Law would be more appropriate for the start-up of commercial or professional activities for those service sectors which are predominant in the creation of our GDP, but which remain inexplicably excluded. The basic principle is that the ratio of investment expenditure to current expenditure should be changed. Most of the funds acquired for the development of areas in need of greater cohesion end up turning into spending to support job creation, which unfortunately ends with the end of the contribution. We cannot continue to endorse buffer measures. The country really calls for structural reforms that involve all categories: unemployed, workers, entrepreneurs and professionals, without discrimination. This fact seems to be a spiral that has been chased for many years, since the theme of the development of the southern areas of the country is on the agenda since the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno, created by Alcide De Gasperi. At present, the amount of transfers has been calculated that funds of at least EUR 140 billion have been allocated to the Mezzogiorno in recent years. I remember the Marshall Plan cost 14. The planned interventions (which in the Government's intentions are aimed, on the one hand, at overcoming the gap between the regions of the South of Italy and the rest of the country and, on the other hand, at introducing new instruments aimed at the growth of the regions of the Mezzogiorno, also through measures for future young entrepreneurs) do not seem to us the most appropriate ones. I would like to remind you that 5,950,000 are the workers of the Mezzogiorno, out of a total of 22,465,000 in Italy and it should be borne in mind that our country has the lowest employment rate after Greece, 18 percentage points away - I repeat: 18 points - from that of Germany. The unemployed in the South are 1,432,000, out of a total of just over 3 million in Italy, while the NEETs are 1,821,000 out of a total of 3,276,000. The problem of cohesion policies, the ease and appropriateness of access to available resources and, in many cases, the usefulness of interventions remains open. Several others are the measures contained in the Decree-Law, starting with that on the ZE, for which we certainly appreciate the work carried out by Minister De Vincenti, to which others have been added during the work of the Budget Commission, but which do not change the substance. We see that a far-sighted approach is needed in assessing the effectiveness of the use of resources and their programming, which exceeds the logic of the so-called Mezzogiorno borne by the State. Investment for the South is 17% of the country's total, which is still too little for a geographical area that represents a third of the population. We all know that it is necessary to remove the cultural, environmental and social obstacles that still keep private capital away, in order to promote a true market economy that confirms those pale positive signs of growth, which are also there and which we have highlighted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at the decree-law for economic growth in the Mezzogiorno, which follows the one converted last February by a few months. The previous measure for the increase of the South has intervened on some immediate urgencies, from the CIGS of the ILVA, to the topic of the single commissioner for the purification, to the strengthening of the credit of tax, extending it also to territories that the law of stability had not understood, simply for a different calculation of the average income, to the important participation in support of the international crisis of the ports dedicated to the transhipment, with the participation on the agency of relocation and formation of the harbour workers. I recalled the decree-law converted four months ago to say that the measure under consideration today is not the only intervention in favour of the South. In fact, during this parliamentary term a great deal has been tried so that the crisis in the South, which was the one most felt by the country, could be mitigated. The choice to intervene on the ILVA and the way in which the previous Government has done so - confirmed by the current one - is not trivial: it means to keep the basic infrastructures standing so that the industrial and manufacturing system of the South can resist. Compared to the measure of February last, this new decree-law presents much more important interventions, partly also structural, which have importance or consequences essential for the South, also in the face of interventions that apply throughout the national territory (i.e. the intervention on the university). The decree-law then coincides with figures published just yesterday, already mentioned also by the colleague who preceded me, which justify and strengthen the need for a rebalancing of financial policies towards the Mezzogiorno and for further investment in human resources present in the South. We can look at the South with the data of the last seven years, with the data of the last fifteen years, but in reality we can also look at them with the data of the last two years, which are very different and which mark a recovery that would hurt not to look and not to cultivate with specific interventions such as those that are present in this decree-law, that are perhaps not enough, but that certainly go in the right direction. If the data published yesterday are real - and I think they are, otherwise they should be refuted - the Regions of the Mezzogiorno in 2016 grew more than the national average and nothing makes us think that in 2017 this does not continue to happen. Of course, GDP grows little in the country, but the fact that it grows more in the Southern regions is not a trivial sign. Export goes up in the first three months of 2017, which travels to 12.7% against 9.7% national, but not all data are at pre-crisis levels, so we haven't recovered the 2007-2008 data yet. This fact and the slowness of the recovery certainly make the positive phase less perceptible among the citizens, who understandably struggle to see that something is starting again, especially in the Mezzogiorno, that they struggle to acquire certainty in their own perspective. Growth in GDP and industry, however, are important signs on which to invest and continue to work. But let us also look at the data with its lights and shadows. Businesses grow by number and as a committed capital, thus strengthening the entrepreneurial fabric of the Mezzogiorno, but this growth does not correspond proportionally to an increase in the number of people employed, above all the pace has not been maintained in 2015. In the first six months of 2017, 55,000 new workers in the Mezzogiorno are still missing, but 400,000 are still in employment compared to 2007. The number of people seeking work is growing, but the black and deep hole, which we must fill, is above all in those young people who do not study or work, nor above all in search of work: half of them are young people without a degree of study, they are children of discomfort, of the displacement of the training system after the reform of 1978, when the vocational training system has passed to the Regions and only the regions of the North have managed to keep it up as an integrated opportunity to the school. They are children of the rigidity of school systems in front of the outskirts and small communities where distance is poorly reconciled with a real and acquireable right to study. Numbers that certainly decrease in these years, thanks to the land recovered from the school and the university but still we are to 1,8 million people under the thirty-five years in this condition in the Mezzogiorno. In short, as a result of a violent selection process, an economic fabric emerges from the crisis in the Mezzogiorno with fewer businesses, small but more structured. A violent selection that has reduced the number of businesses and reduced the proportion of employees, has left the firmest, strongest and most efficient companies standing, which are now capitalised, less indebted and more bankable. Manufacturing companies, as shown by the data on added value, but also enterprises that grow with the growth of culture and tourism, despite the South's public administrations on culture spend - or can spend - only four euros per capita against the 13 of the North; despite this, the companies and enterprises in the Mezzogiorno in these fields grow thanks to a resurgence of the archaeological and cultural capital of the Mezzogiorno. And again for the Mezzogiorno there is still a small light that I want to point out: 30% are the innovative start-ups against 26 percent of the Centre-North. Of course, these are small signals which, by the way, fit into a Mezzogiorno which is not all the same. We would be wrong to think of it as one great territory. In fact, the constant element in this territory is that the Regions are at the last places in Italy and in Europe for index of competitiveness. An index, however, that depends not only on endogenous factors, that is to say on the quality of local administrations, but also on the fact that from 2001 to 2015 - the first major exception - the difference between public expenditure for the North and that for the South has constantly increased, with a growing gap. Among other things, in the Mezzogiorno, what should be an additional and non-substitutive expenditure, i.e. that resulting from the Structural Funds, actually accounts for more than 60% of capital expenditure. And it does not help the fact that in the transition years, such as 2014 and 2015, there has also been an impressive slowdown in European resources. Good. Despite these limitations, despite the slowness of expenditure, despite these infrastructure constraints which exist and are certain, a minimum increase in attention, such as that of the last two or three years, has led to an improvement in the conditions of growth of the Mezzogiorno, which means that the potential of the Mezzogiorno has ample scope for improving and correcting weak points. Now we have to think about the fact that those figures are true that say that the Mezzogiorno has elements that are very far from the Italian average. The previous speakers mentioned the employment rate. For the Europe 2020 project, Italy has a target of between 67 and 69 percent compared to Southern regions traveling with significantly lower numbers, from 58 percent of Abruzzo to 43 percent of Sicily. I would also mention the data from school leaving and from graduates that almost all regions of the Mezzogiorno are below the national average. These, however, are objective figures that must be reconfigured compared to the fact that, due to the crisis that hit him, the Mezzogiorno needs more time to restart. They are not unattainable objectives and this is demonstrated by the improvements of these years. All this, the fact that there are specific points on which to intervene and the fact that one can work by diversifying the territories while having a common framework of reference, motivates the main choices present in this decree-law. Of course, we will need a real New Deal for the Mezzogiorno. We know that Italy can be competitive when it knows how to be innovative, versatile, creative. When he focuses on the strength of the territories, when he knows how to diversify, when he knows how to enhance his talents and when he focuses on the beauty of his history, his culture, his landscapes and his productions. In the Mezzogiorno all this is, deep down, and there is an embryo of awareness that can allow the territory to start again. This is demonstrated by the data on tourism, this is demonstrated by those companies that have challenged the crisis on excellence, on the care of the territory, on quality products, on innovative brands. It is a question of bringing out the South that already exists, restoring confidence, enhancing legality and supporting its action. This decree-law is perhaps not the one that starts a New Deal for the Mezzogiorno, but it certainly contributes to the idea that we can invest in the Mezzogiorno and that the European resources that, over the years, have not always been coherent and able to invest in a visible way, and indeed often doing so in a way too dispersed, return to have clear objectives, shared, visible and perceptible by the population. I mention only three of the many interventions contained in the decree-law to our examination, because I think they deserve to be reported. I'm staying in the South isn't worthless. It is an effort to cultivate a manufacturing sensitivity that exists and that emerges for personal micro-enterprises. Yes, even small businesses can grow up, but if they aren't small at least when they leave, it's hard for them to grow. But there is also space for societies to be built that multiply potentialities and capital. Resting in the South is also an effort to maintain young people, intelligences or talents in the Mezzogiorno or to recall them if they are doing waiters abroad, so that they can find space to try or try again in their land. A few thousand euros per head, 40,000 up to a maximum of 200,000, a third lost fund and two thirds to be returned without interest in eight years; not a few, not many, I realize, but I am what it takes to start small innovative and manufacturing initiatives. If I may suggest something to the government, I think this is an important national measure, which needs to be tested and, if positive, it does not have to be occasional and finish after three years. It is necessary to stabilize rules such as these so that they can have access not only to those who are ready today, perhaps for family reasons, because the family is doing business, rather than to personal capacity. It must not be a spot measure, but a measure that must find a stabilisation over time, if shared, even with the necessary corrections and beyond the objective of the 100,000 new enterprises. We need to do this for a whole generation that has been excluded from these ten years of crisis and is hungry for an opportunity. It is in this direction that also goes the measure, which I have very much shared, of extension to the Regions in order to finance the enterprises according to a regional ranking. Also there to avoid that each Region takes its own path to help the youth enterprise; better that it is a visible path, of national estate, visibility and national structuring, transparent, to which access through the resources that each Region makes available for those companies that, although selected and approved in the business plan, do not find economic coverage. I don't know if it's too much attention to young people, but if we don't get the kids back until we're 35, that lost generation won't find a sense of being in his land. In this direction the intervention called the "Bank of the Earth" is right; an intervention that I consider symbolic, but that can be decisive. It is a good practice already done by some regions that is being extended at national level. It is a symbolic intervention, but we cannot deny that agriculture today is not only a fashion for the country, but a necessity and a professional frontier, a frontier of innovative production and research because the whole world is hungry and needs our ability to produce advanced agriculture for us and for the rest of the world. It will be necessary to ensure, Minister, that this initiative is not implemented by the municipalities only because of the lack of resources or the lack of pressure or control. There are many lands that are not used and we must make it quick for the times of this initiative to be reconciled with expectations. Finally, I would like to focus on the special economic zones (SEZs), which are regulated by this legislation and which have long been awaited. As the rapporteur said, the initial hypothesis was that three special economic zones, corresponding to the three main ports in the Mezzogiorno, were set up. The Government has instead put forward the proposal, which was later extended by the Commission, to give at least one opportunity per Region with the idea of a network. Of course, networking is more difficult than having only a large port as in the systems of the North, it is more complex and complicated, but we need, precisely because of the diversity and articulation of the various zones, that every territory does not feel abandoned, that there are no exclusionary choices, but inclusive choices. In time we will see whether those initiatives will turn into an effective structure. It was also right to extend the opportunity also to Molise and Abruzzo. The ZES are not revolutionary, but concrete and clear measures if we take them with the clarity that the norm represents. These are territories with simplified customs corridors, with protocols that speed up administrative transactions and, therefore, in fact, zero bureaucracy. They are places where the so-called Visco Sud, the tax credit, can be extended for duration and entities with processes more important in size, even up to 50 million; they are guided by the new harbour authorities and can be extended within the same also understanding more ports, if these contain them. Am I a panacea for the difficulties of the business fabric of the Mezzogiorno? No, because this is a selective measure, but it is intended precisely for two weaknesses in the business system of the Mezzogiorno. It is a selective measure aimed at companies that have an interest in exporting or importing and that see simplification and acceleration of customs processes as a strong competitive advantage. In short, it is a measure that stimulates exports and imports and seeks to reduce the costs and complexity of their transactions. The effort to strengthen the opportunities of weak and fragile regions is certainly positive without excluding any of the possible vocations. Equally useful is the attempt (I also think that it could be ten years, but seven years are important) to limit the moral hazard of those who seek, in the short time, to obtain funding and then to leave, even if we are actually talking here not about financing, but about the possibility of using tax credits. This is therefore a limited figure. Finally, there are rules on universities, which cover the whole of the Italian university system. Introduced by the Government to respond to a decision of the Constitutional Court, it was also an opportunity for Parliament to correct the previous four years, in which the National University Fund generated unfair or profound differences between universities in the North and the South, which are partly recovered in the initial text of the measure, but even more so with the amendments approved in the Commission and drawn up in collaboration with the 8th Commission. These differences have been generated over the last four years for the application of equal parameters between universities in the South and North that cannot compete with each other for various factors: size and location, isolation, connection times, population density and postgraduate work opportunities. In short, the risk is that the young people of the South would pay this cost rather than those who run these universities. In this case, the corrective measures included in the Commission open a new season which gives proportionality to the application of the standard cost, reducing some rigidity and introducing some flexibility. What has been removed is not returned, but national funding is reported in a framework of greater justice and solidarity, waiting in a short time for the virtuous process, which has partly already been activated and which has seen many universities in the Mezzogiorno start a process of innovation, growth and strengthening, can achieve better results and with much higher ranking levels. There are many other interventions contained in this decree-law. Of course, we are not yet in a real global framework of interventions, but certainly the measure in our examination, with important structural measures and experiments and with answers to the youngest part of the population and to the innovative segments of the enterprises, gives a first answer and is a first step towards the New Deal that the Mezzogiorno of Italy needs. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u27	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to speak on a single point, the one which has been dealt with in Article 2 and which we have also dealt with in the Commission and which concerns the disbursements provided for in this decree-law for the Federconsorzi affair. Mr De Vincenti knows that we in the Commission have also challenged both the extraneous nature of this intervention, yet again on the Federconsorzi, and its inopportunity. This economic instrument was included in another measure some time ago. The clamour of the controversy for the further rescue of the Federconsorzi led the Government to cancel the rule, but Minister De Vincenti now proposed it in a decree-law that had nothing to do with it. This is a measure for the South, while that of the Federconsorzi is not an emblematic or exclusive story of the South. It may also have reflections in the South, but it mainly covers other areas. A fundamental principle of law is being changed and therefore the amendment cannot be approved, although reformulated by the Government, in a confused way, by introducing a system of derogations from the rules on corporate matters, without any valid economic reason, moreover in a decree-law that - I repeat - concerns the South. We cannot continue, Minister, with commercial interventions on agricultural consortia, without an organic plan to reorder the sector, which has always been the target of considerable public resources and favorable treatment, because the Federconsorzi affair is drawn from more legislation. All this is to the detriment of free competition and without any direct benefit to the development and growth of agricultural holdings. For this reason, in our view, it is a concern that the explanations put forward in favour of agricultural consortia have been indicated as legitimate for this choice - and also for the amendment produced and presented by Minister De Vincenti. The justifications are not convincing: for example, it has also been said that there is an economic difficulty of the consort system. If so, then, let us proceed to a reordering and have a debate to deal with this situation once and for all and not - I repeat - with spot speeches. The allocation of large public resources, which in recent years have been allocated to agricultural consortia, has never been resolved in any way to the benefit of the system. This has been seen with the story of the Federconsorzi, which I have already mentioned, that it has not yet ended and that it has engaged the Governments to find the most disparate and imaginative solutions. There must also be a silence from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, which also has primary powers in this area. So this aid must be overturned by the rule of law, by bringing capital companies into line with cooperative realities and by creating a tax advantage, which will have huge costs for public funds. I would remind you that the various tax advantages measures for agricultural consortia have not even been sufficient in the past to lift this sector from the crisis. History teaches, Minister De Vincenti, that system difficulties are not overcome by increasing the positions of rent and advantage enjoyed by those who have already shown that they use resources very badly. The attempt to justify this amendment with the equalisation of agricultural consortia to cooperatives, which would already have favourable treatment, is also out of place. The previous regulation recalled by the Government concerns the matter of tax treatment relating to the revaluation of the assets of cooperative companies, which can also be invoked by agricultural consortia, because they are framed as cooperative companies. The amendment, however, with a further derogation from the system, improperly recognizing the mutual nature of an activity carried out by societies even lucrative, creates confusion. It is therefore a messy and unconstitutional solution. Why do you do all this? I give it a political translation. All this is done because Coldiretti, who is the beneficiary of this rule, flattened herself on the Renzi Government on the occasion of the referendum campaign, filling the rooms and carrying labour, even unconscious. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] In this regard, I wish to express solidarity with all those members of Coldiretti, who did not follow the Diktats of their summits and who did not vote yes to the referendum. In fact, many of them voted no, aware that the Democratic Party and the Renzi and Gentile Governments Silveri have done nothing useful for the agricultural world. This was the basis of Coldiretti, as well as the basis of Confindustria and many important associations in the country. I know very well how important the history of Coldiretti is in the economic, productive, agricultural and also democratic and parliamentary life of the country. That is why Coldiretti must be respected, not manipulated, with buses for the yes in the referendum, as we have seen on many occasions. Then, dear friends of the Pd, it did not help to use organizations as labour to fill the theatres, because those who went to such demonstrations, perhaps voted yes because forced by their leaders, while the real audience was for the no and the result was seen. If the referendary result had been the one that could be recorded on paper, with Confindustria, Confcommercio, Coldiretti (I don't remember if even Confagricoltura) and many other sided for the yes, the PD would have had to win it at the table. But then people reacted. So this amendment is the "balance" of that game. So there is also a posthumous exchange vote: I give you the decree-law with the amendment on the Federconsorzi, because you gave me a vote for the yes. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like it to remain in the proceedings of this House that that rule, which has been included in Article 2, which has been amended by the Government and which several Groups had requested to be deleted, but which the Government has not deleted, is an exchange vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , which should also be of interest, perhaps, to other non-parliamentary areas, to give Coldiretti and Federconsorzi the pleasure received during the yes to the referendum. Those who direct it today respect their associates and the glorious history of Coldiretti, not making it the landing troop of the descending renzism, but making it the bulwark of the defense of the work and the labors of the agricultural world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u29	He is registered to speak Senator Esposito Stefano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u30	Madam President, I shall concentrate on three very important issues which have been dealt with in this important decree-law. These are three questions relating to situations requiring urgent action and which have an important impact, for example, on the whole mobility of the Mezzogiorno. I refer, in particular, to the restoration of the minimum market conditions that will allow Flixbus to operate on Italian territory. We know how impacting, in a positive sense, this service in the areas of the Mezzogiorno and we have done so through a work that will allow the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the MISE to put in place a table with all the operators, without excluding anyone and with the associations of category to define a regulation that guarantees accessibility to the Italian market taking into account the consolidated presence of operators in our territory. This, in my opinion, is an extremely positive and healthy fact in general terms, a debate that has been going on for a long time, without creating a preferential lane for anyone, but of course not even closing the mobility market, especially for young people in the Mezzogiorno. Madam President, the second very important issue is the restoration of Royal Decree No 148 of 1931, with which local public transport has been managed over the last seventy years. As my colleagues will know, this rule had been abolished by means of a parliamentary amendment included in the so-called'maneuverina' and it had created a situation of great disarray within the local public transport system. In view of the fact that this rule contained and still contains a very important point, namely the social clause, we have included two amendments which the Commission considered to be accepted by a very large majority. This is a sign on the ground of the very important social guarantees offered by this Parliament. On the one hand, we have incorporated the social clause for TPL workers into the legislation with these amendments and, on the other hand, we have fully transposed the Royal Decree of 1931. In this way, in my opinion, a response has also been given to the concerns of so many workers of the TPL and in this case has put in condition the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports to continue in the unitary work with the unions and the associations of category in order to revise, where necessary, this very old norm, perhaps inserting the stakes considered necessary to guarantee the workers of the local public transport within the collective agreements, as desired from several parts. I think this is a very important step forward. The fact that it has been shared by a very large majority by the Commission - I hope that this is a sign that it is perceived outside - is something I would like to stress. Madam President, last of all I would like to mention - and we have also discussed this with the rapporteurs - an issue; our proposal on this matter has been found inadmissible, we take note of it and we respect the decision taken but the issue remains open and we felt it was useful to include it in this decree-law: it concerns road hauliers. We are discussing very important European regulations and directives in the 8th Commission that will change the current legislation and regulations on road haulage and we focused on the issue of so-called cabin rest. You know that today drivers, not only Italian but European, have rest obligations. In large part they use the driving cab for the rest required by law. We believe that the rest of the drivers in the cabin does not guarantee sufficient safety on our roads, so we had tabled an amendment banning it. It has been considered inadmissible and of course we intend to accept this decision, as it should be. I would like to say to my fellow Members, in order to remain on the record, that this issue must be dealt with quickly and that the right balance must be found: our understanding is to favour the possibility, for those who do very hard work, such as road hauliers, that the rest of the law takes place in situations and contexts that are not the cabin. Of course, this amendment has been mentioned by saying that the penalties provided for were exclusively for drivers. The understanding is not to download the possible sanctions on the drivers, but to divide them also with the transport companies. However, I believe that good work has been done and that the issue of cabin rest must be taken up in the first useful measure, because it is very impacting on the lives of workers, but above all it is very important for safety on our roads.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u32	Madam President, Senators and Senators, the decree-law now under discussion and in the process of conversion deals with a subject which some might consider to be dealt with for the umpteenth time, the vexed question of the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno, a subject that has characterized and characterized the history of Italy for years, where the dimension of the South is not ancillary to the more general issue at national level, but represents a focal point of the development, not only economic, but also social, cultural and even democratic of our nation. A first question that is posed at the basis of the debate on Decree-Law No 91 of 2017 is whether this argument is being dealt with in such a way as to ensure a response that can be defined complete and exhaustive, that is to say that it definitively solves all the criticalities that have characterized for years, we could say for centuries, our southern reality. In the loyalty, sincerity and fairness that this House demands, we can certainly say, consciously and wisely, that this measure gives an answer that we can define as partial but significant, that goes to embrace issues among the most varied, that together represent pieces of a puzzle that must be composed. The measure contains measures relating to the economic aspect, but I believe that in the economic development of these realities there is also a fairly clear evidence of cultural development and democratic order, which means that our southern reality can fully represent a reference point in national life. Of course, for too long the South has suffered negative consequences of policies concentrated mainly in the most industrialized areas, so much so as to make marginalized also certain developments of the South, that here I must say strongly conditioned also by delinquent environments; in fact, the mafia and other realities (we remember the 'ndrangheta, the sacred united crown and the camorra) have certainly caused a lack of development and indeed a degradation of social and economic order whose repercussions are evident especially in some areas well known to all. Certainly the multiplicity of articles that characterize the decree-law in question would require a reasonable time to be able to carry out a specific analysis of each, because each of these articles deals in a detailed and specific manner with some characterizing aspects. However, I will only comment on an article which, because of my sensitivity, I think can be more carefully considered. In fact, I believe that from there one must and can start to characterize a real and concrete development of the Mezzogiorno. I refer specifically to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which refers precisely to urgent measures to combat child education poverty and school dispersal in the Mezzogiorno. Already in the titration of this article we see some key expressions, which are precisely "child education poverty" and "scholastic dispersion." These are two aspects which, from the statistical point of view (and not only) have a significant impact on certain specific areas of the Mezzogiorno. It is clear and clear to everyone that, when there is a child's educational poverty and where there is a significant school dispersal, there obviously alligna not only a lack of social development, but above all goes to allignare also a dispersion that will lead to not exactly refined paths, which are at a high rate of social deviance. And precisely where there is a lack of widespread educational formation, which characterizes especially the most disadvantaged areas and the most disadvantaged people and families, there can also be an attractive force of those realities however present, which can unfortunately become a negative reference point (I am obviously referring to criminal activity). I therefore believe that the Government has done well to pay particular attention to this aspect. I know that this is certainly not the only decree-law that has been interested in the subject. We know that the MIUR has participated intensely in the elaboration of this article, as well as Minister Finocchiaro, whom I thank and greet, because his southern sensitivity, as well as its southern origin, is the testimony of the particular attention he has always shown on these issues. It would be easy for me at this moment to use that expression recognized in the history of southernism, according to which there is no development of Italy if there is no development of the Mezzogiorno. But we must also tell ourselves how many times we have used this slogan, almost to hide responsibilities. That is why I believe that these measures are well received, and that is why the articles on this subject are well placed, because they address in a sincere and loyal way an issue that must involve everyone. I am referring above all, in this House many times characterized by positions that euphemistically define dialectical, to a contrast between geographical areas, where the North has considered to be characterized in a sort of perimeter of isolationism compared to other realities such as those of the South, which have desperately tried to be recognized in its own qualities and potential. In the context of these urgent interventions to combat child education poverty, I believe that there is a particular focus on the part of the Government, as I pointed out earlier, which allows us to activate interventions aimed at networks of schools in convention with local authorities, subjects in the third sector, territorial structures also of the CONI, national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and various sports promotion agencies or educational services, both public for children, and operating in the territory concerned and not only, in order - this is the important aspect - to design and implement, in the areas of social exclusion, educational interventions in favour of children, aimed at combating the risk of early training failure, educational poverty, as well as for the prevention of situations of fragility in relation to the attractiveness of crime. Of course, when we speak of fragility, we can decline it by adjectiving it: there can be a fragility of an economic order and a fragility of a social order. But, if you allow me in this House, even before the fragility of the economic or social order, what really ends with the engraving and conditioning of democracy in some areas of our territory is the so-called cultural fragility, as the Latins recalled in the etymology of the word (it comes from the color that means "cultivating"). If you do not cultivate social education, if you do not decline a social life of formation and integration, then it follows that any other social deprivation will certainly lead to added fragility. And then - euphemistically I use this expression - when these frailties go to coagulate in others, they no longer become fragility, but also occupation of the territory. It is precisely in this area that, following some changes that have been made to the decree-law in the field of the activity of the Commissions, it has been found the opportunity to have a decree of the Ministry of Education, University and Research, in agreement with both the Ministry of the Interior and that of the Justice, in identifying the areas of social exclusion. To believe that the whole of the Mezzogiorno can be identified as an area with educational poverty is an analysis of the historical, sociological and cultural order completely wrong, because there are excellences, within the South, that it would be very easy to identify them and it would also be a not short list to bring back to our attention. There are cultural excellences: I remember therefore some university realities, some school realities and - why not - some companies, that work in perfect harmony with the strict criteria not only of the economy, but also of respect for legality and that, unfortunately also in a sort of descriptive molasses where negativity always ends with the prevalence over positivity, it seems that they do not exist or are forgotten altogether. This is absolutely not true, because describing certain realities means describing their entirety, their complexity and even their particular characteristics, which many times are also positive. We, ladies and gentlemen, also collect a story: an ancient history, made of thought and sensibility, which is housed and characterized in our territories for that characteristic of its own that is not only the call of ancient finds, but of a mentality that still pervades our southern realities and that is made of reflection, thought and sensitivity. This sensitivity and this thought must obviously be diffused: a sensitivity and a thought that cannot belong - this is a passage that is particularly dear to me - to an elite, but must be widely represented in all the various social realities. If this sensitivity, this knowledge and this culture characterize all and not only some networks, some partial presences at the social level, a social democracy really is achieved. I was talking about the identification by the MIUR, the Ministry of the Interior and the justice of areas of social exclusion characterized by child education poverty and school dispersal, as well as a high rate of crime, on which we focused a moment ago, in order to carry out specific urgent educational interventions in some parts of the regions of the Mezzogiorno and that are aimed at combating child educational poverty and school dispersal. I believe that these procedures, which are achieved through partnerships with local authorities and entities in the third sector, as I mentioned earlier, represent a widespread culture that is not the heritage of a few, but requires co-responsibility, sharing and sharing by many other social realities. It is precisely in the sharing of various social realities that there is greater co-responsibility, so the educational dimension does not go pedagogically from top to bottom, but becomes a kind of widespread network where everyone has his responsibilities and represents a node of a virtuous network where everyone can and must participate. Only when culture is a widespread culture, where everyone feels involved, actor and non-appearance, can we really see the development of certain social realities, where responsibility, which is a cultural responsibility, becomes a social responsibility, in the context of the declination of democracy and full respect for those that are the founding articles of our Constitution, in a principle of equality. On this very subject, I would like to say that the educational dimension must play a greater role. When we talk about the principle of equality, we must not believe that we are going to grant a behavior that is the same for all, because even at the moment when we decline it so we end up denying the principle itself; to treat equal means to treat equally, where everyone, on a social level, represents that fundamental piece without which no one else exists in the social relationship. At this point, you will ask me why this reflection on the southern realities, which may seem a little out of touch with some of the economic and financial aspects that characterize this decree-law. Because it is precisely in the dimension of that socialization of the responsibility for cultural development that the democracy of the territories is marked. And in certain territories, when there is no co-responsibility in the training and educational processes, where all citizens participate because of their own functions and roles, you can degenerate and you will have nothing but the overpower of the strongest on the weakest. Because the culture that is declined with an acknowledgment and an accompaniment of the people who are in a situation of uncomfortableness means that one expresses that fundamental right where everyone is equal to the other. And in the dimension of equality is characterized by the dimension of sharing, of sharing and one feels truly involved in the dynamics at national level. There is also a particular aspect: already with the 2016 law of stability, a fund has been identified to combat child education poverty. In fact, an experimental fund has been established (in particular, in Article 1, paragraphs 392 to 395, where an experimental fund was set up precisely for the fight against child education poverty), fed by payments made by banking foundations and foundations is granted a tax credit equal to 75% of what was paid, until the available resources of 100 million euro for each of the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. This is a very important aspect, already outlined, as I said, in the law of stability of 2016, because it concretely realizes those founding principles that I allowed myself to subject to your attention. In view of these fundamental principles, there must also be a means of achieving them; an instrument which is, yes, limited to a precise sum, but which, however, is also encouraged by the tax credit that is 75%. This means that this incentive represents a strong possibility for many to participate in this purpose and for this purpose. There is, however, another article that seems to me to be in tune with this issue, although at a higher level of education. I am referring to Article 12, which regulates the standard cost per university student. This is an extremely sensitive issue, which the Government has done well with this decree-law to put to the attention of this Assembly, for a very simple reason. In fact, we must also take into account how intellectual migration at university level could lead - but, avoiding using conditionalism and instead using the indicative statement, I would say - to social deprivation and economic deprivation. Recognizing therefore standard costs also means recognizing a direct relationship between what is the financial economic aspect and what is the aspect of the expectation of the compulsory training by the students themselves. In short, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like here to use a slogan used in other areas and which I believe can be very useful in this debate and on this subject: on the educational aspect we need to think global and act local. Unfortunately, many times global thinking also leads to an act away from one's own lands. I believe that the aspect that characterizes the decree-law in question is not only to encourage economic development, but above all - and this is a particularly dear aspect to me - to ensure that there is no intellectual dispersion and a sort of cultural desertification, with the best minds moving away and leaving. If this were to happen, it would really mean the impoverishment and true destruction of our southern reality. For these reasons - I know that we are in the general discussion stage, but I am in advance of my position - I very much welcome the decree-law to our examination and thank you for the attention that has been given to me. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u35	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I understand that this decree-law contains urgent provisions for the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno and that it is only 11.10 a.m., but if we want to put our trust at noon, let us end this melina. In fact, the majority is making melin and we no longer know what to say in order to allow, probably, the presentation of a large amendment on which the question of trust will be placed. Madam President, let us then prepare this major amendment and, if so, suspend the sitting, given the lack of attention this House seems to give to the last speeches. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and ALA-SCLP Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u36	Senator Zuffada, apart from the fact that there seems to be no lack of presence in this House, given the general discussion... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] . The Presidency shall give the floor in accordance with the timetable set. The Senators of the Group For the Autonomies had never spoken and still have eleven minutes of time available; the Democratic Party, to which I will now give the floor, still has twenty-three minutes. We are therefore exactly within the time limits set by the quota; if you are not interested, you can in the meantime devote yourself to other activities. Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Can we ask for trust? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't think so. D'ANNA (ALA-Civic choice for the Liberal and Popular Constitution). Can we ask for trust?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u37	Senator Scilipoti, may I? ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me. SANTINI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Mezzogiorno Decree-Law represents a further chapter in the policies for supporting the growth of our country. The measure contains a series of measures aimed at promoting the economy and employment in the regions of the South, measures that develop along certain priority lines of action: the introduction of new incentives for young entrepreneurs and support for the birth and growth of enterprises; the identification of geographical areas, called Special Economic Areas, where facilitating the establishment of enterprises; the simplification and speeding up of certain administrative procedures, with particular regard to the implementation of investments and the operation of local authorities; support for training and employment and the reduction of situations of social distress. Before going into detail, I would like to point out that the measure is a step forward with regard to the legislative and administrative instruments for support for development aimed at ensuring that the delays, which still affect some of the country's realities, can be quickly overcome. The measures for young people and for the creation of new businesses are divided around two important interventions. The first, called "Resto al Sud" (Resto al Sud), provides incentives for young entrepreneurs aged between 18 and 35 who do not have their own resources to start a productive activity in the Mezzogiorno. This has historically had some impact, i.e. a loan of honour for young people. The measure consists of support for the creation of new entrepreneurial activities in agriculture, crafts, industry, fisheries, aquaculture, or in the provision of services, including tourism, which provides for a capital injection of up to EUR 50,000 in favour of the young entrepreneur, 35% of which is lost, to cover the investment of working capital, excluding design and personnel costs. In order to facilitate the process of setting up the company, the possibility of accompanying actions in the stages of the development of the entrepreneurial project by public and non-public bodies, duly accredited, is envisaged. The residual financing, in relation to the share of the grant, is in interest account, with a rate of zero, and paid through the banking system. Basically, the aim is to create many realities of development from the bottom up, but also to ensure continuity both from the financial point of view and from the point of view of assistance, so that the theme can then develop over time and not just remain an intervention for a few and short periods. The second chapter provides for an experimental procedure for the identification and valorization of the so-called uncultivated or abandoned lands and of real estate in a state of abandonment, that is, it acts on that part of the territory and the economy of the South where the most evident phenomena of degradation have been. The mechanism provides that there is the possibility of granting these areas not used or abandoned, for the duration of nine years renewable once, to young people in order to strengthen their employment and income opportunities, with an intervention of the municipality, with an action obviously consensual regarding the owners of these areas that have been abandoned, in order to ensure that there are precisely mechanisms of activation in this field and in order to be able, also through this way, to create from this point of view many other realities of growth and possibilities of valorization. Of course, this process sees the active role of the municipalities, which must introduce the criteria for evaluating projects and give priority to projects for re-use of buildings with the exclusion of land consumption, as well as the maintenance of all standards of architectural and landscape quality, without therefore supporting speculative hypotheses. The other issue concerning development is the establishment of the Special Economic Zones (SEZs), which is one of the most important measures of the measure. Geographically delimited areas are established, within which companies that establish favourable economic, financial and administrative conditions are recognised, precisely in order to promote their development. It is previewed in the articulated one that the ZES will concentrate in the harbour areas and the areas to them economically connected, connected to the European net of the transports (TEN-T), to which will be reserved additional fiscal facilities regarding the ordinary regime of the tax credit to the South, therefore strengthening the latter. The Regions that do not possess harbour areas (they have intervened in this sense in the Commission) can present application of institution of ZES in associative form, if contiguous, or however in economic association with harbour areas having these characteristics. The purpose of the Special Economic Zones is to experiment new forms of economic government of concentrated areas: we know how difficult it is to govern the territory from the economic point of view, having behind them not positive situations of the industrial areas and consortia, therefore it is an important innovation also from the point of view of the ability to put in relation to the development the administrative procedures within these areas, to coordinate them with a managing subject that represents the central administration, the Region, the relative harbour Authorities, therefore of the ability to construct of a management of the economic facts that integrates all the authorities that have competence in an integrated planning of development, with the objective to revive the competitiveness of the ports and the connected zones in the territory. 11:20 a.m. (Saints follow). To this end, additional tax facilities are provided, as we said for the ZES, compared to the ordinary tax credit scheme and, in particular, in addition to the investments of small and medium-sized enterprises, will be available investments up to 50 million euros, of sufficient size to attract also large international enterprises and of strategic importance for the marine transport and the handling of the ports of the Mezzogiorno. We know that the Mezzogiorno, in the new world and international economic geography, is a very important junction and so we try to equip it, through the special economic zones, to seize all the opportunities that they can find. Again with regard to development support, the debate in the Commission has allowed the introduction of an extension for the Mezzogiorno of the tax benefits of over-depreciation, which are extended until 30 September 2018 in such a way that there are greater effects on investment and therefore the possibility of transforming new interventions, according to the model "Industry 4.0" in technological and especially digital terms, according to the model "Industry 4.0" In addition to this, I would like to point out that in the areas of intervention there are measures of strong simplification aimed at speeding up public and private investment and at the implementation of interventions already planned in the areas of the Mezzogiorno, especially for the use of resources contained in the Development and Cohesion Fund through the Development Pacts and the institutional Development Contracts. An important part of the decree-law concerns the possibility to quickly realize the processes of relaunching the large corporate complexes in extraordinary administration, as is the case of the ILVA, and the possibility to think also of the environmental recovery of all the areas that historically - it is the case for example of Bagnoli - have had policies of strong impact on the territory and for which today it is necessary to think of a revision and a relaunch in different key. The measure also has a great deal of attention to the dimension of territorial cohesion. As we know, territorial cohesion is a dynamic concept, which is not given once and for all and which must keep the economic aspect together with the social aspect. Provisions are therefore introduced to promote the relocation of workers expelled from production processes in the Southern regions, a historically very complex issue to be addressed, to combat child education poverty and school dispersal in the Mezzogiorno and to deal with situations of particular degradation in some municipalities, where there is also a large concentration of foreign citizens, in relation to the degradation and the difficulties to deal with it. There are programmes for retraining and relocation of workers involved in the corporate and sectoral crises, for which additional resources are allocated that the National Agency (ANPAL) will then have to exploit to the South; specific funding is provided for projects aimed at combating educational poverty and school dispersal, as Mr Lucio Romano recalled a moment ago, in the territorial areas characterized by particularly high indices of school dispersal but also, and not a case, of high organized crime and degradation also at urban and territorial level. There is a selective procedure indicated by the MIUR to which institutions, institutional, associative, school and sports networks will be able to contribute to counter this phenomenon. Finally, there are measures, always in the area of cohesion, for better management of the territorial areas of some municipalities in which many foreign citizens are concentrated (we know that this is a phenomenon particularly present in the South). To this end it is expected to identify an Authority that promotes the optimal organization of services to foreign citizens already offered in the territories, a better synergy between the different levels of government and the strengthening of interventions aimed at restoring the degraded areas and integrating foreign citizens present there with extraordinary commissioners of the Government, who therefore have powers of programming and coordination of the activities cited and a budget of 150 million euros. Also in the field of cohesion and, therefore, of the important role of the university system, I note the introduction of an important intervention regarding the better functioning of the university system throughout the country, with particular attention to the Mezzogiorno, through the valorization of the mechanism of connection between the Fund for university financing and the standard cost per student, that is, giving parameters to universities to enhance their activity in relation to the size, the attractiveness and the possibility of having a greater or lesser number of students. The measure has also dealt with other measures of a more cross-cutting nature which have a particular effect in the southern air and I would like to mention two particularly sensitive subjects. As we know, the various measures of these years had remained open - and in part still is - the problem of setting up the former Provinces or, we would say today, Provinces, large-area entities and metropolitan cities, in order to deal with the issues - also in relation to their economic and administrative difficulties - linked to the development of the reform and the contribution they had to make to public finance. It is established with this measure and added to what has already been done by the recent Decree-Law No. 50 of 2017, the so-called maneuverina, a contribution of 100 million in favour of the Province and Metropolitan Cities, divided respectively into 72 and 28 million, so that these realities can deal mainly with the issue of the closure of budgets in 2017 (although in 2018 it will probably be necessary to intervene again), in order to ensure that the fundamental functions attributed to them can be carried out in the interests of citizens in a profitable and sufficient manner to the needs. We are thinking in particular of the issue of road transport, road maintenance, school construction; issues which concern the practical lives of citizens day by day. The second chapter addressed in this provision concerns the issue of emergencies. There is a full-bodied chapter concerning the earthquake of Central Italy, which includes a southern region such as Abruzzo. Several provisions such as the extension of the state of emergency to 28 February 2018 and the extension of the submission of documents accompanying applications for the renovation of buildings are also exempted from any tax and inheritance tax, access to the use of resources available to those who intervene and the relative accounting is facilitated; the use of administrative surpluses is allowed to improve the implementation of infrastructure standards, as well as the recovery of buildings and facilities intended for services for the population. The provisions on the removal of rubble are simplified, one of the delicate points dealt with in the past months that we hope will find a definitive impetus with this measure. The aim is to ensure with various measures the development of the school year 2017-2018 in the areas of Central Italy affected by the earthquake. Finally, with regard to the chapter of emergencies, the measure has received very topical interventions, which concern the fight and the prevention of the phenomenon of fires, linked to the history of these hot summers, addressing the issue of sanctions and the strengthening of the activities of prevention and contrast in the different regions. Finally, with regard to the sensitive issue of drought, which has unfortunately become another emergency in recent weeks, we are beginning to identify the first steps to deal with this phenomenon as well. In conclusion, we are in the presence of a measure that deals with new instruments and, in my opinion, very effective, the translation of development policies in the southern territories in order to ensure greater impetus and growth through the measures mentioned. It also does not forget to address and to make its own the emergencies related to the earthquake, as far as the affected territorial areas are concerned, and the new emergencies that accompany our season so troubled on the weather and environmental level. These measures will help the country, in particular the Mezzogiorno, to undertake this path of growth in a more convinced and effective way in the interest of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u39	Mr President, it is quite unusual for the last member to speak to be an opposition senator, but it is quite unusual because the debate is dragging and so it is good for the majority to add some stock to the debate, because it is clear that the technical report has not arrived. So you add broth, but if you'll excuse me, since I have to listen to it, I'll serve it a little salty. You must be aware that what you are doing here is a worn-out ritual, but not in the sense of a bearer of experience, but in the sense of weariness: the decree-law arrives in Parliament, many fine words, imposition of trust and approval of it by majority shots. Mr President, this will shortly also happen with this decree-law, which deals improperly, as it is written in the title, with urgent provisions for the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno, because here - as I will show you shortly - there is everything. Moreover, paraphrasing what Senator Santini said, this happens with old methods and methods absolutely tested in their clientelarity, so in a very specific way and with works and destinations of resources that are far from aimed at growth and economic development, but only "to make the brands" as is used in politics. Returning to us, President Gasparri, you listed in your speech some characteristics of this decree-law and correctly indicated, in Article 2, the insertion of a rule that has nothing to do with the theme, but that is convenient. It is the usual mechanism: in the decree you put in a bit of everything, the meatloaf is then armored with confidence and then even the measures that would not pass with the obvious vote are passed with the vote of confidence. In this article an initiative has also been included concerning the formation of consortia, which from time to time is transferred from one measure to another: once removed because it is not congruent with the matter, once because it is really and politically indigestible, until you have arrived to insert it in this decree-law. It's a brand made in Coldiretti. Confagricoltura has torn her clothes, but also in this case, in the usual ballet between the associations of category, Coldiretti first gets to 90 degrees, when the constitutional referendum arrives, to support Renzi and the Government (because Renzi and the Government must support and woe not to be pro-government), then, when Renzi (which continues to be the Government) propina the CETA (Comprehensive economic and trade agreement), here is that the clothes are torn and protests that this ruins agriculture, our beautiful agriculture that is traded for an international agreement that has nothing to do with the protection and development of Italian agriculture. Then, of course, four-quarters (like the thieves of Pisa) agreed that the settlement of the debts of the consortia should also be included here. We are a little fed up with this way of conceiving politics. If in these hours the MPs of the Democratic Party are giving so much public show on television to take the merits, competing with the 5 Star Movement, of the abolition of the vitalities of politicians, saying that this is how we recover the credibility of politics, my fellow senators, I tell you something very simple: the credibility of politics is earned by the work and the seriousness of the laws. If there is no seriousness in the laws and if the provisions of the law are anything else than what is written in their title, there is no abolition of vitality that holds: politics is destined to be ever further away than people. However, you are deceiving yourself of being able to recover consent by including "trademark provisions" such as the one under consideration. Mr President, allow me then to read quickly the title of the measure and the headings of the individual articles which make up it. Article 1 is addressed to: Misura in favor of young entrepreneurs in the Mezzogiorno called "Resto al Sud," goodness of God, this is consistent with the title of the decree-law. Article 2 is titled: "Measures and financial interventions in favour of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture and promotion of the supply chains of the Mezzogiorno". Again, we are on the right track, because it is consistent with the title of the Decree-Law. Article 3 is classified as: 'Bank of abandoned or uncultivated land and measures for the valorization of unused goods', but here we are beginning to be a little more generic. However, it is fantastic what we read in Article 4, which is classified "Institute of special economic zones - ZES". Mr President, in this same branch of Parliament, on 8 April 2014 a motion was adopted, virtually unanimously, concerning the establishment of the ZES in the border areas between Italy and other European countries and, in this case, the area of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola, the province of Varese, Como and the whole eastern part of our territory that it gives towards Istria and Slovenia. In this motion, the Government was asked - through a commitment made in this House - to develop a system like the ZES. From that moment three years have passed and in this period of time also the bills deposited and the proposals of law approved by the individual Regions have always been let die. In recent days I have spent to ask that within the measure under consideration the ZES be inserted also for the other areas of Italy that have lack of competitiveness, especially for those that, having the ability to pull the rest of the country, are running away, because, in the competition with the foreign countries of border, the different tax systems are obviously putting us on our knees. Faced with this, it is not considered that the country - which so often defines a country that must be united from North to South - is instead disaggregated and disunited precisely by the tax and financial disparities and difficulties that have different parts of the country to compete. So we do not come to find unitary solutions, but with the measure under consideration you are simply stepping your hand, for the umpteenth time, on the fact that Italy is divided and is different. Even, compared to the predicate of the title, paradoxically, go and create additional elements of division in the country, because for someone the rules are worth more, for someone they are worth less and for someone else even less. Therefore, those who have difficulty in competing find themselves not having the tools that would allow them to restart, while those who have a legitimate proposal but who have no driving capacity (such as the creation of special economic zones in the border areas of Lombardy, Friuli-Venezia Giulia or other regions of Italy neighbouring other European countries) are found with a handful of flies, with nothing, not being considered. I am sorry to have listened to some of my fellow Members once again complaining about the forgotten South. The only thing that should be complained about here is the inability of politics, which in the South has wasted huge resources that have been made available over the years without benefiting neither the economy nor the citizens of the South, but only the mafias and, unfortunately, the usual "pimps" who are in the public administration and who feed heavily on public funding. Mr President, I am very dismayed to read in the measure before us again about the funds available for the earthquake areas, but nothing has changed substantially in these areas. They are inserted, with an amendment approved in the referent that introduces article 16-a, of the funds to remove the rubble, indicating - I read in the dossier of the Services Chamber Studies and Senate of the disconcerting things - that the amending proposal refers to the aim to face the burdens deriving from the continuation of the activities of assistance in the extension of the phase of first emergency. It's been almost a year: aren't you ashamed to call it the first emergency phase? It's been almost a year! If I use a few more minutes, Mr President, it is not bad, because it is certainly also useful for us to know these things. In here it is called the first emergency a situation that has been going on for a year. In Amatrice, Accumoli and other earthquake-stricken countries the rubble is still there and people are not yet in the countries. The tapes are placed now, nine months apart. He had a son at this time. The unevenness of the measure is the real scandal, because it is passed from the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) to the matter of tuna with the quantities destined for Italy or to legislative interventions concerning the ILVA or the formation of the school classes. These are right and appropriate issues, but they had to and could be included in specific measures (e.g. for earthquake zones). If even today we have to intervene with emergency decrees-laws, putting in unevenly interventions that should concern the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno, it is because the government's policy is ragazzonata and has no programming. The decree-law is very disappointing because it makes available resources that, on the false line of what happened in the past, do not give certainty of economic recovery for the Mezzogiorno and, above all, do not dismantle structured systems of bad government that have demonstrated with the facts of wasting the resources made available. I want to see the administrators who have wasted their resources in the past thrown out; then the resources made available for the future will have a chance to create economy; otherwise they only give themselves to do low-level politics without any possibility of development and growth for the citizens of southern Italy. [[Applause from Senators Calderoli and Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u40	The general debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Presidency, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, declares that paragraph 1 of amendment 9.0.1100, approved by the Commission in the referent, is not available, even in accordance with the criteria established by the constitutional jurisprudence for the examination of the draft law for the conversion of decrees-laws. I call the rapporteur, Senator Vicari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u41	Mr President, before I start my speech, I would like to ask you a very warm invitation, which comes mainly from colleagues, to try to raise the temperature in this House because the cold below is truly unbearable and unsustainable. [[Applause.]] It's almost an "attack" on us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u42	Go on, you'll be notified to the relevant offices. You take care of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u43	Mr Vicari, rapporteur. President. - Thank you very much and I trust you very much in your attention. I believe that the debate that took place yesterday afternoon and this morning has been very fruitful and thorough. It is clear that there are two different points of view on how to intervene on the Mezzogiorno. I also believe that generous statements have been made about an attempt to plan interventions and measures linked to the South. The measure has been loudly called for by several political parties, by colleagues of majority and opposition in recent years, as I said yesterday. It is clear that the measure does not want to have the ambition to be the panacea of all evils or we do not think that through this measure all the problems related to the Mezzogiorno can be solved, but it undoubtedly puts hand and touches some issues. As the debate in the Commission shows, efforts are being made to clarify and use programming, which has not been taken into account since the last interventions, of certain resources which, in different cases, could result in rain interventions not aimed at more structured and networked measures. Article 1 is not a great trade mark for the South, as has been said in this House. It is well known that the Mezzogiorno has geographical and territorial characteristics that represent a great opportunity for development for the whole country and for the whole sector of which our GDP can benefit, first of all in terms of tourism and agriculture. These two elements have been strongly considered and, through numerous amendments from the different groups, have been included among the aims of the measures that tend to give a boost to the young people of our territory, and the Mezzogiorno in particular, aged between eighteen and thirty-five years, looking within their cultural and professional activities and competences. Rather than chasing the chimera of a public job, which with great difficulty will be able to solve the demand for employment that exists especially in the Mezzogiorno, these young people are wondering whether they have professional skills and desire for technological innovation in these areas where certainly the last mile compared to some offers in the Mezzogiorno must be achieved. As was initially done by the Decree-Law and then with the changes introduced by the work in the Commission, it is thought to use these tools by planning interventions aimed primarily at creating employment, also in the form of cooperative, thus also giving work to other young people who can complete that tourist offer (insisting in considering this sector), which objectively in the Mezzogiorno today we find at spot level. For example, we certainly find these realities in Puglia, because they give a complementary offer to the services that that territory already offers; we find them in Sicily, where they are linked to some interventions also as a system of a tourist offer that looks to the parks. Until now, the Government and the State have not been able to invest culturally and professionally in these sectors, because the State needs them and, as a public thing, is unable to offer an answer to this question. It is very confident that the private initiative can take on the individual offers existing in receptive, bathing and environmental tourism, to put them into system and offer services also through mobile technology, which is widely used by young people. Today, in fact, through the furniture you manage all your life and also programming, the tourist presences of a territory. However, there is no overall coordination of the individual commercial interventions that some good young entrepreneur can offer to his own land. I believe that this is a great opportunity to find employment and to give that extra boost that the Mezzogiorno requires compared to what it potentially knows how to offer as a territorial characteristic that God has given him. However, there is a lack of services that make systems between them. In this sense we also look to the world of agriculture where, as you certainly know, thanks to individual cases of people of good will, shared gardens have been activated in large cities. Today there is a strong need in our country to have a productive capacity of the goods we consume daily; so many women have organized themselves using land that exists in the city in order to be able to cultivate in their own, for family use, the shared garden. Why then, rather than resorting to individual cases of this nature, should we, as Parliament and as Government, not have the objective of giving a strong and concrete response to this need of the citizens and of the Italian population? Certainly the answer can be to create a database of land, both public and private, that can be made available to those who want to find employment in our territory, offering a higher quality of production and undoubtedly more competitive compared to that of the countries of North Africa and that has the typical characteristics of Made in Italy, that is, exclusively Italian products. In this way it will be possible not only to produce employment, and therefore income, but also to remove from abandonment, carelessness or abusive employment private land (I think few) and public (very many), which can instead be put to income, with an end to employment and above all social. The attempt made with the measures contained in this decree-law is exactly this. I would not feel objectively, with great serenity of mind, to give a preliminary judgment on the goodness of this legislation or its inefficiency. It was an idea, that we thought and planned serenely and objectively; let's give ourselves the opportunity to verify it, because I am sure that, compared to what is happening in different cities of our country, we can in this way give a great response, based on a great value today a bit neglected. Turning from one subject to another, without following the order of the article, I would like to respond to so many comments that have been made on Article 12, namely the introduction of standard costs within the university. It is true that there was - President Tonini will remember - a "red alarm" on the part of the speakers to understand if the introduction of this measure could actually create damage or disadvantages to some universities in our country. After some insights, integrations and interlocutions, which we also had with the Ministry of Education, thanks to the amendments tabled by some colleagues (I would like to remind and thank in this House in particular Senator Tocci and Senator Ferrara), we went to give a concrete answer to these concerns, certainly looking, on the one hand, at the students off course and, on the other, showing a particular attention to the consequences that the equalization component could have to the detriment of some universities in the South. With some insights and with these amendments we have definitively avoided the possibility of this danger. In particular, I would like to remind you that, overall, the component of the standard cost of university, as provided for in Decree-Law No 91 of 2017, may be added a component equal to a maximum of 10 percent of the average national standard cost. This in order to facilitate some universities in the South, as in particular, that of Reggio Calabria, which has great difficulty in picking up students and is one of the last of the list from the point of view of the number of registrations. This will allow the universities to move on a path of better sustainability of their budgets, considering that the universities with the budgetary situations closest to the critical level are located in the Regions of the Mezzogiorno and that the equalization component will have effects especially on these institutions (as well as for the universities of other areas of the Country), that they encounter objective obstacles in the registrations of the students is for reasons related to the lack of infrastructures of connection, that is a data absolutely not to be overlooked, both for the ability of the relationship between staff expenses, expenses for total indebtedness and economic and financial sustainability. Also on this aspect there was not an attitude - at least as far as I am concerned - from yes-man, but a rather understanding and critical attitude in understanding the effects, as well as absolutely positive and proactive for the solutions adopted. A theme that I hope will have the attention it deserves and that can also be extended to other cities (I think of Rome and Milan), is the one introduced by article 16-a, concerning the question that we have asked ourselves on how to preserve and protect the great flow of tourism that is already - fortunately - "invading" our territories and that will focus mainly on two cities, having been declared capital of Italian culture and "capital of European culture." Objectively, if we want to maintain the contribution that tourism is making to national GDP (4.2%), we need to ask ourselves how to maintain this level and how to give serenity and security, not only to the citizens who live in our cities and historic centers, which is an absolutely obvious and automatic fact, but also to all tourists who from all over the world in 2018 and 2019 will "invade" our nation and in particular Palermo and Matera. We must try not to have a crocodile attitude, that is to cry later because we have not been able to think in useful times how to make as much effort as possible to ensure safety in these cities. What is provided for in Article 16 is a somewhat experimental beginning - let me use this term - because certainly EUR 4 million is not sufficient to carry out interventions in other cities too, but they can undoubtedly begin to demonstrate to the whole world - which no one has done on the front of the preventive fight against terrorism - that they can strengthen security in historic centres, with the maximum of technology, tracing above all those means that - as I recalled yesterday - in Nice, but not only, have caused hundreds of deaths. This is a beginning that concerns the cities of Palermo and Matera, but my hope is that we can share and expand this kind of initiative to the metropolitan cities of the whole nation, to continue to implement an offer that our country, especially from the point of view of cultural heritage, provides to the whole world. I would like to abstain from some remarks, including criticisms, made in this House about the inadequacy of the content expected in this decree-law. I must say, however, that, from our point of view, those measures are sufficient to initiate a reversal of trend and also of attitude towards the recognition of the needs of the Mezzogiorno of our country and can constitute a positive and useful start in order to continue on this path. This is not an intervention to put an end to the attention to the Mezzogiorno, but it is the second decree-law that places the needs of the Mezzogiorno to the attention of the national political class, which will certainly have to be completed and implemented with those infrastructures that are then the basis of any development capacity. I conclude by not underestimating what has been planned with the Special Economic Zones because they complete a reform, which has been done, on the organization of the ports of our Country. There too, there is a cultural problem. Up to this moment, in fact, every single port has led a battle, not so much with another area of Europe or with another area of our Country, but with neighboring ports or, perhaps, with ports of the same Region. That must not be the attitude. The attitude must instead be to understand that the offer of harbour and interportuali services must be competitive looking elsewhere. The Mediterranean platform and the southern port systems of our country must be competitive with Rotterdam, for example; that is, they must have the ability to attract those flows that pass from the Mediterranean and prefer to enter Europe through the North and then penetrate south mainly through the railways. Beware of what is happening with the Silk Road and the completion of the ferrata crossing that from the east, through Russia, will penetrate in Europe and in our country, because this is what we must know how to look in the long term: how to counter in the next ten years a competition coming from the Chinese world and from the eastern part of Europe. Undoubtedly, if we will not be able to equip ourselves, not only as Europe but also as Italy, having a great opportunity to be the platform of the Mediterranean, we and our products will be swept away by an ability to penetrate and transport that becomes stronger and stronger in other parts of the world, while we, instead, we, thinking of making war with our neighbor, not seeing, instead, that the competition is elsewhere and not at home. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u44	Mr President, my colleague, Mrs Vicari, has made a great deal of use of the issues of substance which have been represented by the various Members during the debate, but there are two aspects on which I would like to speak quickly, given the intense and particularly involved debate that has taken place. I am referring first of all to an accusation made by several Members of this House that the measure in question is not concrete, which would be a kind of empty box. Colleagues, I understand the role played by the parties in politics and in the debate that takes place in this House in judging a measure, perhaps having to support antithetical positions compared to those of the Government and those of those who support it, but - frankly - I find it really difficult to think that an accusation of this nature is justified. This is a reflection that I consider absolutely unfounded, ingenious and wrong because it does not understand the contents. I don't want to waste my time, and I'm just gonna stick to the headlines, and then I'm gonna take a more general look at it. The measure contains a measure to support entrepreneurship, called for by my colleague, Mr Vicari, aimed mainly at young people in the Mezzogiorno, who want to help the birth and growth of 100,000 new businesses. This measure has been allocated EUR 1,300 million for the first few years. It seems to me that this is a concrete measure which, between two and three months or before the end of the year, will be payable and usable by the young people of the Mezzogiorno. We have enriched this intervention by intervening on the operating modalities: we have increased the ceiling to each individual investor and increased the reference sectors. It seems to me to be a very concrete, usable and immediate measure. One of the most significant measures is the one on the special economic zones, which has come back a lot in the debate and which my colleague, Mrs Vicari, also referred to. EUR 200 million in the coming years in the form of incentives, tax credits and so on. Is this probably insufficient resources? I do not know, we will see it in the coming months and years, when the measure will explain its ability to involve new companies in terms of attractiveness and support to the investments of companies that already insist in the areas that will then be identified in order to compose the Special Economic Zones (SEZs). Long live God, there is this debate on resources - EUR 200 million - which is few, but it will be discussed if the measure were to "pull" (as it is said in the jargon), that is to say to be really attractive for new businesses. As already foreseen in the decree-law adopted by the Government, the provision establishes that you can support investments up to 50 million euros. So we are talking about investments aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large companies of major size. If this measure works, who will stop the government and Parliament from integrating it and supporting it further in the coming months and years? In the meantime, as I said yesterday in the presentation of the report, we understand the sense of newness. The theme of the ZES is very much present in the southernist debate of recent years both from a political, institutional and also academic point of view. Today we are faced with a keystone and an important appointment. This standard defines a legislative framework that lacked and defines the contours of an instrument that was much awaited and invoked and that today, at last, becomes a sure norm for investors, but also for the institutions that will have to define and accompany its governance and development. In addition, some resources are also committed, which may be insufficient, but which are there in the meantime. Let me say, therefore, that this is another important, significant and concrete measure in the direction of the development of the Mezzogiorno. Other measures, perhaps, are even more significant, from that on the Provinces to those related to the subject of the earthquake, first recalled, which saw an extraordinary commitment of the Government Gentiloni Silveri in recent months, but also of the previous Renzi Government. These are supplementary measures compared to what has already been done because, due to the scale of the emergency that the country system is facing, the rules needed to be subjected to a kind of cutting and to be integrated. And we have done so with simplification rules and rules that define and make available additional resources. Ninety million is allocated to the ILVA group, linked to environmental rehabilitation and reclamation; 90 million is allocated to the regions of the Mezzogiorno, to be used for the modernization and safety of judicial construction. Again, I quote the use bound to the modernization of the road network of the Calabria Region by reinvesting the residues from Salerno-Reggio Calabria (consistent figures, from 400 million up). All these measures seem absolutely to me, in some respects, even too concrete compared to a debate that on the subject of the Mezzogiorno too often, in public opinion, but also here in Parliament, oscillates between attitudes of an almost ideological and academic nature, so vague that they are inconsistent, and the almost desperate research of the individual, minute interventions. You will allow me to say that this is a measure that takes the sense of a strategy, but it declines it and makes it concrete with absolutely identifiable and concrete measures. This is the first reflection that I wish to give and, really quietly, I would like to remove from our debate the issue of inconsistency, the absence of concreteness and the empty box. On the contrary, I believe that in some respects it is an even too full box, in which we have been able to include measures which will undoubtedly have to be tested, but which I believe are ascribed to a shared strategy at national level. The second point is that an old topic has also come back in this debate: there are too many or too few resources. We also said this yesterday, during our introduction: from the southern, from people engaged in institutions, but who fully live the theme of the potential of an important area of the country, but also the limits that in the course of ancient and recent history it has expressed, we have some clear things. First of all, the resources for the Mezzogiorno have not been lacking in recent years, and I would like to say decades. It is not true, therefore, that the resources have not been there, but it is true that many of them, which over the course of long years of attention to the Mezzogiorno have been destined to that part of the country, have often been used not at best, but in a dispersive and ineffective way, not producing that qualitative leap in local development useful to shorten the gap with the rest of the country. That is absolutely true. But it is equally true that, over the last few months or years, but in the last twenty years, often - and in this sense the mark of the Government on duty may have made little difference - the funds for the Mezzogiorno have been used as a sort of ATM. I would like to call on the first governments of the so-called Second Republic - I do not want to call neither Presidents of the Council nor Ministers of the economy who have particularly committed themselves - who have used those resources often as ATMs for other choices. I really wish that at this point in the history of our country and the Mezzogiorno this debate was left behind, which is in some respects idle, and both are true. I shall conclude by adding, although I imagine that Minister De Vincenti will be talking about it, that what has been done over the last two years is back: the idea of a targeted finalization of the use of public, Community and national resources, which are not few, devoting them to interventions that can allow us to make a qualitative leap, to achieve an added value in the capacity to modernise infrastructure, both physical and social. The Mezzogiorno, in fact, needs a higher physical and social infrastructure, more modern and more intense, that helps the system of enterprises, and the local communities, the civil, industrial, manufacturing and also LA social and cultural growth of that part of the country. This cannot, however, be accompanied by a governance that builds on the mistakes of past years. We have passed for years in which a very strong centralization has excluded local communities from the use of resources and from their destination to years in which there was a sort of "assemblerism," for which everyone became protagonists of the consultation. Both of them proved to be wrong. Today we are in the presence of another experimentation, a unified but integrated governance between national government, regions and local communities. This is the spirit of the so-called Masterplan. This is the spirit of the so-called pacts for the South signed by all the Regions of the Mezzogiorno and the metropolitan cities: that is to put together the various institutional levels, to contribute to the better finalization of the resources and to identify together the priorities in the investments that can be financed. It seems to me that this experiment, which is already giving the first important results, builds on the mistakes and extremes of the past decades and I can open a new path. I think, subtlely, that the decree-law in question is ascribed to this strategy, to such a vision, with concrete measures but with a line for which it is necessary to value even more and fully the potentialities of that part of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u45	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the members of the Budget Committee and also the senators of the other Commissions who have tabled amendments to the draft law under discussion, all worthy of consideration and attention on the subject, which have allowed a fruitful debate which, in the end, has led to an overall improvement of the text proposed by the Government in important parts. Therefore, my sincere thanks to all the members of the Commission and to the senators who have spoken in today's debate. In particular - I would like to stress this - I thank the senators of the opposition because, without taking away anything from the disagreement that can of course exist between us - and on some of the speeches on my part certainly there is - I think it was very important and very positive that all the opposition groups, both in the Commission and today in this House, have made the choice to discuss the measure on the substance, without any possible obstructive practice, but entering into the problems and confronting each other. I also believe that this has led - and this is no coincidence - to the fact that several amendments from opposition senators could be accepted and entered fully into the measure. A special thanks goes to the rapporteurs, Senator Simona Vicari and Senator Salvatore Tomaselli, who took care of the work in the Commission on the amendments with great competence and attention, and to the President of the Budget Commission, Giorgio Tonini, who led our work with great wisdom and, at the same time, with firmness and openness, so that the debate could deepen on the substance of the measure. Finally, an external thank you to the Senate goes to the unified Conference and to the indications that in that forum from Regions, Provinces and Municipalities came, and that in part were taken up in the debate of the Commission, finding hospitality in amendments that were then approved. I believe that there has been a serious contribution from the Regions and the local self-governments that has marked, together with the debate carried out these days, the attention of all the institutions to the measure and, beyond it, to the theme that it proposed to the attention of the institutions and political forces, that is, the awareness of the centrality of the recovery of the Mezzogiorno for that of the whole of our country, the centrality of the future of the Mezzogiorno for that of united Italy. I will not go into the merits of the individual aspects of the measure, which the rapporteurs have already explained a great deal, nor will I go into the merits of answers on individual points raised in the debate, because the Senators Vicari and Tomaselli have already addressed the issue and I do not need to return to it, recognizing me widely in their reflections. I will therefore only go over the measure in its main lines. The first part of the measure, i.e. the first three articles, has a strong meaning towards one of the most important and difficult themes that the Mezzogiorno of Italy lives: the future of young people. The measure addresses this issue on the investment side of young people themselves, on their capacities, making available to those who wish to undertake a business both a capital endowment, as provided for in the measure "Resto al Sud" of Articles 1 and 2, and the possibility of using and enhancing abandoned or uncultivated land. I would point out to some senators who have spoken on this point that this is a capital endowment which cannot, therefore, be used to self-pay an income. In other words, it moves in the logic of offering young people in the Mezzogiorno the opportunity to invest and do business, taking their destiny into their own hands. And from this point of view I would stress that we are following an approach that is the opposite of that of citizenship income, because it is precisely an investment in the ability of young people to take their own destiny and make their own way. The improvements made in the Commission have been useful, both because the contribution to the individual has risen to 50 000, and because it has been right to clarify - even if it was already in the original text - that tourism is a full part of the activities that are recognised as part of "Resto al Sud" and also to include the fisheries sector within them. Article 3 refers to interventions aimed at making available to young people abandoned and uncultivated lands: here too an important step has been taken, which refers to experiences - as has been mentioned in some interventions - that have been initiated in some regions, and gives young people in the Mezzogiorno an opportunity to make production and enterprise. (at 12:27 a.m.) (De Vincenti, Minister for Territorial Cohesion and the Mezzogiorno). Then there is a second block of the provision that regards the attraction of meaningful investments on some harbour areas of the Mezzogiorno that have great potentialities, above all for the new centrality that the Mediterranean is acquiring in the within of the international traffics after the opening of the second branch of the Suez Canal. Who better than the ports of the Mezzogiorno can be the reference point of the new trade flows? The special economic zones are thought of in this key: attraction of important investments in logistics, but also in the manufacturing, on the key ports of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. In this respect too, some significant improvements in the Commission's work have made it possible to clarify the scope within which the Special Economic Zones can be set up and the regions that will be fully involved in this regard. A third block of the measure concerns simplification, which essentially concerns process governance and the possibility of strengthening and accelerating investment processes. We have introduced rules that will speed up payments, some of which have already started, on the Development and Cohesion Fund within the South Pacts. The regions have already started these activities and I remember that, within the Pacts for the South, there are already works in progress, and therefore open yards, for 6 billion euros, as well as notices and plans in execution for another 15 billion euros. The machine is in motion and Article 6 allows you to further accelerate this process. Then there is the institutional contract of development, that we have experienced in Taranto on the basis of a norm introduced previously from Parliament, that it is giving very important fruits: of 882 million euros allocated for the rebirth of Taranto on the side of the urban regeneration, the environmental recovery and the development of the logistics and infrastructures, beyond the half has already been employed for intense intense activities. At this point we thought that this instrument could also serve in other situations and we urge the Regions and local authorities to apply to organize complex interventions on their territory through this type of instrumentation, which sees a strong governance between Government, Region, Municipality, local authorities and economic, productive and social realities of the territory. The fourth block of interventions concerns certain specific situations that require an instrumentation that, with the decree-law under consideration, has been made available. On this fairly broad part, which has been discussed a great deal by the rapporteurs and the senators who have spoken, I would just like to highlight three points. First of all, I would like to highlight the programmes entrusted to the National Agency for Active Labour Policies, for the retraining and relocation of workers from companies in crisis in the areas of greatest industrial suffering in the Mezzogiorno. Secondly, I would like to point out Article 11, which is very important, on the subject of educational poverty, which includes projects that are proposed by the territory, by educational institutions, by local authorities in the territory and coordinated by the Ministry of Education, University and Research to address the issue of educational poverty and school leaving, in areas marked by particular suffering and situations of social exclusion. With the measure under consideration, this theme becomes a key element for the National School Operational Programme, funded by the European Funds 2014-2020. I would like to refer briefly to Article 12 on the ordinary funding fund for universities, which, as has been pointed out in several speeches, deals with a problem that has arisen following a decision of the Constitutional Court, allows universities to rely on the university funding fund, resolving the problem posed by the Constitutional Court itself and contains some important steps within it, which allow better support for universities that are located in territories with lower per capita income and, therefore, less contributory capacity or with difficulties on the accessibility side. The issue of per capita income and accessibility does not concern the Mezzogiorno alone. Of course, it is a significant matter of the Mezzogiorno, and I believe that it is going in the right direction, so that the strict use of resources and rewards, and the efficiency of universities, are accompanied by a proper equalization mechanism. Finally, some of the amendments introduced are of particular significance. It has already been pointed out by the rapporteurs and by some of the speakers that the amendments on areas affected by seismic events are important: I think it was right to accept them and to have included in these amendments the elimination of the inheritance tax on houses destroyed or inaccessible because of the earthquake and the strengthening of emergency situations and reconstruction. Then a number of important amendments were adopted on the infrastructure front. I remember, in particular, the financing of the safety works of the A24 and A25 motorway, the Park Road, in Abruzzo, after the seismic events and the re-destination to the road in Calabria of the expenditure savings made with the acceleration that we gave to the completion of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria that - as you know - since 22 December last is complete to four lanes from Salerno to Reggio Calabria. In making this acceleration we have also achieved significant savings in spending. With the amendment adopted in the Commission, we have been able to restore them to viability in Calabria. I would like to stress the amendment on the Provinces, which has certainly also had an important significance for Provinces and Metropolitan Cities in the Mezzogiorno. Not surprisingly, the main pressure in that direction came from them. Finally, I would like to recall the amendment which introduced certain rules, in particular, on combating the extortion practices underlying some of the phenomena that have led to the rise of forest fires and which, unfortunately, have concerned, in particular, some regions of our Mezzogiorno. I believe that cutting the nails to speculators and extortors is a fundamental step and it was right to table and approve this amendment. The measure under consideration is part of an overall line that the Silveri Gentiloni Government is pursuing in continuity with the Renzi Government. This line has already seen a first decree-law dedicated to problems affecting the Mezzogiorno. I refer to Decree-Law No 243 of 2016, which dealt with certain emergency situations in the Mezzogiorno. I think of Taranto, the agency for the transhipment that concerns Taranto and Gioia Tauro and the question of the purifiers and so on. Within Decree-Law No 243 of 2016 we introduced two very important rules. The first concerns the strengthening of the tax credit for the investments in the Mezzogiorno that today, after having previewed with this decree-law "Resto al Sud" and "Zone economici speciali", means to attract to the Mezzogiorno the enterprises and to strengthen the southern enterprises that invest; to attract great investments in the special economic zones around the key ports of the Mezzogiorno and to invest on our young ones with "Resto al Sud". The other rule that we introduced with Decree-Law 243 concerns the allocation of ordinary budgetary resources in capital account, which must follow a criterion of equal distribution on the territory, in particular on the basis of the resident population, so that the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds are effectively additional and help to bridge the gap between the South and the Centre-North. And we are about to launch in the next few days the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers implementing that norm of decree-law n. 243 of 2016. These two decree-laws fit into a new overall design, a new southernist policy that we started with the Masterplan of which they are part and which saw a strong implementation also and first of all with the so-called Pacts for the South, a new way of setting up interventions in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. First of all, there is a comparison between the Government and the local institutions, the Region, the metropolitan cities, the municipalities and the mayors. The priorities of the local communities are highlighted; national, European and local resources are allocated to the whole; the priorities are finalized; the instruments of intervention and mutual responsibilities are defined in a strong relationship of interaction between central government and regions, metropolitan cities and municipalities of the Mezzogiorno. I remember that the pacts are already in place and in this sense I mentioned the figures of the open yards and the actions activated. It was then the duty of the Government to incorporate those pacts into a unified plan for the Southern regions and for the connection between them and the Centre-North. I think of great infrastructural investments, like that on the high railway speed on the Naples-Bari-Taranto route; the Tyrrhenian road axis to the Adriatic one, to the Ionic one. I am thinking of investments for the rehabilitation and enhancement of the environment and cultural heritage, a great resource of the Mezzogiorno of Italy that must be valued, as is already being done at the Centre-North. We want this to happen also in the Mezzogiorno, which must make the most of its extraordinary artistic and cultural wealth. Finally, there is industrial policy, with development contracts for the recovery of industrial areas in crisis. This is the general design that gives the fabric within which the individual pacts are then placed. The sense of the new southernist policy is a resumption of the political and institutional responsibility of the central State together with the Regions and the Municipalities towards the citizens, in support of the capacities that are present in the Mezzogiorno and that must be valued: the institutions at the service of the capacities that exist in the Mezzogiorno. This is linked to a way in which today we look at the southern question, which is certainly very different from that of more than a century ago that - as we know - was called in this way by Pasquale Villari in 1878 and then saw a series of studies and interventions, the most important of which was certainly the extraordinary intervention through the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno. Today's South is very different from that of then, but a southern issue still arises in the gap existing in the conditions of income and living of the citizens of the South compared to those of the Centre-North; gap that has been widening until 2014 and that only in 2015-2016 with the new southernist policy began, albeit still to a limited extent, to narrow, as the data of ISTAT and SVIMEZ recently published show. 2015 and 2016 have seen the Mezzogiorno grow in terms of GDP, employment and exports, more than the Centre-North. It is not yet enough; there is still much to be done, but it is a sign of vitality in the production fabric of the Mezzogiorno. And so we must be aware of the criticalities, problems and points of suffering in the Mezzogiorno: young people; the unemployment rate; the presence of so-called NEETs (children who do not study and do not work), higher in the Mezzogiorno than in the Centre-North; the situations of corporate crisis that we have experienced and are still living in some areas of the Mezzogiorno; the situations of the outskirts of the cities of the Mezzogiorno. They are all situations that require great attention and awareness of the points of suffering. At the same time, however, we know that today's Mezzogiorno is also characterized by a productive fabric that possesses excellences that compete on the international markets in cutting-edge technological sectors; it is characterized by young people who have acquired important skills, and that we must make sure that they use according to the South, so that they can build their own living plan in the Mezzogiorno, that is, in their land, in terms of work and family. We know that there is an awakening of civil society, which we actually see as important as business organisations through cooperatives, especially cooperatives of young people, and "Resto al Sud" is inspired by these experiences born in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. What, then, is the task of the institutions today, in the face of the southern question as it stands, with its present suffering and potential? The task of the institutions is to support these capacities that exist in the Mezzogiorno, so that the citizens of the Mezzogiorno become protagonists of their rebirth. We no longer need a programming from above, as with the extraordinary intervention, but a programming comparison, as with the pacts for the South and the Masterplan. There must no longer be a loss of political responsibility, as in the twenty years that have led to the reopening of the gap, but an assumption of full political responsibility by the central government, the regions and the local institutions, to support the citizens of the Mezzogiorno in being protagonists of their destiny, knowing that in this way they will be protagonists of a united Italy, which finds the way of recovery and rebirth. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u47	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2860, of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 20 June 2017, which transposes the amendments proposed by the Commission, with the exception of the one that was declared impossible, and, with reference to the additional article in Article 11 concerning urgent measures in the field of judicial construction in the regions of the Mezzogiorno, provides for the extension of its financing until 2025.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u49	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Presidents to organise the debate. The sitting is suspended and will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 12.50 a.m. and resumed at 13.25 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u50	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of confidence raised by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the Decree-Law laying down urgent provisions for economic growth in the Mezzogiorno. The debate on the question of trust, for which an hour and thirty-five minutes has been allocated, will begin immediately in a single sitting, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will then follow and call it. It will continue with the examination of the bill of conversion of the decree-law containing urgent provisions for the compulsory administrative liquidation of Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA and Veneto Banca SpA.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u53	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I have received a message that the hearing of the Director-General of RAI, Orfeo, has been moved to 3 p.m. in the Radio Surveillance Committee. I wonder whether this is confirmed or whether, as a result of the new organisation of work, this hearing will be missed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u54	No, because the bicameral committees and the standing committees have been authorized to convene for urgent and necessary matters.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u55	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this umpteenth confidence further undermines the role of the Senate and frustrates the work done in the Commission for two weeks, including by using night sessions. The government lacks respect for its citizens, because it offends its political representation. However, we certainly felt that the Government's efforts to provide aid to the Mezzogiorno, with incentives for industrial investment and new entrepreneurship, were welcome through the establishment of the so-called special economic zones. We note with satisfaction that even a central-left government has finally understood the value of legislative simplification, because of procedures and regulations in this country too often the free enterprise dies, while, as we have always argued, streamlining the bureaucratic and administrative process is precisely the first fundamental step to promote investment, both public and private, not only in the South. However, the choice of the Government to put in place some measures to promote the development of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno still lacks a strategic vision, because when we talk about the business system in the South we cannot limit ourselves to some areas and some sectors. The craft, tourist, commercial enterprises, in Regions that live also and above all of tourism - I think for example of Puglia - are in fact as vital as those of transport and logistics. It would therefore have been desirable, as well as appropriate, to introduce corrective measures in the Decree-Law on the Mezzogiorno in order to strengthen the whole service chain, especially those for people. On the other hand, the measure covers only three sectors: agriculture, crafts and industry. Certainly the measures in these three areas are positive, but they are also certainly insufficient. As I said, it is therefore regrettable to note, by the Government and the majority supporting it, the lack of a strategic vision, combined with the total lack of political courage. I refer, for example, to agriculture, the case of vouchers, abolished at the first leaf of the trade unions and the radical lefts. This abolition has cost - I quote Mr Coldiretti's estimate - the loss of at least 50,000 job opportunities for seasonal activities precisely in the agricultural sector which you are now telling us to defend and relaunch with this measure. We speak not only of individual farms, but of entire production sectors, which have used vouchers not only in compliance with the rules and laws, but also and above all in respect of the dignity of workers, making use of them thrifty and only to cope with unexpected increases in production. Well, in agriculture as in other sectors, the vouchers have been penalized by the occasional workers and those serious companies that used them only in exceptional situations, with the result that, instead of eliminating only the abuses, through a more targeted regulatory intervention, the Government has beaten in retreat, allowing thousands of job opportunities to be abolished. Why not then use the opportunity of this regulatory system to re-introduce this institution, with the necessary corrections that prevent any form of abuse of it? Yet you did not feel it necessary to do so. Here, then, in this respect too, the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno presents itself as yet another resounding missed opportunity. Speaking of agriculture again, there is another front that this decree-law leaves completely uncovered. I am referring to the substantial climate change, which particularly affects the agricultural sector and which is now misleading to define exceptional, treating it as an occasional and emerging phenomenon. The hot record of the last days, in fact, with perceived temperatures that in the South exceed even 40 degrees, about 8-9 degrees above the seasonal average, represents a very hard blow for Italian agriculture, already put to the test this year by the alternation of heat, frost, hailstorms and water bombs and by a spring among the least rainy of the last two hundred years, with estimated damages for over one billion euros. It is not always possible to use emergent interventions or compensations which, very often, are insufficient and late and arrive when companies have already failed. Rather, we need a structural plan for Italian agriculture, which focuses on the prevention of damage and on the rational and more efficient use of soil and water resources, with appropriate incentives. In the face of the considerable damage already recorded and the blows inflicted on the agricultural sector, we cannot be found unprepared every time for the arrival of new frosts or new waves of African heat. Moving on to the chapter youth employment and enterprise initiative in the Mezzogiorno, also the planned measure called "Resto al Sud" betrays the lack of strategic vision. The aim is to create new entrepreneurship, including youth, with the Government's forecast of some 100,000 potential new businesses, thanks to the facilities provided, where it is stated that young Southerners who do not have their own resources to start their own business can access a budget of 40,000 euros, of which 35% are lost, to cover the entire investment and working capital. But the measure effectively excludes from the recipients of these incentives just some of the most important and driving sectors of the economy of those areas, such as tourism, trade and the freelancers, with the risk of compromising the achievement of such an ambitious objective. This would be precisely the direction to take in order to be able to speak of a real commitment from the Government for the revival of the South. Today, instead, that part of our peninsula, which is located in the center of the Mediterranean, remains the least intensely valued for tourist purposes. A separate chapter concerns private enterprises that work for the State by offering quality products and services and that are not paid by the same on time. The fact that public administration is guilty of late or missed payments is a real trap for businesses. The General Accounting Office of the State informs us that, to date, there would be at least 10 million invoices unused by the public administration, for a financial value that is even around 42 billion euros. Talking about incentives and support for businesses when they get rid of their lifeblood is a short circuit that can no longer be tolerated. It is not particularly so after a few years ago our country was the subject of an infringement procedure by Europe for the violation of Community rules on payments. Without considering that, if companies are removed from liquidity, investment also falls and inevitably suffers from employment levels and all this only exacerbates the crisis of companies and jobs. We need coherence, therefore, as well as an overall plan. We have searched among the pages of the measure measures in support of the development and the modernization of the enterprises of the Mezzogiorno active in the various sections that compose that supply chain, from the catering to the receptiveness, to the entertainment, until the intermediary of the tourist services and to the nautical one from diporto. Needless to say, there is no trace of it. In light of this, talking about the measure as a support to the South and in particular, to the tourist system of the southern area, a sector that is flying for the growth of the productive fabric, is reduced to a pure exercise of rhetorical art. Finally, with regard to employment measures, as the Italian Enterprise Network rightly pointed out a few days ago during its hearing in the competent Commission, it is necessary to clarify how inter-branch funds should be involved in the allocation of resources for the financing of retraining and relocation programmes for the unemployed, avoiding improper solidarity, as these funds are intended exclusively for the financing of training programmes for employees. It is useless, in fact, to exclude from the bans of the fund "Resto al Sud" the expenses for the design and those for the staff, in order to avoid to feed the markets of the advice and other opportunistic behaviors, if, at the same time, this chapter of expenditure is left in indeterminate, with all the risks that this entails in terms of improper employment or real waste of resources. On the other hand, the decree-law in question has become the usual omnibus provision in which it is part of everything, with matters completely unrelated to the object of the measure itself. In short, if the Mezzogiorno were to be examined, the Government would certainly be postponed until September. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is no more time to waste, because the South is not only risking economic desertification, but also social desertification. Some studies have shown that over the last three years there have been so many Italian immigrants who were in the immediate post-war period and at the end of the 19th century, i.e. over 250,000 per year, headed mainly to Germany and the United Kingdom. What worries most is the quality of emigration, with an increasing number of young Italians, graduates or highly educated who leave our country, and to a large extent the South, because here they do not find the opportunity to see recognized and rewarded their skills and abilities. It was necessary for the government to work to contain this hemorrhage of young brains and the consequent loss of competitiveness for the country: the majority had four years to deal with it, but it did very little and the measure under consideration is not conclusive at all. Moreover, the imposition of the question of trust makes it even more indigestible and this is one more reason to vote against a government that has changed the helmsman, but has not yet found the right path to economic growth and employment, especially in the South. [[Applause from Senators Cassinelli and Floris. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u57	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u58	Mr President, I will try to deal with a number of issues that we are facing and to do so fairly quickly. You ask why we are surprised, once again, that there is confidence in a decree-law. We are no longer surprised at anything and are used to this way of law-making, but we are not resigned. That is the political point. For the truth, on Decree-Law No 91 of 2017 I would like to say strongly that for the second time in this legislature we intervene on policies that should stimulate the development of the Mezzogiorno: the first time it happened with Decree-Law No 243 of 2016 and today, once again with the modalities of the decree of urgency and confidence, which in fact determines the impossibility on the part of Parliament and the social and political forces to have a wide confrontation and therefore to be able to make their contribution on issues that - I would like to remind you here - are fundamental not only for the South. I am thinking of the issue of delays, of the fact that the data of ISTAT and SVIMEZ, also mentioned by some of my colleagues, speak of the great social and economic crisis of the South: this is a problem that concerns the whole country and that determines the impossibility of moving forward, to recover and to emerge firmly from the crisis. There is an intervention in bulk, with some fragmentation of the measures taken; in reality, there is no vision, structural and programmatic intervention. We are in fact pursuing the same economic policy line that this Government and the previous government have pursued, that is, all measures are aimed at promoting the supply, supporting the company, the tax benefits, but in reality we see once again the absence of an overall strategy. Only the structural funds are entrusted with the task of reducing the existing gap and in this context the essential rights of citizenship are not fully guaranteed even with respect to the rest of the country. There was a need for a work plan for the Mezzogiorno, such as we have proposed in recent years, combining development, citizenship rights and work and seeing at the centre a major action plan on water infrastructure, hydrogeological failure and the enhancement of the great heritage of the South. This did not happen. In addition, Mr President, there are some points within the Decree-Law which could rightly be increased and which could also be a working instrument. On the other hand, we did not want to hold a serious debate on this, nor did we want to accept a number of suggestions that we had allowed ourselves to propose through the amendments. I would like to focus on a number of issues, such as Article 3, concerning the abandoned and uncultivated land bank and measures for the exploitation of unused assets. It is the question of agricultural areas and therefore the need to ensure that young people can have access to land in an area such as agriculture, which is fundamental for the South and for the country and which is a true element of good growth for the country itself. I would also like to point out that the agri-food sector is one of the few that has continued to grow even during the crisis, despite all the problems and difficulties in exporting. Today there is a need for further action and a qualitative leap, especially in the age of climate change, which is not just a set-up of environmentalists, as you can see today. In fact, we are in full climate chaos and we have a real water emergency, which affects agriculture, with the enormous damage that is happening, and that also affects the big cities, starting with mine. The bank of abandoned and uncultivated lands and the ban are important ideas. But there is one problem: this work, especially with regard to agricultural land and land subject to artificial reforestation, had to be absolutely guaranteed that it was intended to maintain the bond of agricultural destination. Otherwise we will find ourselves, especially for the part concerning paragraph 5, relating to the built up areas or industrial use, in the face of temptations or the dangers of speculation, instead of doing serious work to promote a more organized and educated return by young people in the primary sector. In addition, I believe that in this very decree-law it was necessary to begin to put in a series of measures concerning water saving. For agriculture it was possible to intervene through a series of measures and interventions on the extension of water saving and dripping systems and a series of technologies, which are at our disposal today, in order to make sure to build a real plan of adaptation of the primary sector. I come here to the question of fires, on which the Government has tabled an amendment which has been declared inadmissible. Now, instead of tabling an amendment such as that which was then expounded and which intervened on the confiscation system, I believe that, in the face of a huge emergency that has not been resolved at all, because there continue to be fires throughout our country, the Government had the duty to intervene in the race also with this decree-law, because we are precisely in an emergency situation. I do not say that with this decree-law we had to put in place the national strategy, which is also absolutely necessary, supported by financial resources to start real policies of mitigation and adaptation to climate change, but on the emergency yes. Now, we have found ourselves in a real perfect storm, unfortunately, not in the positive sense, but in the negative sense: there have been a wave of heat, drought, criminal hands (on which I will return) and a phase of transition, very distressed, that has been produced in the dissolution of the Forest Corps and in its transfer to the Carabinieri and the firemen. As the Minister knows, the decree of implementation that should have been made by November 2016 for the distribution of the means was not done, so we were faced with a clearly unorganized situation, also due to the weakness of the instruments made available to the Firefighter Corps (for the part that went to them). Just think of the fact that the Forest Corps had 32 helicopters, a fleet largely used for the extinction of fires; well, after the division of the vehicles between the Carabinieri and the Fire Department, of the 17 helicopters assigned to the latter, the majority are on the ground and in maintenance and therefore only very few have been used for the shutdown operations. As for the means assigned to the Carabinieri, only recently, in front of the emergency, very few of these have been used in aid. I go into detail to say that it would have been possible to intervene to increase the endowment of means also through this decree-law (Article 9), as it had been done with the additional article that concerned the issue of the confiscation of areas crossed by fire. The Government has a duty to make a reflection in order to better intervene also on the competences. I do not think that the question of forest fires can remain as it is today: we will probably also have to deal with the competences of forest carabinieri. Another issue concerns the criminal hands for which I spoke, precisely, of perfect storm. Inside the Carabinieri there is a nucleus - transferred from the Forest - for the investigation of forest fires, but I believe that we need to strengthen and, as far as the judicial investigation is concerned, we must begin to think that here too we must intervene through a logic of pool and coordination. It is not a question of pizzarelli piromani, here there are criminal hands: what happened in the Park of Vesuvius in the area of Naples, but also in other parts and in other regions, tells us - and the clues are strong - of acts not isolated, but very linked to a criminal design. And this is huge damage to our country. Therefore we would have expected that we could intervene in the race in the decree-law, even increasing the resources available to the fire department for an emergency that is not calming. There's also another possibility. Today we have a further need to strengthen our ability to prevent and control. We know that the competences for forest fires are of the Regions, but those that have been massacred most by fires (Latium, Campania, Puglia, Calabria, Sicily) have accumulated great delays in the approval of plans A and B, and also in the conventions with firemen. The Forestry Corps had a historical experience in prevention and control, and we in both these areas need to strengthen the tools at our disposal. Today there are technologies that allow us to do so. Drones are used to deliver Amazon packages, a drone would be enough to check very large areas with the ability to check even if someone uses a lighter. We are not talking about huge numbers. I ask the question and - I say this to the Government and Professor De Vincenti here - I am sorry that there has not been a discussion, except in the Commissions, on this subject. I believe that we need to put in place a number of instruments that can enable us to intervene for land control, prevention, investigation, instrumentation and resources. One thing, though, we would have expected. Precisely because, with regard to Article 3, I said that the bank of uncultivated land is a good idea, but that then it is necessary to prevent changes of destination and to ensure that those agricultural areas are used as agricultural areas, in the same way on the part of the fires one could intervene to activate the substitute powers of the municipalities that do not make the register of areas crossed by fire, which continue to be a fairly large number. So instead of tabling the amendment, which was then removed from the text for inadmissibility, a rule such as this cost nothing and could activate the substitute powers. I shall conclude, Mr President, although I have many other things to say, including on Article 9, on the environmental side. We regret that this decree-law in some way, as I said at the beginning, was once again a lost opportunity, also to make a much more articulated reasoning and to make sure that a real plan could be activated that would valorize the resources of the territories of the South: to do this, however, once again, no one takes us from the head that operations like this are done only if you put it in the head, that you can no longer continue to work only on the side of the offer but that you need public investments and that this is the only way to reactivate a real development plan of quality for the South and therefore for the whole of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,800.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u59	Mr President, the 5th Commission, as in the case of the Senate, met to examine the text of the amendment to the single article converting the decree-law and found that the text of the amendment lodged by the Government corresponds to the text of the amendments approved by the Commission with two exceptions, which are already known to the House. The first exception is the deletion of the amendments to the penal code referred to in Article 9-e (1). The House has understood the issue of fires, limited to the issue that interferes with the penal code, as announced by the Presidency, as it is declared inadmissible. Instead, the second amendment is the extension of the financing period, as referred to in Article 11-c, from 2019 to 2025. We're here on prison housing in the South, with cover on special funds. This change was announced, however, by the Minister Finocchiaro when he asked the question of trust. The Commission considered this to be an absolutely acceptable change. I must also point out that in the technical report, however, the General Accounting Office of the State asks for two amendments to the text, to which the positive opinion on the amendment depends. At the bottom of the report it is stated that it is verified positively by the General Accountant of the State, provided that paragraph 8-a of Article 12 is deleted and that paragraph 17-b of Article 3 is amended as follows in the same technical report. The 5th Commission recommends that the Government accept this condition laid down by the General Accountant of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u60	I would ask the Government whether it intends to accept the proposals for amendments made by the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u61	Yes, Mr President, the Government accepts the demands.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u62	Let us then resume the discussion on the question of trust posed by the Government. Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u63	Mr President, I have heard of the southern issue associated with this measure. If we really wanted to tackle the southern issue in a serious and definitive way, the measure we are debating would really be a drop. Obviously, someone might observe that the sea is made with so many drops. However, when you can safely do much more, why settle for a drop? The measure does not address a number of problems, starting with those relating to corporate taxation and very high unemployment, which could have been addressed without repealing a 1990 law which gave the possibility to benefit from important social security benefits. You wanted to repeal this law and you replaced it with a rule we saw watering. As for water, I cannot fail to mention the forest fires that have been occurring in this period in a very strong way, and the toxic fires, which we know very well, have been happening for years and years. Looking at the toxic fires that have been occurring for years in certain territories, I cannot understand why we do not want to deal with them in a serious and definitive way. The same goes for forest fires. You wanted to destroy - alas, indeed ahinoi - the sentinels of prevention and control on the Italian territory, represented by the Forest Body of the State, without worrying to replace it with another structure able to do prevention and control. In Campania a lot has been said about the Vesuvius National Park and we know very well - it is now under everyone's eye - that in that Region there are a Junta and a President who want to take care of anything else instead of the real problems of the bells. I repeat and repeat that one of the real problems of the bells is the toxic fires, which is an age-old problem and not today's. The current problem is forest fires, and the Junta and the President did not want to tackle this problem. Returning to us, the decree-law under consideration, called the Mezzogiorno but which I would call half-decree, which contains this fine word, would like to address the southern issue, as I have also heard from Minister De Vincenti. However, the problem is not dealt with in this way. If we really want to tackle the southern issue, we must first of all act seriously, looking at history, what was told us when we were children and what is being told to children today. Simply, in order not to have holes, you have to go and look at the story. I would like to return once again to what has happened in the Mezzogiorno of Italy and to what is not contained in the decree-law under consideration. What happened was an exceptional fire. Some have said that these are situations that could not be foreseen or managed because they are exceptional. To these people then I say: it is true, the situation has become exceptional; it is not exceptional the fact that in July the woods are set on fire, but it has become exceptional at the time when there has been no prevention, control and management. And why all this? Because on the one hand you have removed those who did prevention and control and on the other you have not properly financed and as you had to, management. So then what happened happened, but these things will always happen, they will continue to happen when you even want to resolve the southern issue with a decree-law that contains no resources to solve the problem of fires, nor the problem of discrepancy, of the employment difference between the North and the South of Italy. We're all Italians, fine, but in order to say it, we have to be identical. How is it possible that the number one port in the Mezzogiorno, even in the Mediterranean, which should be the flagship of Italy, Gioia Tauro, does not even have an ad hoc railway line? How is that possible? Why are there no resources in this decree-law on the Mezzogiorno to solve this problem as well? How is it possible, again, that half a day should be spent going to Bari? In the Mezzogiorno decree these issues are not addressed, and then you explain to me what this decree-law to the Mezzogiorno is for, since it does not contain tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises, it does not provide for social security benefits for the recruitment of workers resident in the Mezzogiorno, it absolutely does not provide for anything to strengthen fire control and prevention, it does not propose any measure that contains proper funding for the monitoring and management of fires, nor to solve the problem of transport and mobility in the Mezzogiorno of Italy? But then what is this decree-law for? And even come here and ask the question of trust. This decree-law is absolutely something that does not serve and will not serve: it is only to close the summer and to say that something has been done also for the Mezzogiorno, as if it were a puppy that throws crumbs. [[Applause from Senators Airola and Bulgarelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u64	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u65	Mr President, it is with some embarrassment that I am speaking in this House, in which I believe there are just over ten senators (perhaps less) and it is embarrassing the programming that was wanted and imposed by the majority on input from the Government, because it is clear that this is the programming of a Parliament that no longer has any power, of a Government that carries on its existence exclusively to reach the end of the legislature and that it has nothing more to say. It is sad to be in this situation, with a Parliament that no longer has legislative power, because the only laws that are passed in this House are those of converting measures adopted through the decree of urgency, therefore with a role of the Government that should not be its own, that is to say, to approve the rules allowing Parliament only to say, within 60 days, favorable or contrary, using the instrument of trust and therefore forcing the majority to lower its head to adapt to the positions of the Government and putting the minority and the impossibility of exercising its role of opposition and control. This is now a Parliament that can no longer legislate. It is evident from the constant recourse to the decree of urgency and confidence. We will see it today and we will see it tomorrow with the very important and delicate decree-law that concerns the Venetian banks and the lives of many Venetian citizens, savers of our territory, with an absolute lack of respect on the part of the Government towards Parliament. The parliamentary passages have now become acts of pure formality, a sort of bureaucratic passage that degrades the legislative activity of all of us. Moreover, this activity, it must be said, is carried out by an absolutely delegitimized Government. This government was born as a result of the failure and defeat of the Renzi Government, a government that was rejected through a referendum action by the President of the Council in December last year, and that was to last a few months, the time necessary to launch the electoral law and arrive at the elections. This government and this majority are doing something else: they are trying to live up to measures that are not contained, such as the one we are examining, and they are neglecting the only task they had to do, namely to give citizens the opportunity to return to the elections at last and, after more than six years, to elect a President of the Council and a majority that govern us, fully legitimized in their tasks. We, however, not only contest the way in which this measure is carried out, we also contest it on the merits. We are talking about a decree-law that should deal with the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno. It has been said by many members of the majority of the Government that this is finally an innovative decree-law that addresses the issue of the crisis that exists in the Mezzogiorno in a new and innovative form and that drives to hope well in the future and in a better use of resources. These are the usual lies, the usual lies that have been used for more than forty years in these parliamentary classrooms. In fact, it is evident from the reading of the bill to our examination that it is a set of measures of little importance, of electoral marches, of spot interventions (some very questionable), of contributions in some cases in rain, which will never reach the objective that has been set, that is to give economic development to the Mezzogiorno. I would start from two of the key points of this measure that are important contributions, that is those offered with notices to promote the creation of new enterprises in the southern regions with an appropriation, from here to 2025 of more than one billion and 250 million (in fact for 2017 there are only 36 and then you will see) and for interventions in favor of the creation of new entrepreneurship youth in the field of agriculture with a total allocation of 125 million, which should respond to 625 initiatives for the whole Mezzogiorno. It is clear that they are commercial interventions but it is also evident that the resources available to our country and the budget of our State are badly used. That of contributions is a wrong approach. This is the role that regions and local and regional authorities should play in creating notices and making contributions. The state should do something else, the government should do something else, it should create an adequate tax system to allow businesses to live, survive and prosper even without contributions. This is the real useful and necessary attitude not only in the Mezzogiorno but within the country. It is madness to think of living in a state where governments increase the tax burden at an unlikely level, making it impossible to create an enterprise and, as a palliative, occasionally, they launch small, mini-measures that provide tax relief that should solve the serious economic and financial crisis of our country. This is obviously a mirror for the laodole: they are absolutely useless interventions, because the real response to the economic crisis not of the Mezzogiorno but of the entire country, also of the lands of the North and the North East where the number of companies that have failed since 2008 is very high, had to be another: reduction of the tax pressure and leave free the entrepreneurs, the forces that are still there and the energies that are present on our national territory, to be able to express freely and not have to be found in the situation of investing money then, not for own fault but for an unsustainable tax pressure, having to close its activity within a few months, in a short time. This is the sick system that exists in our country and the contributions that you give, in some cases lost money and, in others, at a reduced rate, will do the same. We will give money to young entrepreneurs who will hopefully start a new economic activity, but who, due to the unsustainable tax burden, will close within a short time. They are resources thrown to the wind, resources plundered by our territories that you throw into the void, creating false illusions both for those who will receive them and for those who will not be able to grab them and - above all - for those who pay taxes every day and see the fruit of their work wasted in this indecorous way. It is an irresponsible attitude; it is the regions that must and introduce the facilities, certainly not a serious and responsible government. The president of Confcommercio Sangalli, as we can read from an agency, said today that the tax burden in Italy is unsustainable. This is what Sangalli says today, so many other representatives of the trade associations say, the whole country says, but you are blind and deaf to the real need of our country: a fair tax that allows, to those who want it, to undertake and to be able to survive. You are killing our economy, from the Monti Government onwards this was the constant approach of successive governments, led by the Democratic Party. Little changes have been made between Monti, Letta, Renzi, Gentiloni Silveri, because the setting was always the same. We want a different approach, in which there is less state, a state that erodes services, without taking on the role of collecting resources unsustainablely and then throwing them into the wind with this type of measures. In a country that is no longer competitive for tax pressure, you cannot think of getting away with these measures, so cheap, thinking of giving it to understand even those who are in difficulty in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. President, we need a change of course, which has to go through the elections. We say no to confidence in this Government, no to useless measures, no to live in these months with a deserted House, with an absent government, with the problems that are exploding. We also say no to commercial measures, such as the allocation of another 150 million euros that are paid to the territories of Manfredonia in the Province of Foggia, San Ferdinando in the Province of Reggio Calabria and Castel Volturno in the Province of Caserta. Article 16 of the measure stipulates that such resources are to be provided as urgent measures to address situations of social marginality. Social margin? It is therefore hoped that these appropriations will be made for the benefit of those in economic difficulty, but reading the content reveals that they will be allocated instead to promote the gradual integration of foreign nationals regularly present in the territories concerned by facilitating access to social and health services as well as the integration measures provided for in the territory, including the school integration of minors. The emergencies of the South, the Country, the situations of social marginality are identified by this Government with these measures. It's a shame. It is a shame that you have abandoned to your own destiny the real social marginalized, who are our fellow citizens from North to South, and you have as your sole behavior the waste of billions of euros for a mad policy of invasion that does not create development and economy, but only waste of resources, social tensions and now a disenchant on the part of our citizens towards a government that should only draw consequences: close its doors and give the citizens the floor again to finally and democratically choose a government that represents them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u68	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, the Conference of Leaders, at which you, like me, were present, authorised the Commissions to continue their work, but not the other Commissions. In this particular case, there is the Health Commission which today completed the debate on the early declarations of will. During trust this is not possible. As far as I am concerned, it is also a violation of my parliamentary rights, because I was registered to speak there and, not yet having the gift of ubiquity, I cannot be here and elsewhere at the same time. I would ask you, Mr President, to enforce that decision and to put an end to the 12th session. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Of course, since this intervention is not intended to obstruct, but simply to enforce a decision, there is the willingness on my part to speak this evening, tomorrow morning or at any other time the President will consider it useful to convene that Commission. Maybe not in the presence of another trust, like the one we are about to vote tomorrow morning on the decree banks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u69	Senator Quagliariello, I inform you that the 12th Commission has just been uncalled for. I would remind you that the bicameral committees and the standing committees, such as the 6th Commission, which have binding acts to carry out are authorized to be convened. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. Since he is not here, he is said to have given up. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u72	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of both myself and the other members of the Group, who shared the measure with me, on the question of trust raised by the Government, for the reasons which were partly set out in the general debate. This is not an intervention that defines and exhausts a policy for the Mezzogiorno, but it is a regulatory intervention that was needed. These are urgent issues, which include initiatives which have already taken place, allow and allow a debate on the problems affecting the economy and society of our Mezzogiorno and the islands, in a projection which I think can begin to be seen during the next budgetary manoeuvre. One thing in fact we are all aware that the overall condition of the Country needs a specific policy for the Mezzogiorno, which therefore knows how to organize a system of interventions and a program of medium and long term to overcome the causes at the basis of the differences of development that still exist in our Country between the North and the Centre-North industrialized (strong from the financial point of view and more organized from the social point of view), and the Mezzogiorno of Italy (which instead is crossed not only by difficulties and obvious discomforts, but by problems of absolute concreteness that must be addressed and solved). I am referring, for example, to the infrastructure needs of the Mezzogiorno and, above all, to the transport network of the Mezzogiorno. Transport is essential and I speak not only for Sardinia, which has an objective difficulty which also derives from its island status, but also from the rest of the Mezzogiorno. We have tried - the Minister knows this and was also in favour - also to present an agenda, so that the issue could be dealt with in the next measures: we need to intervene on the railway system in the Mezzogiorno of Italy in order to make it compatible with the needs to connect that part of our country with the rest of Europe. There can be no land, like Puglia, that lives in isolation from the connections with the rest of the country and with the European Union equal to those of a region like Sardinia, which is an island: I am talking about air connections, airport infrastructure, the state of the roads, the road network and I am talking, above all, about the railways, which are likely to be a real safety problem. The Minister knows that we have asked that the agency that presides over the verification of the safety conditions of our national railway system can also intervene on the regional and local railways, which are managed by subjects on regional concession, because there can be no situations of risk - I speak above all of the railway networks with single track - that endanger the lives of the people and the quality and efficiency of that type of transport, that it is essential to develop the economy and guarantee adequate social services, within an important territory like that of Puglia. I refer to Puglia, but the reasoning also applies to other regions, such as Calabria or Basilicata, and to many other territories of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. There are high unemployment rates and we therefore appreciate the attempt to link local development to self-entrepreneurship and the productive and socially useful use of real estate, even private property, which has now been abandoned. This is an initiative which exists in the legal literature and which, in my opinion, is being taken up in a positive way. Could it have been done more? Could financial aid for youth self-entrepreneurship be more robust? Maybe, but let's start with this, we value the resources present in our places and recover their productive vocations. It would be very useful for employment to recover traditional productions and construction techniques: I think about the recovery of the real estate, even of value, that we have in our small municipalities. I think of Sardinia, but there are some in Sicily, Puglia and other places. They represent a possible place of development for tourist and receptive activities and can positively connect our agriculture with the tourist offer and make it an additional value and value. These, in summary, are the reasons why the measure under consideration will not be exhaustive, but serves. We believe that it is useful and that is why we shall vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u75	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Senator colleagues, Minister, the policy for the Mezzogiorno of Italy over the last three years has been absent. The South was the black hole in the economic policy of the previous Executive, at least until it was considered that the votes of the citizens of the Mezzogiorno could have been decisive for the challenge on the constitutional referendum last 4 December. Only and only at the time of the electoral count have we been reminded of the dramatic unemployment, the infrastructural backwardness, the weakness of the ruling classes, all too often left alone to face problems of a national dimension, such as that of organised crime. "The South is not a holiday park": these few words of former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi perfectly make the "depth of thought" that has updated the southern tradition. On the way, chasing the referendary deadline, we saw slides browse and show eye-catching graphics, which saw a revolution in the South. I quote: "Stop crying over yourself, 2016 will be the year of the turning," announced triumphant the current secretary of the PD, promising the release and allocation of funds for the implementation of the masterplan for the South. 31 billion euros - a figure of all respect, there is nothing to say - were planned for the financing of the Pacts for the South between Government and Regions or cities, but at best these turned out to be the repositioning of sums already allocated previously, in the worst empty announcements of which on December 5 they lost track. In hindsight, given the outcome of the referendum in the Mezzogiorno, it could be concluded that the masterplan's comedy has not even succeeded in the overall aim to share the idea of "seminaring optimism." In fact, I'd say it amplified pessimism. We have always felt that the South is a national problem. This phrase has been uttered in vain so many times that it is now emptied and meaningless, and this statement has become urgent. But today, in the face of timid signals of reaction to an economic crisis that has been going on for almost a decade, in the face of a return of attention to this problem by the Government, the government can be blamed for a policy that is not shared, but not to make no policy, as was the case with the previous Commission. No one can deny, in fact, that if the gap between North and South continues to grow, there is no hope for Italy. Italy can only return to growth if it resumes to grow in the South, where the rate of development is lower and, therefore, the growth potential is greater. That is why we need to act quickly and seriously. The fact that the Government applied to an ad hoc measure for the Mezzogiorno and that it had thought of intervening through the instrument of tax advantage had finally seemed to us good news. We have been saying this for years that this is the only way to restore oxygen to the economy and to the southern productive fabric and that only by creating a favourable environment and conditions of advantage properly negotiated with Europe is it possible to make this territory attractive for Italian and foreign investment capitals. This is the only possible recipe for growth in the age of globalization; it is also the way to reverse a course that is leading at full speed to the economic, demographic and cultural desertification of a third of our country. Mr President, the economic and fiscal side is not the only front on which to intervene. It would be necessary to deal seriously with not irrelevant factors such as the ill-conceived system of self-governments, the uneven relationship between the State and the Regions, the black hole of the metropolitan areas: a system, in short, that in the South is producing extial consequences and, if seen closely, profoundly more serious than those caused to the North. And again, the caducity and the lack of responsibility of the ruling classes, the inadequate formative valorization of human capital, the qualitative decay of university and post-university education, the dollosity of the welfare and anti-subsidial logic, the chronicity of the lack of work, up to the backwardness of the road and infrastructure networks, on which the previous colleague concentrated, are factors that, if examined as a whole, involve a total paralysis of the economic, institutional and social system of the South. On the other hand, our approach has never been a maximalist one: we have always preferred the minimum programmes to the maximum programmes, but if they are well-designed and have the opportunity to deliver good results. Returning to the core business of the measure under discussion in this House today, or rather to what this decree-law should have focused on, we absolutely agree - as mentioned earlier - that the creation of special economic zones in the Southern regions is the right path. However, we must take this path with precision and seriousness, not through yet another blank delegation to the Commission. I'm saying this in full knowledge of the facts, colleagues. I am so deeply convinced of the usefulness of the special economic zones in the South, if well-designed and balanced, that I have spent the last six months studying this hypothesis and I have deepened it, thanks to the support of economists of all schools, all aspects of economic and financial sustainability. It is driven by the positive potential of an intervention that could go in this direction, even before submitting the draft law which, as I said, we have prepared on this subject, we have considered putting this work at the disposal of the Commission, the majority and Parliament, in the form of amendments to the decree-law under consideration. Colleagues of the majority, representatives of the Government, I invite you to read - to dead father, as they say - the content of amendment 4.1, signed by me and my colleague Mr Augello, who proposed to rewrite the entire article 4 - the one establishing the ZES - with a serious approach to the areas with special taxation in the Southern regions, which provided - of course - for close cooperation with regional governments, but also for the establishment of the ZES respecting strict limits and imposing mandatory requirements in the selection of areas where these facilities can be applied. One cannot fail to consider what elective requirements for EEZ indicators such as value added per head, unemployment rate, risk of depopulation, the number of enterprises active in the territory that is proposed to be selected. We cannot fail to discuss here the taxes from which exemption is to be granted and which companies (of which sectors, of which size and level of turnover) allow access to this facility. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that it is unnecessary to consider whether the possible zero taxation regime for new companies could cause an economic and competitive imbalance which would further exacerbate the state of crisis in which thousands of craftsmen, traders, entrepreneurs - despite everything - have chosen to remain in the South and not to relocate their business for mere economic or fiscal convenience? Do you not think that alongside the activities of new settlement we need to think of a form of support also for those who are already there and in the South decided to stay? Colleagues, not only ports or logistic platforms deserve this kind of incentives, even small centres, degraded suburbs, isolated areas and difficult to reach in our country deserve it. We had proposed to devote to this ambitious and revolutionary project the significant resources already allocated to the Pacts for the South and which were blocked, as expected, due to the impossibility and inability to implement these programmes, both on the government side and on the local side. As I conclude, Mr President, I would like to point out that, in the face of all this, the Government and the rapporteurs in the 5th Commission have considered that they have given a superficial and inattentive negative opinion. Once again, colleagues of the majority and representatives of the Government, there could have been a sharing, at least in chief, of the intentions, frustrated first of all by the haste imposed by the Government on the parliamentary treatment of these measures. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot but declare on behalf of the Federation of Freedom Group an inevitable vote against the question of confidence placed on the maxi amendment entirely replacing the Mezzogiorno Decree-Law before this House, considering that unfortunately we are faced with yet another wasted opportunity. [[Applause from Senator Di Giacomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u78	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it would appear that this decree-law must solve the serious problem of the Mezzogiorno. But the impression is that you want to treat a serious patient with aspirin. If we go to see the enormous problems that the South has, we cannot think of solving them, even if only in a small part, with this decree-law (which, let's remember, is not the first decree-law of this Government on matter, having made another one a couple of months ago). Let us think only of the unemployment rates, of the youth work that absolutely is not there, of the enterprises that must always fight - in addition to having to survive because of the taxation that this Government imposes - also against the mafia phenomenon, which unfortunately there is in the South. Let us think about the state of public services in the South, from schools to hospitals, from public administration to the same infrastructure, to the outskirts of cities. Despite all the funds there are; we only think about the FAS funds, about these huge funds that are being allocated. Unfortunately, the recovery of the Mezzogiorno cannot be achieved. Look, Mr President, I am speaking to you as a person of the North, as a legist: it would be all in the interest of the Northern question to solve the problem of the South. However, it is not possible and surely it will not be possible with this decree-law. We think of a very topical problem, that of water. If we go to see the infrastructure, we notice that in the South the dispersion of aqueducts and pipes reaches levels of 70 or 80 percent. I think these are the problems that a serious government should solve. Before was mentioned the famous Salerno-Reggio Calabria, which President Renzi boasted to have completed. But I ask you to go and talk to the citizens of the South, who use this road and who complain, saying that it is impossible, because all the connecting infrastructure is missing. They say it's equally a feat to go that way. Or we think about health (these are the real problems of the citizens); we think about all the citizens of the South who have to come to the North in order to be cured. Or think about the problem of schools: probably in September the schools in the South in many Provinces will not reopen. This is government policy: trying to patch up the serious problems with small patches. The government has boasted that it has done the famous reform of the Provinces, but all the times it is emphasized the problem that has been a disastrous and incomprehensible reform, that goes against the citizens. The problem has been highlighted that the Provinces are not able to guarantee the fundamental services that they still have in charge. And every time you put some money on, you make it from here, you do that, you don't understand what the real problem is and how to solve it. But that's the attitude of the government. In the face of the problem of work, we try to do this "I'm staying in the South" for young people. But that is not enough, Mr President, and that will certainly not solve the problem. It has been pointed out that the problem is serious; consider the mortality of these companies, that they leave, but then they die immediately, just to take some money at the beginning and then that's it. Or think of the crime itself, which I have already mentioned. In the South, if, for example, a family wants to rejuvenate their baths, there is the problem that perhaps the Mafia itself tells them which companies to turn to. The question of the ZES is positive and very important, but unfortunately also in this case it has been thought only of their institution in important areas, where there are the ports, without thinking instead, so that they are really successful, that we must create all the infrastructure on the territory of reference: it is useless to have a free zone, a special zone where the ports are, if it is difficult to get there. Let us come to the subject of employment. In this case, too, we are thinking of unemployment in the South, but it is only a little bit of a consolation: to make a contribution to young unemployed people. First of all, I do not understand why the young unemployed in the South should be treated differently from the young unemployed in the North. For me this is almost unconstitutional: if you are an unemployed person in the South you are in the category "A"; if you are an unemployed person in the North you are in the category "B". [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Unemployment is a serious and real problem in this country! For companies it was thought to extend the super depreciation to help companies. Too bad this extension is one month: instead of being at 30 June 2018, it is at 31 July 2018. Is that the big strategy? On the question of local authorities it is said: "Let's go to favour these bodies" and "let's get them helped by the technical-administrative support of prefectures." Too bad then it even came to ANCI to say to let go of the help of the prefectures. Perhaps in this case we of the League are right when we say that prefectures should be abolished. Another problem that we fail to understand is why the single purchasing power station is not applied to the municipalities of the South, and yet there is a rule of law. Why isn't it applied? It's incomprehensible. Yet it is a matter that would benefit the citizens, because it would allow considerable savings to be made. I would also like to address the issue of the earthquake, which is fundamental: it is absolutely not good as the Government is dealing with it. Again, I no longer know what number of decree-laws we have come to deal with this emergency. I would like the citizens who have suffered the earthquake to come to this House and talk about the absurd discomfort that they are experiencing and that had already been submitted to the government several times. But the latter does not listen and continues to delay. The Government continues to postpone, except for the issue of immigrants; in this case the Government listens, indeed encourages: let's remember that it gives 150 million to those municipalities that make reception. In addition, these municipalities are allowed to employ staff. And all the other municipalities that have to hire because maybe they miss the watchman or the social worker? The aim is to provide key services for citizens in areas such as security and assistance. In this case no, you can't do it, there's no money. But money for immigrants, one way or another, is found. But what does the immigrants have to do with this decree-law? I really hope that we will vote as soon as possible, because we cannot go on like this. Citizens have the right to receive answers; Italian citizens have the right to the State take care of them and their needs. Unfortunately, this government is not doing so, least of all with this decree-law. We will therefore vote against it in a very strong way. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u81	COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, it is undoubtedly true that for the second time in this parliamentary term we are looking at a measure which mentions the Mezzogiorno in its title. Fortunately, when we talk about the Mezzogiorno, we can only be happy, even if a measure which includes only a series of very different measures and for which approval is used the instrument of the decree of urgency leaves us somewhat perplexed. Certainly we think that this measure could be a positive step if only it started an overall planning that sees the issue of the development of the Mezzogiorno in a more organic and unitary way and above all alien to the characteristics of urgency, temporaryity and occasionality, which have normally been the basis of the interventions of the policies adopted so far. I believe that we cannot use triumphalist tones, as I heard in this House during the debate, but much more humbly we should have the courage to say that the conversion into law of this decree-law could trigger some good development process, even if the conditional is an obligation, since it is nevertheless a measure whose practical effectiveness and the concentration of its impact on the reality of the Mezzogiorno is subject to the issuing of multiple implementing decrees. And you will understand all my doubts about the rapid possibility that the measures brought by this measure can have a real development impact in the territories of the South. We have said so many times, too often: from a macroeconomic point of view, the Mezzogiorno needs strategic intervention on at least three major issues, all of which are linked together. It has been said many times, but it is the most logical thing: infrastructure, economic development and social cohesion. These are the three bases on which you can move to make a strategic project of development of the territory. In this sense, therefore, even if we have heard of data that speak of small signs of recovery, we are aware that a huge social and economic crisis continues to persist in the South. Unemployment - as has been said several times - has reached stellar percentages; the activity of thousands of professionals has been characterized by the vertical collapse of incomes; increase of precariousness and high intermittent work draw an absolutely dramatic social picture. It would therefore, as we have already said, require a system strategy geared both to public investment and to combating unemployment. The question then is: do the measures provided for in this decree-law go in the direction we have identified and the diagnosis we have made? We can only answer this question with precise notes. For example, the establishment of the special economic zones, which we have often called for, together with the tax advantage and the infrastructure equalization, could certainly have led to a condition of growth. It could have been an appropriate strategy, but it could have been if, dear Minister, linked, for example, to a strategy on ports; if connected to creating a relationship between what is upstream and what is downstream. In the valley there must be an adequate harbour structure (therefore, investments on the ports); in the valley then there must also be an adequate net (therefore, the infrastructures of land or the highways of the sea), but above all the High speed and the High ability, that in Sicily, for example, there are not and probably never will be if you continue with these policies. If we look at the quality and quantity of investment, we cannot ignore the fact that the attraction of an enterprise determined by tax concessions alone is not sufficient if it is not accompanied by public investment. In addition, we southerners are, unfortunately, well aware of what assistance measures mean, which are simply linked to incentives. Care must be taken to ensure that the best infrastructure and market conditions are created around the EEZs, so that the investments put in place are long-term investments and, above all, survive the expiry of incentives. We believe that the main route is certainly not that of occasionality; it should, for example, be possible for the Mezzogiorno to rely on a stable fund for the equalization of ordinary capital resources, which survives the humors of the various governments a fund - as suggested recently by the same SVIMEZ some time ago - whose resources must be constantly filled up, even as expenditure on planned interventions is carried out, until the objective of territorial rebalancing is fully achieved. Needless to place resources for the South on the missions of the various ministries, if then they are reversed for other voices, as many times it has happened for the South. Finally, it must be said that the initiative of the establishment of the ZES will also have to be articulated in implementing decrees that will pass the scrutiny of the State-Regions Conference and, unfortunately, while striving, we cannot be optimistic with regard to the speed of the process and the setting up of the intervention. With regard to the measure "Remaining in the South" (very beautiful and attractive name), while considering that it can support self-entrepreneurship and appreciating that the amount of individual funding has been raised from EUR 40,000 to EUR 50,000, we believe that it is still a modest contribution. At the same time, there are still doubts about the practical application of the measure, as we fear that the usual bureaucracy will be lurking, with loss of time, as well as the exercise of power aimed at making people tired and causing them to give up even the incentive, as often happens in the South. In fact, in order to be able to fully judge this measure, it will be necessary to know the details of the decree-law that will regulate the conditions of access of the convention with Invitalia and, in particular, the scope of the guarantees that the proposers will have to lend. This, in particular, remains a decisive and worrying factor if young people are people with little or even no financial resources. Therefore, it is assumed that the benefits will certainly not be those expected or declared. The Bank of abandoned lands has also been spoken triumphantly. That, too, is certainly a good thing. We note, however, that it might be rather difficult to build lists and notices, all within the individual municipalities, often small, whose technical offices are not in a position to produce lists, much less in thirty days. Perhaps there could have been mechanisms for reporting by the same stakeholders, or in any case to broaden the use, in the possible ways, of this instrument also to the assets confiscated from the mafias. It is clear, again, that the appropriations allocated are absolutely inadequate. I would like to remind you, for example, that something like EUR 2.5 billion has been allocated to Expo. Certainly the City of Milan has benefited from the event, with the approval of all of us. I wonder how one can think of solving the issue of the development of the Mezzogiorno by placing resources for about one billion euros for the whole of the South, when only for the City of Milan two and a half billion euros have been invested. Minister, how can we speak of development in a region such as Sicily, the largest in Italy - but similar what can be said also for Puglia and Sardinia - where to cover the stretch between Trapani and Messina by train takes about nine hours, or to go from Catania to Palermo it takes four? There is no doubt that the amount of appropriations is absolutely insufficient to represent an effective response to all these crisis situations, which have been going on for years. Without a doubt, we need more than a few warm diapers. From these benches we have repeatedly called on all governments that have succeeded in the last four years the need for an extraordinary plan for the Mezzogiorno, which certainly includes the tax advantage, but on the whole territory; certainly the fight against the depopulation of small centres with tax incentives and especially services (the small centres die because they do not have the services); a plan for the recovery of historic centres, in order to restart the construction, for example with funding for consolidation; a great plan for agriculture, which must be protected without but without, and without, and a policy for our agricultural products that effectively contrasts the indiscriminate introduction of agricultural products from third countries; a credible plan for tourism and the enhancement of our extraordinary cultural heritage; the infrastructural equalization, with a strategy on ports and the realization of the high speed/high capacity; an effective governance, in particular the ability to ensure effective coordination between national and regional policies and measures; the continuity of interventions and not spot measures, as is also being done this time; the territorial deline of the instruments of the national industrial policy, which takes into account of the specific structural mechanisms for the merely strengthening of the structural interventions; the improvement of the conditions of the structural interventions for the structural interventions; the merely for the improvement of access to the structural interventions to the structural interventions; the concrete and the conditions of the improvement of the conditions of the structural interventions to the structural ones; the improvement of the conditions of the concrete measures which have been made; the continuity, as well as well as well as well as they have been made; and the continuation of the improvement of the concrete measures, as they have been called for the conditions for the conditions for the structural measures to the structural measures have been made by the conditions for the structural measures which have been introduced by the structural measures which have been taken by the structural measures which have been taken by the structural measures which have been taken by the structural measures which have been taken by means for the structural measures which have been taken by means to improve of access to improves... Only in this way, dear President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, can we really think that we can stay in the South and block once and for all the tragic emigration of our young people, who leave not out of delight or choice, but out of necessity, their land and their families. It is no longer an economic issue, but an ethical issue and the dignity of people. Everything else is a frame, pleasant outline for a picture that unfortunately continues to remain sadly empty. In the light of these considerations and of the fact that we have always been unheard of with regard to any specific issue relating to the South that we wanted to bring to the attention, our Group believes that it is necessary to vote against the confidence of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u84	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the Article 1-MDP Group will vote in favour of confidence in this measure, but a vote which does not hide a certain disappointment, and not because there are no good provisions in the Decree-Law, which, moreover, with our amendments, have helped to improve, but because behind the very promising title of "Expensive provisions for the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno" there is in fact a set of rules that have the main defect of not being able to outline a plan, a vision for the development of the Mezzogiorno. These are non-organic and non-organic standards with what already exists on the territory of the Southern regions of the country. Among the positive provisions, I would like - for example - to mention the establishment of the Special Economic Zones (SEZs), which aim to attract, with tax benefits and other benefits, investments around the ports of the South, potentially creating new employment opportunities. There are also other provisions, to which we have contributed with our amendments, for which there are still elements of dissatisfaction. I would like to give two examples: we have proposed and obtained, for the measure Rest in the South, which is one of the flag measures of the measure, an increase to EUR 50,000 in the provision of funding for each individual applicant. On the other hand, we have not been able to obtain the extension, in homogeneity with what already provided for other articles of the decree-law, the age of young people who will have access to the benefit, bringing the maximum limit from thirty-five to forty years. However, the proposal "I remain in the South" of support for young entrepreneurs is largely a duplication of forms of contribution that already today the Regions are able to provide through their calls and that are often even more generous. The risk is, therefore, to put in place procedures that are certainly expensive and complex from an administrative point of view in order to distribute the same resources without guarantee of obtaining a better effectiveness and without an appreciable effort to direct them, as some regional calls begin to do, to innovative sectors that can have a role of driving the economic development of the South more tangible. The second example is that a fair investment is made in the reuse of abandoned lands and abandoned goods, and we have kept this happening in accordance with the rules on urban planning for the built up areas. But this measure has unfortunately not been accompanied by an appropriate environmental reclamation and redevelopment plan and there is therefore a strong risk of leaving things in half. As always unfortunately happens, also this decree-law has embarked, in addition to a number of localistic norms, in the old logic of the assault on diligence, some heterogeneous norms that concern issues of great scope, which should instead be addressed with a greater possibility of comparison with the stakeholders also in the Commissions of merit. For example, major changes have been introduced in the funding criteria for universities, especially with regard to the equalization criteria that revolve around the concept of standard cost. These changes are not limited to responding to an emergency certainly linked to the well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court, but redesign these instruments for the years to come. Not the context on the subject, but the context of extemporaneousness. They should have been built with dedicated measures, to be discussed in the Commissions of merit, with a careful intercourse with the university; a method by which the difficulties of the universities of the South could have been better dealt with in a difficult and deserted context. The decree-law, then, does not address a central theme that must soon be included in the government agenda, namely the modernisation of public administration and the investment in the better functioning of public services, so as to fill those gaps that are no longer eligible for local transport, for example, childcare and elderly services, school and hospital construction, urban regeneration. In particular, efforts must be made to remove the reasons that lead to a health migration leading to a hemorrhaging of hundreds of millions - 800 in the last year - from the regions of the South; resources that, if spent on the spot, could have a positive impact not only - of course - on the well-being of citizens, but also on the local economy. Investing in these areas - modernising public administration and improving the functioning of public services - would mean overturning the logic of many interventions in the South, and not dispensing favors but making rights payable. On these grounds the challenge for us in Article 1 remains all to play. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u87	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the particular emphasis which the Minister wished to place on his reply to the debate on the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno does not conceal the difficulty of being able to talk about its contents, which are absolutely miserable and insignificant, which will in no way reverse that absolutely negative trend relating to the development of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Among other things, a particular and unfortunate circumstance captures the Minister in the seat of the Senate of the Republic in the forty-eight hours in which we will vote - I also believe with the system of vote of confidence - the so-called decree banks. There is one detail that has not yet emerged in the general debate and not even in the explanations of vote that preceded me. The decree banks, necessary to save two banks, previews a financial cover of 17 billion euros: 5 of cash money and 12 under guarantee. The decree-law to our examination, which presumptuously bears in its title the desire to link the development of the Mezzogiorno to the economic recovery, does not even allocate an extra euro for this purpose. It concerns only the remodulation of sums already allocated to the Mezzogiorno of Italy, which are reprogrammed and reallocated according to other purposes. In practice, this Government, the present Gentiloni Silveri, and the previous Renzi, who had carried out their programming for the Mezzogiorno, feel the need, and they do so through this measure, to move and alter some expenses. But how can you say that this government cares about overcoming the southern issue? You even quote the birth and development of the southern issue in our country when you are not willing to invest a single additional euro on this big issue. And then you do it clumsy: if in Article 6 of this decree-law you feel the need to intervene in order to make the development pacts more effective and easier, pacts that you signed in the electoral campaign for the referendum with the individual Regions; and, if just eight months after the signing of those pacts, you feel the need to introduce new rules to speed up expenditure, self-declare your inability to understand what mechanisms are to free public spending for the benefit of investments and, therefore, of new employment. And you yourself say that, because the Minister, who wanted to quote the 2015 data and the research institute SVIMEZ, does not remember what the SVIMEZ itself says about the year 2015: the territorial breakdown of capital expenditure, the one for which the State, based on the number of inhabitants, is committed to investing in infrastructure activities, imposed that 34 percent of capital expenditure should go to the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Well, in 2015, quoted by the Minister for rhetorical purposes, only to make a small cultural dissertation that has no anchor with the territorial reality, the distribution covered the Mezzogiorno for just 21.4%. And the same SVIMEZ had hoped, for a resumption of the Mezzogiorno and the national economy - the development of the Mezzogiorno is necessary precondition for the development of the entire country - that the distribution would be increased to 45%. So, Minister De Vincenti, if you haven't understood it yet, you are the Minister for the Mezzogiorno in this Government, and that cannot simply mean obeying a decree-law to go and cover this or that breach. It means making the Mezzogiorno an organic issue in the policies of the country. It means not to be visionary - as he has shown to be in his reply - but to have a vision of the overall development of the Country and the Mezzogiorno. It means not only identifying the infrastructure, both tangible and intangible, which are fundamental for the growth of a territory, but also defining in a horizontal way all the policies of the Government, from the social to the economic ones, from the infrastructural ones to the school ones, with the objective of overcoming the gap that weighs on the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Therefore, it has no meaning for you to call for strong governance on the ground, when with your actions you deny what you proclaim in words. You speak of a strong g overnance, based on a new and strong synergy between the central government and the regions, but you further sank, if ever needed, the programming capacity of the regional territories. You had a right intuition: with the pacts with the Regions you had to have an overall view of all the funding that went to affect a territory, but the next day you killed them with your wretched, small cabins of direction and organization. You have occupied the structures of the Ministry and regional programming with an infinite number of local authorities and discussion committees, in which, among other things, you undertake to participate as Minister, thus transforming them into not technical and operational direction cabins, but political. I imagine you in these directing booths that meets the Presidents of the Region - very often, unfortunately, they belong to your own political party - to do there your beautiful party meetings, instead of looking with coldness, ability to synthesis and intervention to the technical measures necessary to release the expense. You are the absolute failure even in the context of minimum programming. What do you say? You came to this House this morning - and here we are in the national Parliament and you have the duty of truth - to tell us that expenditure has developed in the pacts. You must come to Parliament and say that the pacts, since they were signed, have not developed any additional expenditure, because in them you have included public works that, having already known their start, had already begun to realize their expenditure. And, compared to the new works included in the regional pacts, however, not one has managed to leave; not one has managed to take the first steps to start new realizations. Your programming and your idea of the Mezzogiorno are only pauperistic. Yours is perhaps the idea of a Mezzogiorno that is maintained only as a large consumer market, as long as there will be those wretched energies to achieve consumption itself. However, you do not have confidence in the new generations and in the capacity and will of the citizens, who are denied the tools to implement their capacity for growth. That's why you don't deserve anything. For this reason you are the real incendiaries, from the moral point of view, of the souls of the Mezzogiorno of Italy that, with the decree-law under consideration, will feel even more mocked by a national government, which warns more and more far away and more enemy. It will be that same people who sweep you out of the Government of the Nation, because you have shown neither ability, nor courage, but above all you have not shown love for the idea of national unity, which is cultivated and built through the feeling of each citizen's adherence to the national state structure. For this reason, convincedly and with pain, because we feel the sense of a wasted opportunity and lost time, we will not give confidence to the Government, because it does not deserve it, and we will not give the vote in favour of the decree-law in question, which in some respects is just a lost opportunity for our Southern Italy. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u90	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, first of all, the question of trust put by the Government on the decree-law under consideration - in our view - is entirely motivated and has been made inevitable by the parliamentary process of the measure. Support measures are, in fact, a priority of government action and the effectiveness of such measures presupposes that the measure is not distorted by changes without a systemic and strategic horizon. And this condition has been guaranteed and maintained and I thank the Minister for his words towards the Parliamentary Commission of which I am a member, because indeed the work carried out, despite the play of the parties between the majority and the opposition, has certainly been positive and has improved the text submitted to our vote of confidence today. The economic data confirm a recovery in the Mezzogiorno, started in 2015 after seven consecutive years of decline in GDP, with an increase in the added value in the industry greater in the South than the national average - this must be reiterated - and a relative increase in employment also in the South, on the basis of the expansion mainly of the service sector. The Italian GDP growth forecasts are 1.3% in 2017 and 1.1% in 2018 and therefore fall within a multiannual framework of moderate but continuous consolidation, to which - in our opinion - a significant contribution is made in the expansion of investment expenditure, especially in the last two years. The Mezzogiorno follows these economic figures, obviously not to such an extent as to reduce, unfortunately, the gap with the rest of the country, and at the level of employment it is confirmed, especially in some sectors, in a worse situation than the rest of the country. The decree-law under consideration, therefore, served and serves precisely to address these nodes. In fact, the rebalancing of weak and strong areas calls into question the objectives of industrial policy, access to credit for businesses and households, access to the labour market, the fight against poverty indices, which remain significant in the Mezzogiorno, and a growth in GDP which does not correspond to a similar reduction in unemployment. The measures contained in the measure, thanks also to the amendments mentioned above that have been approved in the Commission, are - in our view - very significant and go in this direction. These measures will strengthen the growth, employment and revitalization of the territory of the regions concerned. The measures are aimed mainly at young people, such as the "Resto al Sud" (Resto al Sud), who provide particularly advantageous conditions for young people under 35 to start a business or to promote the generational shift in agriculture in the Mezzogiorno through a specific allocation of EUR 50 million from the Development and Cohesion Fund (FSC). The development of areas for industrial, craft and agricultural use - we think, for example, of the establishment of the abandoned land bank - is crucial to us, as are the measures envisaged to make a radical change in the use of the European Structural Funds on the basis of government programmes. It is clear that there is also a need for a strong responsibility of local administrations. They are macro-areas and there are, moreover, more stringent constraints on the objectives to be achieved, precisely because of the responsibility that was said before. The establishment of special economic zones with a common functional denominator that avoids an ineffective fragmentation of resources and interventions appears - in our opinion - among the most qualified and anticipated points of the measure, in order - for example - to modernise infrastructure networks. The forecast of tax benefits and simplification measures for these areas therefore assumes a systemic value, as well as the actions planned to affect the situations of corporate crisis or sector. The measure also contains measures to encourage regional arrangements to provide local authorities with financial spaces for investments and measures to facilitate the completion of infrastructure projects. In this regard, I would like to extend special thanks to the Government and the Commission for having approved the amendment by our parliamentary group which allows the local authorities to use the auction rates for the financing of infrastructure. In fact, local authorities will be able to have more time to re-determine the economic framework of the work in order to be able to use, within the framework of the work, possible auctions, before these resources become budgetary savings and, therefore, are no longer usable to finance the work itself. The text before us then intervenes with specific measures on the problem of arson forest fires. As we know, in recent times entire areas of different regions have been devastated. We therefore welcome the fact that the text has dealt with this problem, including measures to strengthen measures to combat the phenomenon and to prevent the exploitation of burnt land. No less important - in our opinion - is the framework of the measures provided for in the Decree-Law on combating educational poverty and the school system in the Mezzogiorno. With youth unemployment at 56.3% and 1,800,000 young people who do not have employment and do not follow any training course, this remains the main reason for the structural crisis that we urgently need to face. As far as universities are concerned, in order to remain in the field of knowledge, we can only express our appreciation for the adoption of the amendment transposing the content of the agenda that our Group tabled on the occasion of the adoption of the so-called maneuverina. The agenda, which had been accepted by the Government, undertook it to provide, with a specific rule, for several universities to be allocated to the ordinary funding fund for the other universities already benefiting from it. The text of Article 12a fully incorporates the content of our agenda and for this reason we thank the Government and the majority for having thus dissipated any interpretational doubt - there were - in this matter. I mentioned only a few of the measures contained in the decree-law, but there are also others that deserve to be reported. I am referring to those dedicated to Ilva and to reclamation operations, to those concerning the strengthening of the safety of historic centres, to the "premium" measures for municipalities engaged in reception and integration, to all those planned for the areas affected by the earthquake, which have been mentioned in the various interventions. Finally, I cannot fail to mention an important measure concerning civil protection and the voluntary bodies of the Fire Departments, as well as their Unions. In this respect, it has been made more clear that they are not instrumental institutions and, therefore, the new accounting mechanisms do not apply, because for volunteers it would have been unreasonable and sensible. In this case, too, we express particular satisfaction with the adoption of this provision, since civil protection and, above all, the Voluntary Firefighters' Corps should be encouraged. In our view, this is a well-packaged package of measures and we hope that it will actually help recovery in the Mezzogiorno. In conclusion, the Autonomy Group will vote in favour of the issue of trust. We believe that, with a view to the success of the measures to be taken, a question must be asked and, above all, an urgent consideration must be given to how to intervene in a productive way in support of families. From this point of view, we are very concerned about the social issue, particularly in the South. Therefore, in anticipation of the next budget law, it is clear that we must go far beyond the interventions already begun and confirmed in the decree-law in question - they must be reiterated and strengthened - and, in the possible terms in relation to the objectives of public finance, we must address what appears to us the most critical issue, namely the reduction of the tax wedge, in order to recreate, from the social and generational point of view, the conditions for a new pact of confidence. What we want to propose to Parliament and in particular to the Government is to use this instrument that is expected next autumn, especially to renew a strong pact of trust between the institutions and citizens. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u93	GUALDANI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that I must mention what I have heard Members say in this House. My political side must thank the successive governments, because perhaps they easily forget the fact that we have taken a country on its knees, with very negative data. The Minister of the Interior is even here. In recent years there have been events such as earthquakes and invasions of migrants, which we are trying to resolve by working with great enthusiasm. I am therefore proud to belong to this political area that is strongly changing Italy, bringing with great difficulty economic activity from a negative sign to a positive sign. We are called to vote on the government's confidence in a decree-law that is a very long-awaited measure by our Mezzogiorno and provides concrete answers to the many needs of our young people. It has the ambition to revive the economy of the Mezzogiorno and to significantly reduce the gap between North and South of our country. In the decree-law are contained instruments aimed at strengthening and consolidating the growth that the Mezzogiorno has recorded in recent months and to counter the exodus towards the North and to the foreign countries of children of southern origin. Perhaps the most important of these instruments is the one called "Resto al Sud" (Resto al Sud), i.e. the opportunity for young people under the age of thirty-five to start an entrepreneurial activity in the regions of the Mezzogiorno, by financing up to a maximum of 50,000 euros for each applicant, with a non-refundable share and another in the form of a zero-rate loan. In this respect, I would like to thank Minister De Vincenti, who has received an invitation from the majority, but also from the opposition, to change some important parameters. It seems absolutely the right way to revive the South, create jobs and new prospects for young people and offer them the opportunity to bet on their skills and quality, to be the creators of their future. This will create a virtuous circle that will contribute to the revival of the territory, transforming the problems of its land into real opportunities for growth and concretely exploiting the enormous potentials that the South contains in itself, but which unfortunately remain all too often only on paper. I would also like to point out that the Decree-Law provides for the possibility of creating special economic zones (SEZs) in the regions of the Mezzogiorno, where companies will find fertile ground for birth and development, through the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and the tax advantages on investments. It is an instrument of primary importance and proven effectiveness, which has also been the subject of my own bill. In the budget commission - as already mentioned - small but fundamental correctives have been introduced in order to assure a strategic and coordinated vision of the ZES and to allow, under certain conditions, the establishment of these areas also in the Regions that do not have ports connected to the trans-European net. The decree-law addresses in several passages the issue of simplifications: simplifications of administrative and procedural type, which certainly pertain to the process and the relationship between enterprises and public administration, but also to the relationship in the institutional chain. Often, the various institutional levels include elements of friction that do not help the decision-making processes or the best and most effective use of the same public resources. This is done in the field of environment and waste and financial standards between regions and local authorities. To get the South back to running, we need the leverage of technological development. Also for this reason the measure extends the deadline to take advantage of the benefits of the hyper depreciation of the 2017 Budget Law for high-tech investments, until September of next year. The Industry 4.0 Plan is beginning to give the hoped-for exploits and the enhancement of its tools is definitely a further positive news. The parliamentary examination has strengthened the contents of the decree-law, has perfected some aspects of it and enriched it with extremely important measures: I think of the intervention to counter the serious incendiary practices and the realization of an automatic system for the holding of the flows of goods in the historical centers, consisting in realizing an ulterior module of the national logistic platform digital, able to create a virtual fence based on a system of accreditations for all the heavy means going out and entering the historical center. We have also intervened by assigning important financial resources to the provinces and regions affected by the earthquake, both to allow a rapid removal of the rubble, and to the allocation of financial spaces to the affected municipalities in relation to the administrative surpluses, for investments related to the recovery and installation of public buildings and infrastructure. The attention to the areas affected by the earthquake is also reflected in the measures for the course of the school year 2016-2017 and in the appropriation to secure the Park Road. 90 million in three years are allocated for the restructuring and the security of judicial structures in Campania, Puglia, Calabria and Sicily in order to allow the full functionality of the judicial system in those Regions and to ensure that the garrisons of fight against illegality are put in condition to be fully operational. We have also made provision for research to combat the spread of the xylosandrus compactus beetle and the annoying xylella beetle. But in the field of agriculture there are many other innovations: young farmers will be able to access the measure "Resto al Sud" (Resto al Sud); abandoned land, after reconnaissance of the municipality, can be reassigned for a new employment through projects of valorization and reuse. Finally, farms that have suffered damage also due to the exceptional prolonged drought of this season will be able to access the resources already allocated by Decree-Law No 8 of 2017. In addition, the criteria for repartitioning the state university fund are renewed: with the new parameters, perfected also in the referent, it allows the universities of the South to be recognized an amount of resources appropriate to the economic and social situations, very often critical compared to the rest of the country, in which they carry out their activities. Finally, I recall the intervention that allocates the advanced resources following the completion of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria precisely to the remaining Calabrian road network, which constitutes the functional connection to the first. To conclude, we are faced with a measure rich in terms of themes, available financial resources and new proposals to give even more impetus to the recovery of the Mezzogiorno. I would like to thank all the members of the Budget Commission, the Government and the rapporteurs for the very valuable work of enriching the content, the result of a constant commitment. This is the second heavy measure specifically dedicated to the South launched by this Government, a sign that the attention is maximum and the message to the southern citizens and to all the others is clear: the only possible way for the definitive relaunch of our country is to put back the engine of the Mezzogiorno back to speed and to share all together. Mr President, we are confident that Decree-Law No 91 represents a further part of this process and that is why we are announcing the positive vote of the Alternative Popular Group. [[Applause from Senators Dalla Tor and Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u96	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we believe that the great open questions and the long-standing problems that have been afflicting the Mezzogiorno for many decades would need a very different approach from that of the decree-law under discussion, which, in our opinion, contains fragile and evanescent interventions, which seek an easy consensus on the basis of the titles of the headings, rather than on a strategic and broad vision - what would be needed - and on an indication of adequate resources. We believe that an overall vision, capable of setting the energies of our Mezzogiorno in motion, certainly through effective interventions in the immediate future, but also - if we may say so - with a long-term vision, in order to try to get the entire society and the southern economy to hang up at least the minimum standards that exist in the rest of the country. Instead, as has often happened over the past few years, you respond with emerging tools, real commercials, ads more than resources. On the other hand, concrete indications would be needed, capable of intervening in particular on the real chasm that is youth unemployment, which for a long time has involved and hits the Mezzogiorno of the country. We believe that the substantive measures provided for in this decree-law, which should promote southern youth entrepreneurship, for example the measure called "Resto al Sud" (remaining in the South), imagined in the framework of actions for urban regeneration and for the safety of the suburbs, do not adequately fulfil their role and are not sufficient to affect such a complex reality. Moreover, these are measures without certain coverage because, as we know, there is no explicit exclusion of the allocations already arranged by the CIPE with a previous resolution. The very creation of low-investment youth micro-enterprises, which could form the basis of a policy capable of relaunching development and restarting the processes of virtuous growth in the Mezzogiorno, only works if this productive development has the possibility to rely on the ability to exploit the wider set of resources and opportunities present in each local area. In short, priority should be given to revitalising the territory rather than adapting buffer measures and thus creating the conditions for an enterprise to be located in a given geographical area taking into account all the material and intangible collective goods that favour the economy. From this point of view, we think we can say that even the individual funding envisaged (i.e. EUR 40,000) is really too limited to give impetus to the creation of companies with some form of economic importance. What about Article 3 of the measure and, in our view, the too limited scope of measures to facilitate youth entrepreneurship in agriculture? Some measures are introduced in the context of the bank of abandoned or uncultivated land, and measures for the valorization of unused assets, which include the extension of the measures of "Resto al Sud" also to commercial and tourist activities, if these activities fall within the areas specifically identified in the municipalities. But it is clear that this measure is improperly defined as intervention for agriculture, as it encourages land use, not to revitalize agricultural crops, but for merely receptive or commercial purposes. In short, these are just a few examples to say that, in our opinion, a great opportunity has been lost to intervene in the context of the measures planned for agriculture in the southern regions, because the measures are, in fact, far below the minimum necessary level of intervention. As we know, the problem of the abandonment of land and the closure of a large number of farms is a very important issue for the whole of the southern economy. However, in the decree-law, in order to attack these open aspects, there are, in our opinion, insufficient instruments. On the other hand, a sectoral plan and the financing of specific measures for farms operating in the Mezzogiorno should be approved. We have raised the question, which is no less important in our opinion, of respect for the existing archaeological and landscape constraints: that of considering the importance of the serious phenomenon of the caporalate in the southern regions, thus providing for the inclusion in the contracts of concession or lease of a clause rescissory in the event that the beneficiary of abandoned or uncultivated land incurs in the crimes of exploitation of the labour. Of course, we have been very busy with our group over the course of these weeks with the serious affair that is affecting the country: I am referring to the so-called forest fires. We consider the measure provided for in the measure insufficient and unable to prevent enough events which, on the other hand, are very often widely foreseeable and which, in our view, however, have not been given any adequate preventive response. We would also like to add that the economic and social imbalance of the Mezzogiorno in some way lives mainly with respect to the infrastructural gap or the more complex geographical conformation of some areas. It strikes and surprises, for example, in the decree-law, how, in the indication of the criteria of the standard costs for the financing of the universities, the less attractive ability of several southern universities connected to the infrastructural deficiencies of logistics regarding the rest of the Peninsula is not taken into account. Again, there is yet another intervention on the ILVA that indicates the use of resources for the implementation and implementation of restoration and environmental reclamation interventions. Of course, it is an absolutely fair question, if it were not, however, that the dispute ILVA risks ending in a dramatic way with thousands of redundancies for the employees of the company. We believe, and have always believed, in the political action that we have carried out over all these years, that environmental rehabilitation, which is an absolute priority, must go hand in hand with the awareness that it is impossible for redundancies to take place clearly with a very large social difficulty. In short, to conclude, we can argue that it really seems to us that we have decided to intervene in this decree-law in a confused, fragmented way, with adopted measures that are very far from being, instead, that structural and programmatic intervention that would serve. Moreover, this is the great theme of reflection that today goes through the best southernist thought, the one that, for many years now, calls for structural responses, in the face of obvious and obviously structural issues and open and structural nodes, which, on the other hand, are still lacking. We believe we can say that we are continuing along the same lines of economic policy as the previous government: the measures are aimed at promoting supply, support for the company and tax benefits. All these things have already been seen, when the South needs demand-oriented economic policies and in favour of workers and public investment in infrastructure adjustment. We really believe that those rights of citizenship that should be guaranteed in a uniform manner throughout the national territory see this critical element. We also believe that the whole issue of the use of the Structural Funds should at least be framed in a broader way, so as to ensure that these funds may not be a substitute for extraordinary State intervention. I think I can say, not simply as a senator belonging to my parliamentary group, but also as a southern senator, that for all these reasons, the vote of the Italian Left - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group can only be against. The vote will of course be against the question of trust for political reasons (as well known, for our opposition to the current government), but also because in the substance of the measure we feel many elements of distance and very little sharing of the fundamental choice that has been adopted. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u99	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, the South is as always a great springboard for electoral propaganda. It is not for nothing that the measure under consideration was created as a matter of urgency just before the local elections and was launched as a manna from heaven to solve all the problems of the South. I am from the South and I am witnessing these electoral campaigns ordained by parliamentary colleagues who come from all political forces - from the Democratic Party to Forza Italia, to the New Right Center - who periodically parade, near the stations, in different places in the South to claim a high-speed train that does not arrive or the superfast route. They are there, next to the citizens and small entrepreneurs who would like the infrastructure worthy of our country, because the South is still part of Italy. Then, however, the sit-ins and articles in the newspapers with headlines of the great MPs of the Democratic Party, of Forza Italia, of the New Right Centro and so on are broken against the votes. In fact, it is worth remembering that if between 2009 and 2015 you had respected a parameter that was given to you, that is to reserve at least 30% of the ordinary investments to the South, then we would have halved - I say "we would" because I am of the South, I repeat - that loss that has now put the South on its knees. Today, in fact, the South almost no longer breathes. I'm shocked. It is clear that we will say no to confidence for a number of reasons which do not only concern the merits of the measure. How do we set up the EEZ by providing that all the criteria, conditions of benefit and all the economic actors involved will then be the subject of a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers? Basically, we don't know anything about what's going to happen, and the ZES could be prey to who knows who, the multinationals. Well, our craftsmen, our small local businesses, our local manufacturing and our agriculture certainly do not need this. I would remind you that I have tabled an agenda which called for the ban on the treatment, disposal and storage of municipal waste, the production and storage of radioactive materials and the production of products using polluting chemicals in the ZES. What does the government do in the person of Minister De Vincenti? He spoke against a simple agenda. But then the President says that it seems that we want to pollute and, then, the agenda is accepted as a recommendation because who knows then what you want to do with it. It would have been more honest to delegate to the Government, listening to Parliament in a constructive way. Especially when it comes to this kind of decree-law, there are lobbyists outside the door. In this case, the lobbyist on duty, the one who was most loyal to duty, who was here constantly, who contacted everyone, including me, was the official of Invitalia. This official will have done the same with all of you: he will have stopped you to tell you that he follows you, that you are so good, prepared and competent that you will only want to do the good of the country, especially of the South. He said to me: Senator, I know you're from the South, and you want to do the good of the Mezzogiorno. You think I also met Beppe Grillo on the plane, so we're all one. However, we have tabled some amendments, including one that was truly common sense, signed by Senator Sergio Puglia, in which it was proposed that it was not only Invitalia who did the practices, that it did not necessarily have this autonomy and this exclusive. But then comes, at the last moment, the Government's amendment, in which it is said that the percentage perceived by Invitalia on the basis of the convention could be tripled, from 1% to 3%. This is because the official was there to ask for it, because, poor man, it was not enough for 1% out of 1.25 billion, but it wanted 3% and these sums were still taken from the Development and Cohesion Fund for young people in the South. However, we cannot forget that those famous MPs of the Democratic Party, of Forza Italia, of the New Right Centre who come to pick under the prefectures next to the citizens, then they are the ones who vote for the use of those same funds to restore and smooth out budgetary imbalances, because very often they "pick" themselves precisely from the funds for cohesion and development, which are "munted" slowly like a cow and then emptied. This is what happens and that has also happened to the South, I repeat for the umpteenth time. I am tired of hearing you say that you have finally introduced structural decontribution for young people in the South, because you have actually taken away that decontribution, which was actually also intended for young unemployed people in the North and for all craft enterprises. Every year you are there, behind the journalists of "Il Sole 24 Ore" which is the newspaper of Confindustria, who ask you about the decontribution and you omit to say that you have taken it away and you have made it by taking money also from the funds for cohesion and development, disassembling the South. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi.]] That's what you have to say. You've drawn 3.5 billion from those funds. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] I don't even want to talk about all the announcements you've made over the years about programming, reprogramming and overprogramming always with the same money, as if there were some big treasures. What treasures are there? Come to the South, Renzi comes, De Vincenti comes, but De Vincenti comes to the South to sponsor TAP. TAP doesn't want anyone here, because that's not development, it's degradation of the territory, just to make an incision. What we want is another development, because our businesses are artisans, they are agricultural and they do not need that devastation. The South is mainly made of tourism, and you are devastating it, with the excuse of development. There is also one measure that I believe has offended everyone, and I think that the Members who voted for it have also been offended. I am referring to Senator Sposetti's amendment, which calls for EUR 350,000 to celebrate Gramsci. With all due respect for the latter, I believe that writing 'in', particularly in the midday regions, is absurd. At this point, the Members of Parliament and the President of the Budget Committee and Mr De Vincenti, if these EUR 350 000 are allocated, we ask them to know where they go, who spends them, to do what and how effective they get. Let's go to another marchetta. Especially in Puglia, we have the problem of xylella, as well as that of the pepper beetle, there are these parasites that run around a little everywhere, and then there are all these amendments, tabled by all the Groups, each of which asks for five million euros, one million euros, 50,000 euros, without any programming. So come the government and the speakers, make a mix and give the conspiracy. And that's why 200,000 euros were allocated to research on xylella and other pathologies, but who are we giving them to? For what and for what goals to be pursued? No one. These are marcettes. They are again counseling friends, what you wanted to do with Invitalia from 1% to 3%. It is always the same system, the same mechanism: money is given in such a way that these same parliamentarians will go to their territories to say that they have managed to get 200,000 euros to solve the problem of xylella. We've been chasing the xylella problem for ten years. In the meantime, we have farmers who no longer know how to move in this context because they do not really know who to believe anymore. The research, on the other hand, is amputated and is given in part, unfortunately, also to individuals who do their own interests and the problem has not been solved; so we continue to give money to the South to do nothing but cultivate the electoral basin. These measures are all ineffective, we have already tried them. For example, we know the loan of honor. Let's go give money to the poor young people who can't find a job and who then, when they stay out of funding, since they're in a desert where there's no infrastructure, there's no investment and they don't have a chance to grow, they shut down their business. But those young people must remain in poverty because, when there are local, regional and political elections, they will be able to promise, always to those young people in the South, a job place, maybe for six months. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I can promise you the shopping envelope so you free will never be and vote for me because this is the policy made in this decree-law. I am shocked that the speakers Tomaselli and Vicari are two people from the South, one from Brindisi and the other Sicilian, and that they did not have the strength to raise their heads in front of this commodity because the South is poor, left in misery, but has dignity; it is industrious and it is made of decent people who want to work. Then don't think about the South anymore, free him that's better. He's better off alone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u102	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, our vote against this measure is not only due to some of the measures contained in it. It seems to us that what is lacking is an analysis of the current economic and productive situation in the Mezzogiorno and, therefore, a coherent framework of measures to encourage the sectors in which the Mezzogiorno has the best development potential. It is quite clear that if we do not consider that today's agriculture in the Mezzogiorno is an imposing productive sector that every day occupies tens of thousands of workers, moreover many immigrants with all that follows, and we do not raise the problem of a development of that great agriculture with a real connection with the large distribution, with the big markets and therefore with a strategic improvement of that sector, we do not deal with the economic and productive situation of the Mezzogiorno. If, in other words, those enormous agricultural productions are not offered some serious idea to put them in contact with the great world markets, well, there is no idea of what can be done for the Mezzogiorno. The same goes for fishing. These are indeed huge concentrations of employment as well. Sometimes I hear about problems which, because of their impact on the Mezzogiorno, especially in terms of employment, are not the very driving factors for those lands. It should be borne in mind that today when we talk about agriculture - I say something that of course does not escape anyone - we are talking about interesting technological processes that certainly affect most of those young people who, on the other hand, continue to emigrate. This is another of the real plagues of the Mezzogiorno and there is nothing in this measure to at least settle the problem and try to find a solution. There is no trace of this which, in my opinion, is the true current scourge of the Mezzogiorno of Italy: the enormous migration of young brains that produces an obvious disaster. We form them and then go abroad to give how much better their young and great energies can give. There is nothing in the provision for these major problems to be dealt with in a structural way. It is clear that there is a connection between them, because if we want to develop agriculture and fisheries seriously, we need adequate training structures; if we want to transform these sectors into a thriving economic sector, we need a policy that opens up to the markets and places the problem of how and where to place our products in economically profitable terms. China is constantly opening streets and all of them flow exactly into the Mezzogiorno of Italy. The history of the ports, those who call the new streets of silk, arrives in Piraeus. Who knows that the port of Piraeus has continuous and immediate contacts with the entire Adriatic, knows that there is a strategic question that - in my opinion - must be exploited by Italy precisely for the new and great opportunities that offers the development of these new lands of the world. Instead, what do we find within this provision? We find the measure Rest to the South which consists in the granting of a financing of EUR 40,000 for the start-up of new enterprises in the Mezzogiorno. Of these EUR 40,000 35%, i.e. EUR 13,500, are lost, while the remaining EUR 26,500 are a loan to be repaid and for which there are guarantees. But I wonder: what does a young man do with 40,000 euros? Gentlemen, we do not have the illusion of having before us the genius of those who make the world go forward, as happened, to make a well-known example, in the case of many entrepreneurial initiatives developed in Silicon Valley, California. For those initiatives there is no need for a lira, because they are the fruit of intellectual energies, but when those intellectual energies become productive process and enterprise in the strict sense, certainly 40,000 euros of capital cannot act as an incentive. By transferring this reasoning to any other sector, such as agriculture, fishing or a mechanical company, what can be done with 40,000 euros? I believe that these measures are not intended for success. If there had been an underlying analysis, funding would probably have been lower in number and higher in size, or differentiated according to the target production sector. So the design seems to me to be completely uneven. The same applies to agricultural incentives which suffer exactly the same problem. The same issue of the Special Economic Zones is a novelty introduced by the Government and on which I agree historically. It is good to have introduced it, but even here the size is not such as to allow such areas to become real poles of attraction of investments. This is the reflection that I submit to you and that today does not allow us to give a positive assessment of this measure, which we also share in its inspiration. Or this becomes a model of development and therefore engages the best economic forces of the nation - and then this makes sense - otherwise we have situations in which we cannot compete with the development that other special economic zones have at this time, even in territories very close to Italy. Mr Minister, the scale of the measures does not seem to us to be sufficient for the construction of real small hubs of entry and export of goods, with the related working consequences, which could constitute a flywheel of development for the Mezzogiorno of Italy, precisely because of its geographical and geopolitical location. For the rest there are the usual measures. For Ilva, it is good that there has been the imprisonment of one billion and 200 million, by the State, which is destined for environmental reclamation: in the Commission it has been discussed and the Minister has been on time in this regard. I wonder, however, what is behind this project, for what was the steel industry. As is well known, the issues are still all standing and nothing is said in this decree-law that is not about the use of resources for environmental reclamation. This is right and all right, but in a decree-law on the Mezzogiorno it is necessary to say what the Government is committed to the future of what was Europe's largest iron and steel plant. In the decree-law under consideration there is no word about those who participated and won the ban and about the issues that are all standing. I think, however, that this should have been the appropriate forum to address these issues. In short, analyzing the whole of the decree-law, it seems to me that the nature of our negative consideration and our negative vote lies here, that is, in the idea that the Mezzogiorno of Italy reappears somewhere - and I have the feeling that the Government had the idea that it should reappear - and this is a good thing, but it is an evil the way in which it reappeared, which seems to us deeply insufficient. Or a measure on the Mezzogiorno is fed by a debate, which the Government then translates into measures and sources of financing for those measures, in a conspicuous, modern way, that take on the basis of the true entrepreneurial vocations of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, or we will continue to crouch. In conclusion, it is true that Italy is growing, but the two problems that characterize us continue to exist in full. Italy grows less than other countries and the Mezzogiorno of Italy grows less than Italy. I have seen many analyses consider a small sector or someone who has gone better, but those who live there every day know that this is exactly how things are and that the young brains that emigrate depopulate the Mezzogiorno of Italy and strip it of the best that there is and, on the other hand, what there is is not valorized to attract those energies in the market and to allow those services and those products to express the best of themselves, in the new international context in which we live. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u105	TONINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow Senators, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno, which Minister De Vincenti first explained with great depth and, of course, will vote in favour of the question of trust, which the Government has put significantly on the measure under consideration. The Government is aware that a fundamental part of its action lies in the success of a strategy to relaunch development and employment in the Mezzogiorno. Over the past few weeks, positive economic signals have multiplied that patient and tenacious work, carried out in the years of this legislature, is beginning to bear fruit. The results on the turnover of the industry that ISTAT published yesterday are extraordinarily positive: the trend recorded a plus 7.6 percent, year by year (month of May 2017 on month of May 2016). This 7.6 percent is the result of an average growth in the internal market of 6.7% and exports of 9.3 percent. There is an Italian industrial system that is back in motion. This is now a fact because these analyses are being repeated. There is GDP growth. All national and international observers have corrected the upward estimates. Do you remember when we were used to correcting downwards because the government was, at other times, always overly optimistic? This time the opposite is happening. Each time estimates are corrected upwards. Now we are, by consensus widely shared among all observers, at 1.4% and it is not said that before the end of the year we will not have a further positive surprise. There is not only quantitative growth in production and income because there is also an interesting data on the redistribution of income. It is a few weeks ago a report by ISTAT that shows how for the first time, after years, there has been a reversal of the trend in the growth of inequality: inequalities have begun, even if of a few decimal places, to shrink, just as the area at risk of poverty has begun to decline. In this data there are positive data on the Mezzogiorno. It is not true that we are still in the trend for which the Mezzogiorno is the last car of the Italian recovery. This morning, with the intellectual honesty that we all recognize, Senator Mandelli of Forza Italia acknowledged that the data on the Mezzogiorno are also positive. Of course, this is a path which is bearing fruit and which must be consolidated. Well, this measure has been presented by the Government and has been enriched by the parliamentary work, in which the Budget Committee has succeeded in being a place of reflection, dialogue and serious debate - the Minister has acknowledged - also on the merits of the opposition representatives, who have woven with the Government and the majority a comparison of merit and not muscle. The measure aims to consolidate the development of the country through the consolidation of the development of the Mezzogiorno focusing on five factors that seem to me the ingredients of an innovative strategy that, in some ways, also has characteristics of experimentality; but reformism is also experimenting with new ways and measuring results and correcting what does not work to improve it. We've done this on a lot of issues. Let's think about the chapter jobs act; there are things that worked finely and others less. Reformism dares innovation and then measures the results and, if necessary, adjusts the shot. In this decree-law there are very innovative measures and we will see the results they will give. It seems to me that the strategy points to five factors. The first is the need to foster the birth, development and spread of an entrepreneurial fabric. Development and employment make them businesses and not the Government by decree-law. And this bet on 100,000 young entrepreneurs, who are given a financial instrument to start their business, is a great civil bet, even before economic, of extraordinary importance for the Mezzogiorno. For many years we have complained that the development of the Mezzogiorno was entrusted to the great cathedrals in the desert. (16.11 a.m.) (Tonini followed). Well, now we are working precisely so that instead there is this entrepreneurial fabric, an entrepreneurial culture that, starting from the youth world, can assert itself and become an element of solidity of the development of the Mezzogiorno. All this, however, without neglecting the hard core, the strongest element of development, which is to attract large investments. This is precisely the second cornerstone of the measure, namely the establishment of the special economic zones called to attract significant investments around the ports. This is of extraordinary importance because it gives a sense of openness. Senator Azzollini used to talk about the silk route. What is this decision of the Government to try to build large investments around the ports if not the idea of making the Mezzogiorno one of the key doors for Europe? The third point is less bureaucracy, more simplification. In other words, I am referring to the whole package of rules that must help those who work in the economic sector and we know that the issue of bureaucracy in the South even more than in the North (even in the North, but in the South to a greater extent) is intertwined with corruption and evil. Therefore, the more simple life becomes from an administrative point of view, the more linear it becomes, the more investment is attracted and corruption and crime is significantly combated. The fourth point concerns human capital, to which a whole chapter is devoted, with the aim of rebalancing investment in knowledge and knowledge in favour of the Mezzogiorno. The fifth point concerns environmental resources, which must be valued because the environment is certainly one of the great and extraordinary resources of the Mezzogiorno. It is, therefore, a strategy that is all-round, breathtaking, made with humility. There is no presumption of saying that we have found the solution with capital S to the great and dramatic problems of the Mezzogiorno, but the humility of saying that we have identified some concrete ways on which to advance seriously, patience and tenacity: the ingredients that have led us to make this country make significant progress during this legislature, with the expectation and legitimate ambition of being able to make others in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u106	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u107	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,800 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 91 of 20 June 2017, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Zavoli, Pinotti, Olivero, Gualdani, Gentile, Dalla Zuanna and Minniti. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Rossi Maurizio is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Rossi Maurizio. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. Senators say yes: Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bonaiui, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasioli, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Finocchiaro, Fissore, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Gentile, Gianni, Ginetti There are no senators: Airola, Amidesi, Amoruso, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocca, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Cassinelli, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Ciampolilo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagno, Compagnone, Cotti, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, Fattori, Davio, De Crisfaro, De Petrisso, De Pietro, De Sin, De Siano, Di Maggio, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fattori, Mario, Davio, Davio, Davio, De Cario, De Cris, Floriararo, Florifaro, Flori, Flori, Flori, De Petrisso, De Petrio, De Petrisso, De Petrio (Senator Stephen says he does not take part in the vote.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,800 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 20 June 2017, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 273 Senators voting 271 Majority 136 Favorables 154 Contrari 117]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 91.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u108	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2879, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Senators, Secretary-General, the text to the attention of this House, which has already been adopted by the House, contains the two decree-laws adopted by the Government no. 89 and 99 of 2017. The Commission has not made any changes to this text. I acknowledge that all the Groups, even though they differ in orientation, have dealt with the most important issues in the awareness of a narrow process in time and limited in the possibility of making changes, as requested by the Government. (The sitting was suspended at 5.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.05 p.m.) However, thanks also to the availability of the Undersecretary Baretta, it was possible to converge on a series of agendas accepted by the Government on issues that could engage the majority, but also the entire Assembly, in the coming months. Decree-Law No 99, referring to the crisis of the Venetian banks, represents a further step towards the complete stabilisation of the Italian banking system, as the President of the Republic recalled today. The financial crisis of 2007-2010 did not substantially create excessive problems for Italian banks, as it did not deal with the consequences of the crises that had hit the business banks and those most exposed to market risk due to the collapse of stock prices. When the financial crisis hit the sovereign debt heavily and due to the exposure of Italian banks to the country due to the large volume of government bonds held, it seemed necessary to set a policy of separation between bank debt and sovereign debt. Over the same years, the economic crisis has heavily affected bank balance sheets, with the accumulation of deteriorated loans. Over the same years, some banks have experienced management behaviours that underestimate credit risk, which have contributed to deteriorating profitability and burdening their balance sheets. Finally, but not least, the profitability of the sector has narrowed, preventing the recovery of resources in order to cope with the deterioration of the budgets themselves. Since 2014, the banking union has been launched, which, as is well known, includes both a single resolution mechanism and resolution without public resources, as well as the deposit guarantee fund fed by banks. Since the end of 2015, Italy has been experimenting with three different policy options in agreement with the European authorities. The first is burden sharing with resolution, sale of the banks resolved and redemption of the holders of subordinated securities. The second is the precautionary recapitalisation with company continuity and refreshment of the holders of securities. The third is the administrative winding-up with the separation of suffering and the transfer to a third party with public resources and refreshment of creditors. And never, I say never, has been experienced the fourth case, the much feared one of the bail in. I wanted to retrace the stages of the interventions, because I believe that on each of the occasions it was done by protecting depositors, accountants, lenders and employees, with a system perspective that prevailed even when the size of the banks did not have a systemic value. If anything, it must be said that an effect of contagion has been faced that has never been concretely manifested, but that in some circumstances it could certainly appear. The question that has been asked on all three occasions is: could it be otherwise? Intellectual honesty wants to accept the different conditions given for the three cases mentioned, to understand the active role of the Government in the dialogue with the European authorities and to take into account the contribution of private bodies. On terms given, I believe that the solution brought by the decree-law is also the most suited to the purposes stated above. Moreover, the reopening of the European yard, with the proposals to amend the directive on the resolution of credit institutions and the directive on capital requirements, also bear witness to the fact that the definition of the rules of the banking system is a work in progress, in which there are no pre-constituted recipes and solutions valid for all and always. Allow me to make a brief degression to account for how the problems posed by the financial crisis have required a review of schemes and analyses that have never been questioned before. Think that in one of the most popular university manuals on banking technology, published ten years ago, therefore before the financial crisis, the definition of sovereign risk for banks was attributed exclusively to the risk of financing foreign companies or foreign States, not being considered that the risk to the bank could arise from the holding of securities of the State of residence. Returning to the Venetian banks, it is known to all, also for the findings of the two cognitive investigations conducted by the Commission, that the management of the credit presented irregularities and poor assessment of the credit risk; that the status of popular bank had sometimes favored the lack of transparency and the irresponsibility of the management groups, perceived as immovable; that the economic crisis of the territory could not fail to reflect on the budgets of the banks; that the attempts of the management to keep the bank afloat has given rise to heavy pressures on accountants and trustees for the purchase of shares for values that have then collapsed in a few months. It should be recalled that on 23 June 2017 the European Central Bank declared the two banks in a state of failure (doiling or likely to fail). On 24 June 2017, Italy notified the European Commission of the aid plan to facilitate the liquidation of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca. On 25 June 2017, the Commission approved the measures prepared by Italy and contained in the measure under consideration. The Commission also considered that these measures are in line with the European rules on State aid to banks and, in particular, with the Commission Communication of July 2013 (the Banking Communication on State aid to the banking sector), as the current holders of shares and subordinated bonds have fully contributed to the costs of recovery, thus reducing the cost of intervention for the State. Turning to the text of the measure, Article 1 identifies the scope of the measure, stating that the same regulates the initiation and conduct of the compulsory administrative winding-up of Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA and Veneto Banca, as well as the modalities and conditions of the measures in support of the measures, in accordance with the European framework on State aid. Article 2 of the measure, as a result of the positive decision of the Commission of the European Union on the measures taken by Italy to facilitate the exit from the market of Veneto Bank and Banca Popolare di Vicenza, allows the Minister of Economy and Finance, on a proposal of the Bank of Italy, to submit the two banks to compulsory administrative liquidation, providing for the transfer of the banking company or branches of it to a buyer and finally to adopt measures of public support for the aforementioned cession. Article 3 of the measure allows the commissioners appointed by the Bank of Italy to transfer the company of the Venetian banks placed in liquidation, or parts of it, to an entity selected on the basis of an open, competitive, non-discriminatory procedure of selection of the most convenient purchase offer. This subject has been identified in particular in Intesa Sanpaolo. For the sake of completeness, it should be recalled that the Bank of Italy, in the specific dossier on the crisis of the two banks, has clarified that for the choice of the contractor, following the usual indications of the European Commission, an open, competitive, non-discriminatory procedure has been started, with the help of an independent consultant chosen after a tender. A given room has been set up with the analytical data of the two banks; five banking groups and one insurance group have requested access. At the end of the period granted two binding offers were made: one of Unicredit, referring only to a very small part of the complex to be sold, and the other of Intesa Sanpaolo, which was successful. Overall, although in the very short time available, the procedure allowed potential buyers to assess whether a proposal should be made. The timing for the selection of the buyer has been conditioned, among other things, by the evolution of the negotiations on the precautionary recapitalisation project, abandoned only a few days before the start of the selection procedure. In its letter of 10 July 2017, the Competition and Market Authority considered that the sale to Banca Intesa and its concentration is not likely to affect the competitive structure of the offer in any of the relevant markets. Afterwards, the rule continues by providing that if the sale includes securities secured by the State on newly issued liabilities (disciplined by Decree-Law 237 of 2016), the consideration of the guarantee is reconsidered to take into account the riskiness of the guaranteed entity. The assignee may also waive, in whole or in part, the State guarantee for the securities purchased by him; in this case, the guarantee is extinguished and, in relation to the waiver, no consideration is due. The rule also stipulates that the concessionaire is also identified on the basis of individual negotiations, as I said before, within the framework of a procedure, even if carried out before the entry into force of the decree-law, it is sufficient that it is open, competitive and non-discriminatory. Article 4 authorizes the Minister to carry out specific public interventions in support of the liquidation of Venetian banks. More in detail, these are the following measures: the granting of the State guarantee to cover the disposal balance; the provision of financial support to reconstitute the assignee's own funds for an amount appropriate to deal with the capital absorption arising from the risk-weighted asset acquired; the granting of the State guarantee on the fulfilment of the obligations of the two banks in liquidation in relation to commitments, declarations and guarantees undertaken by them; and, lastly, the provision to the assignee of funds in support of business restructuring measures. Overall, therefore, the injection of liquidity is approximately €4.8 billion and the granting of state guarantees reaches a maximum amount of about €12 billion. Article 5 regulates the transfer to the Company for the management of SGA SpA assets by the clearing officers of the deteriorated claims and other assets not transferred or retrocessed. The consideration of the sale is represented by a claim for liquidation against the company equal to the accounting value of the assets and legal relationships transferred in the balance sheet of SGA SpA. The latter shall be entrusted with the administration of the latter. Article 6 regulates refreshment measures in favour of investors who, at the time of the start of the compulsory administrative winding-up, held subordinated debt financial instruments issued by banks in liquidation. Those entities may access the benefits of the Solidarity Fund established by the Stability Act for 2016 in favour of entities that had invested in subordinated financial instruments of banking institutions put in resolution at the end of November 2015. Article 7 introduces specific tax rules concerning the treatment of supplies provided for in Article 3, with reference to the profiles relating to DTAs, VAT, IRES and IRAP. In summary, it is provided that the company supplies provided for in Article 3 also determine the supply of the DTAs. The same supplies are considered to be supplies of branches of the holding and therefore excluded from VAT. Any capital gains are also exempt for the purposes of IRES and IRAP. Article 9 provides that the measures under consideration are to be taken within the limits of the availability of the Fund established by Decree-Law No 237 of 2016 (the "Save protection in the credit sector'). I therefore believe that the decree-law under consideration is, in the light of the above considerations, an important piece, addressed to a counterpart who legitimately expects the agreements signed with the Government to be definitively converted. In the background, changes to the regulatory structure of a European source remain. On this front too, the Finance Commission is also preparing to send a series of detailed proposals to the European Commission to contribute ex ante to the regulatory process. The issues that remain to be addressed, in the spirit set out above, are as follows. The responsibilities of managers for the crisis of banks: in current legislation there is a problem of perception of substantial lack of incisiveness in terms of sanctions of irregular, illegal or fraudulent behaviour. Despite measures of refreshment also vis-à-vis bond holders (financial instruments with an investment character that are quite different from deposits and shares), the need remains to rebuild a firm relationship of trust with banks. Of different character is the question of a regulatory intervention that protects the directors of the banks subject to compulsory liquidation for the actions put in place after the request for intervention of the State. The enlargement of the beneficiaries must be seen from a system perspective. Very important is the clarification on the tax treatment of indemnities: it has been clarified definitively that no regulatory action is necessary to exempt from the levy the sums received as compensation by those entitled to all banking events of these years. Finally, deteriorated loans: it is well known to all that the perceived risk to the Italian banking system for the mass of deteriorated loans is very high, both in the market and among the European authorities. It must be said that the solutions in the field today are many and range from the initiative of individual credit institutions, to the SGA, to which the deteriorated credits of the Venetian banks are transferred. The aim, reiterated at the hearing by Minister Padoan, is to create a market for such assets that cuts expectations of financial speculation centres, ready to seize opportunities to buy at very low recoverable credit prices. It is also known that this objective has been made more difficult by the original valuation of the assets of the four banks in resolution. The bankruptcy and debt recovery procedures have been modified, but it will take time for a reduction in recovery times to reflect on prices. In the Commission, a consensus emerged on the idea of creating a special European public vehicle to assist banks in cleaning up their balance sheets. It is appropriate to reflect on the national public commitment to constitute a similar instrument. There are initiatives that deserve further consideration: the Finance Committee will deal with them in the next few days, stimulating an initiative aimed at the government. I conclude by stressing the agendas accepted by the Government for the protection of employment levels and works of art present in the assets of the banks wound up. This was a way, even in the narrowness of the times and in the complexity of the procedure, to testify to the attention that the entire Commission has placed, not only to preserve with this intervention the country from significant risks, but also to protect local aspects that were indissolubly linked to the history of the two banks and the tradition of the Region in which they were born.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u110	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u111	Madam President, the solution proposed by the Government for the rescue of the two Venetian banks, Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, shows once again, as we have repeated continuously, the same approach that characterized the management of the banking crises of recent years, namely that of procrastinating as much as possible the solution of the problems, making the economic logic subordinate to the political one, in this case not to interfere with the local elections, postponement which, moreover, has not served much, given the results of the elections. Indeed, as early as April 2017, according to the European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, in view of the approaching elections in June, a possible rescue of the two banks by the Government would have been a burden on consensus. The government stated that the intervention of the Atlas Fund would be decisive, so over a year 3.5 billion euros have been burned and now we give 5 to 20 billion to Banca Intesa, without the public having even an action. In the days following the issuance of the decree-law in question, the Board of Directors of Intesa has expressly requested that the transaction have no impact on its assets and on the policy of distribution of dividends and that the positive outcome of the transaction be subject to a conversion into law of the decree without modification. This had not yet been seen: a Parliament that is forced to legislate, to convert a decree-law with the gun bet. In addition to this, we are preparing to convert this decree-law through yet another recourse to trust. But you see, Madam President, that has continued to go on in this way rather than proceeding with the profound rethinking of the current banking discipline which, starting from the separation between the two types of banks (commercial and business), puts them in a position to fully exercise their role, first of deposit guarantors and then of agents of transmission of monetary policy. The Government continues faultily and irresponsibly to manage the crises of the banking system with emerging logic, even pushing to issue decrees-laws such as the one in question, which presents profiles of obvious constitutional illegitimacy. You see, President, we have not only written this in our preliminary question: yesterday it was also highlighted by authoritative newspapers and commentators, such as "Il Sole 24 Ore" (Il Sole 24 Ore) which is certainly not a newspaper that can be ascribed to our political area and which has, in a ruthless way, detected all the profiles of obvious unconstitutionality present within this decree-law. The regulatory perimeter designed by this decree-law, within which the rescue of the two banks will be carried out, is the result (and this is the main element of clear unconstitutionality) of a framework widely derogating - implicitly or explicitly - of numerous existing provisions to protect savings and public faith, capable of determining a serious compromise of the basic principles governing the competition procedures. The Government deliberately imposed the primacy of the public interest on the stability of the banking system over that of the social creditors and suspended the validity of any existing provision that could be an obstacle to the transfer to the assignee (Bank Intesa Sanpaolo) of the healthy parts of the two Venetian banks. Moreover, it is clear that the transaction was also incomprehensiblely endorsed by the European authorities, which initially, on the other hand, had found the precautionary recapitalisation operation of the two banks incompatible with European State aid rules, if carried out without the contribution of private capital, but then authorised thereafter. With the decree-law under consideration, the State, also by way of derogation (and is the first derogation) from its accounting rules, grants the assignee financial support in order to maintain unchanged the capital parameters of the transferred institution and to support restructuring operations of the same, as well as a state guarantee on the fulfilment of the obligations of the entities in liquidation and of their non-performing claims, for a total amount of resources mobilized equal to approximately 17 billion euros. A further derogation from the rules is provided for where it is specified that the continuation of the business (banking) is ordered... without the need to acquire authorisations or opinions of the Bank of Italy or of the supervisory committee of the Bank of Italy, authorisations placed by the legal order to protect any prejudice that may arise to creditors from the continuation of the business. Moreover, a differentiated and discriminatory treatment is established where the decree-law states that the determination of the liabilities of the two banks in liquidation is carried out with reference only to the creditors not transferred, retrocessed or arose after the initiation of the procedure, in spite of the principle of par condicio creditorum, the same principle disregarded by Article 3, paragraph 1, which authorizes the commissioners to act in derogation from the provisions of Article 2741 of the Civil Code, for which the creditors have equal right to be satisfied on the assets of the debtor. Also derogate from several existing legislative provisions, including rules requiring, in case of transfer of ownership, the compliance of cadastral data with the de facto state of buildings, as well as those on building abuse. It does not apply, as the measure states, to the other nullity cases provided for in the current rules on urban, environmental or cultural heritage and any other national or regional legislation, including the rules on regulatory plans. All predictions that fuel more than some doubt about the conformity of the property assets of the two Venetian banks. In addition, the text is dyed yellow when it states that: The assignee is identified, also on the basis of individual negotiations, in the framework of a procedure, even if carried out before the entry into force of this decree. This provision serves to legitimize an identification, that of Banca Intesa, already perfected in an indefinite past, in a opaque way, by the Government. It is also provided that, for the relevant general interests of the national economy, the concentration in the hands of the assignee resulting from the transfer is removed from the antitrust rules (other derogation). Therefore, Banca Intesa can safely acquire a dominant position in the Venetian credit market. The special and hybrid regime underlying the entire measure creates a clear separation of the assets of the two banks transferred (good bank) from their liabilities (bad bank), with injurious treatment of the social creditors, who will be able to assert their reasons only in respect of a forced winding-up procedure without elements of the asset and therefore with possibility of fulfilling quite remote, if not unnecessary. In conclusion, therefore, you can of course continue to use these emerging measures, which all end with confidence, to get these measures approved, but the profiles of unconstitutionality, as I said from the outset, are absolutely obvious, described widely and now also publicly discussed. Several provisions contained in the measure, if approved, will, in our opinion, inevitably be subject to the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court, which will be called, first of all, to balance their predictions with the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution (which is constantly being called into question in this provision), that of the freedom of economic initiative, enshrined in Article 41 and that of the protection of savings enshrined in Article 47. For all these reasons of obvious and recurring constitutional illegitimacy we ask not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2879. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u112	He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u113	Madam President, we have raised a point of reference, as we do every time decrees are issued by this Government, because the system provided for in the Constitution is being abused all the time. Again, the government wants to attribute itself to an immense power that transcends its prerogatives. In this way, the Commission wants to make the laws that are practically tailored to itself. The decree-law to our examination intervenes as a result of a series of measures that have intervened on the banking system, in particular on the Venetian one. Among other things, we would like to stress the need and urgency here, perhaps forgetting that for a long time there has been a call for action that would prevent the risk of default and thus protect savers. The situation of failure of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca has been known for several years and has been requested for a long time but has not arrived. On the contrary, a number of measures have taken place which have only led from a bankruptcy system to a disastrous system. We have arrived, after too many hesitations - not to mention collusions - at the need to intervene on a situation that is now unsustainable. Among other things, the instrument of the decree-law was used, thus allowing the Government to try to impose a precise content of the provision. I would now like to denounce the absence of constitutional presuppositions for the use of the instrument of the decree-law: first of all the need to intervene was already evident years ago. It is not today that the necessity and urgency have been determined, because these conditions took place at the time when the measure which provided for the stock exchange listing of popular banks was approved. It was already known at that time that a disastrous situation would arise and therefore there is an increase in intent. Censorships aren't over. We believe that this decree-law is clearly unconstitutional: we are talking about a special insolvency procedure, but we remember what was also noted at the hearing at the same 6a Senate Commission, when a member of the ECB Supervisory Board considered that this is a precedent to facilitate the overtaking of the rules in the future. We immediately realize that there is a violation of the very rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 101 of the Treaty prohibits the exploitation of the dominant position. In fact, here we are, in fact, giving to a private operator a banking structure of a strategic area such as that of Veneto, with ways that arouse suspicion regarding the transparency and linearity of the relative procedure. Arriving at this point, the Government was almost blackmailed to accept the proposals of a company - which combines its 800 branches with the other 900 branches of a banking system - that held the saving and investment activity of the entire Veneto Region. These rules also violate the Constitution as regards non-respect for equality and equal treatment between similar situations. The rules, in fact, treat in a clearly different way the individual subscribers of the bonds because of the title under which they were subscribed, discriminating according to whether they were signed before or after the date of 12 June 2014. A clear difference of treatment exists also between the shareholders and savers of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Bank compared to the holders of the subordinated securities of Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS), which, by chance, had the opportunity to take advantage of the conversion of their bonds into shares, which were then bought back directly by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Instead, the shareholders of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca must now undergo complicated mechanisms, such as those of flat-rate refreshment and arbitration procedures. In addition to the violation of the principle of freedom of competition, we are obliged to denounce the open violation of the principles of justice, because we have faced situations in which numerous lawsuits and prosecutions are pending against Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, which, let us remember, were supported not only by the world of communication, but also by important testimonials and professional associations. The whole world believed in these banks; investment had been made and the image of the solidity of the banks had passed away, which, in hindsight and, unfortunately, in the light of the events, proved to be a real disaster, not only economic, but also social. We have seen shareholders and savers who have invested everything in these shares, the income of work and the savings of a lifetime, or even entrepreneurs who have opened trusts, offering the same shares as collateral, at the request of the officials themselves and of those who worked within these banks. We saw a system in which what we thought was true, actually it wasn't. Unfortunately, the disorderly and irresponsible government action of the majority, which has taken a series of measures that have increased the damage, join the conducts, which unfortunately we can call criminals, by the leadership of these banks. In this regard, we have just recently seen the opening of certain judicial procedures. In this case, however, we find the lack of justice, because the cases for which indictments are sought concern very slightly punished hypotheses in our legal system. Therefore, those who have made themselves responsible for these transactions often having acted in conflict of interest will not be punished and this will be the biggest shame that will suffer the shareholders and savers of these two Venetian banks. They will find themselves impoverished, will see all their proceeds and their small or large assets reset, which had been insured within these banks, and they will also find themselves denied the right to justice, because they will see the responsible unpunished. Nothing has been done so far to act, to identify and to punish precisely those responsible. Nothing has been done to provide for rules to protect savers, who have open causes. There are procedures which this procedure is in danger of nullifying. Those who have rights will probably be able to assert them against a completely non-tenant bad bank or, in any case, unsolvable. The situation could have been resolved if the policy had been careful and responsible. If in Veneto, which has always been the engine of Italy, producer of income and "provider" of taxes and taxes for the whole Italian State, episodes like these have occurred that has been removed the sap of the Veneto itself, represented by savings and business activity. There are doubts. What are you doing? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u114	He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u115	Madam President, if I were to sell my old car to a euro, you would say to me: "Bravo!." But if the buyer were to be paid for repairs and give him a three-year guarantee, it would look a little strange to me. If I did it with public money, you tell me what you'd call me. This is what happens with this decree-law in Intesa-San Paolo, to which two banks are regulated at the price of one euro and the State - that is the citizens - bears 5 billion costs, plus 12 of public guarantees. It's just the last episode. In 2011 the Monti Government lends 4.1 billion euros to Monte Paschi and with the subsequent decree saves billions of guarantees on toxic bonds. In 2013 the Letta Government allocates 19.8 billion for credit losses; in January 2014 7.5 billion is given by the Banca Italia decree. In 2015, with the Renzi Government there is yet another bank-saving decree with 4 billion for four institutions, including Banca Etruria di Papa Boschi. Finally, we arrive at the Gentiloni Government. Silvers that first grants 5.4 billion to Monte Paschi di Siena and now 17 billion to the Venetian banks. In six years we have reached the frightening figure of EUR 85 billion. No more presents! If the State takes on the burden of consolidation, it will also acquire future property and benefits. Didn't you teach us anything about the FIAT experience? Privatise profits and download losses to the public. It is an unreasonable law and violates the principles derived from Article 3 of the Constitution. The article is further violated where for Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza there is an ad hoc treatment, generating a clear and serious disparity compared to other credit institutions, but above all between shareholders and bondholders (slaughtered as sacrificial lambs) and creditors and accountants. Everyone had to be protected, as provided for in Article 47 of the Constitution: "The Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms." Today we have received a delegation of associations from the victims of these banks, who have represented to us the despair of those who have lost the savings of a lifetime, at risk of losing their lives now as well. A colossus like Intesa Sanpaolo, with a direct deal and for a single euro, allows itself instead to increase its assets to 47 billion, 433 billion direct collection, 410 billion customer jobs and 6,100 bank branches. The costs of restructuring and past and future risks fall on taxpayers, in spite of free competition and Article 41 of the Constitution. According to Mediobanca securities, the acquisition is virtually risk-free for the institute led by Carlo Messina, which collects opportunistically the prize of national reputation, effectively negotiating the stability and credibility that the operation carries. It will earn 250 million additional profits by 2020, after the 40% cut in operating costs due to the closure of 600 branches, with a 6% increase in expected profit per share. Not to mention - says the report - the enormous price fixing power that Intesa Sanpaolo will exercise in Veneto having a market share of 30 percent. You're crazy! Finally, this decree-law covers the responsibilities: avoiding failure, fraudulent behavior emerged from investigations will not constitute bankruptcy. No one wants failure, but in this way the time limits of the prescription will remain too tight for a prosecutor like that of Treviso, third in the relationship between the number of magistrates and citizens, with only one deputy prosecutor and a couple of administrative collaborators for thousands of files. The prescription is already announced if we do not intervene to create a pool dedicated to this colossal scandal. In this case, in fact, easy money was lent to businessmen and politicians friends; small entrepreneurs, on the other hand, were required to buy shares to have a credit and, when they tried to sell those shares to finance themselves further or to help their children, they were promised rather a zero interest loan provided they "held" the toxic actions. The decree-law also violates Article 3 of the Constitution where these directors are granted state aid to get away with an ad personas intervention. Yet it could have been even worse, because an agenda had been deposited that, on the one hand, committed the Government to take measures to ensure that such directors were always condemned to perpetual ban from public offices and from the exercise of the professions, but on the other, it proposed to exclude liability for acts and conduct after 17 March 2017. What happened on March 17, 2017? The text also stipulated that the liquidation did not entail the failure of the requirements of good repute, professionalism, competence and correctness, as prescribed by the law; a law that was not to apply to all. I also regret to see among the signatories the Venetian senator Laura Puppato, awaiting that in the corridors we already referred to the aforementioned agenda as "odg Viola." It was not approved, but another agenda was adopted which provided for mitigating measures. Mr President, for all the reasons I have been able to express, and for many others, the decree-law in question appears to be detrimental to Article 3, as well as to Articles 24, 41 and 47 of the Constitution. On behalf of the M5S Group, I therefore ask, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2879. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] (17.48 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u116	Since no one intends to intervene in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of Langella quorum (ALA-SCLP). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 2879 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP1), Senator Tosato and other Senators (QP2), and Senator Endrizzi and other Senators (QP3). It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Senator Martelli is enlisted to speak [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u117	Mr President, maybe we'll just wait for them to come out. Can we have two minutes to get people out? This is objectively impossible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u118	I pray to go away in silence, so as to give Senator Martelli the opportunity to begin his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u119	[[Brusio.]] MARTELLI (M5S). I guess we'll never make it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's almost like recreation. A moment of silence, please. Please, Senator Martelli, start talking and you'll see that you'll be so interested in senators that they'll keep quiet. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's hope so. Mr President, we are talking, in general disinterest, about the biggest bank fraud in the post-war period. This was doomed as a saver. If this is the rescue, leave them alone, please, because it's like giving a lead lifesaver to someone who's drowning. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now let's go argue because this is a colossal scam. There are "only" 200,000 people who are savers in whole or in part cheated, because their right to the protection of savings has not been guaranteed, in spite of the Constitution. They were not the only ones who were conned, but the Italian citizens were also conned, to whom we throw away something like - because you have to do them well - 19,027 million. Let's see a little because, why and to whom the Italian citizen is giving 19,027 million. Let's see how this figure is made up. There is a series of direct and indirect funding and disbursements to one subject, which we will then see exactly how it has been identified. Well, to this subject we give 4,785 million cash (money). This money is made up as follows: 3.5 billion as a capital increase. That is: Banca Intesa on the one hand you take for 50 cents Veneto Bank and for 50 cents Banca Popolare di Vicenza, which makes a total euro - by the way, the next time you want to do this operation call home, we collect and offer something more, then we give it to the community; at least we will do a better work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - and these banks sold for one euro are given 3.5 billion why? Because Banca Intesa says: "You are giving me something that lowers my capital ratios, then I need... Mr. President, I'm told you can't hear what I'm saying. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, should we put the volume on? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Approach the microphone, Senator Martelli. Please, let's increase the volume. You have to be careful, otherwise the system goes into distortion. MARTELLI (M5S). We said 3.5 billion to increase the capital ratios of Banca Intesa, because Banca Intesa says: As you give me the healthy part of a bank, I would like you to also give me the assets, to bring my coefficient to 12.5, as required by Basel 3. What do we do? Ready! Three and a half billion. But then we talk about corporate restructuring of 1,285 million, because Banca Intesa says: I'm taking some employees, too many, I should leave some at home. It's 3.274. You will say: 3,274 employees of the Venetian banks. Wrong. The Venetian banks put 350; the other 3,000 and beyond are of Banca Intesa. So you're using our money for a corporate restructuring of a bank that's useful and so should manage itself. Let's split up. What's 1,285 million divided by 3,274? It makes about 392,000 euros each, to give them twenty-four months extra (jobs act) to make them stay at home. What kind of salary did these people get? Because 392,000 euros divided twenty-four is a lot. Just to understand, they are forty-one years of citizenship income to 780 euros per month each; I repeat, forty-one years. Citizenship income doesn't, but this social income does. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Calm down. If Banca Intesa can send these people home with less than 392,000 euros, will it give us the difference again? No, if he keeps them, he crests on this too; with the approval of the Government and the majority, of course. In addition, Banca Intesa takes 1.9 billion tax credits (it's always money); in the dossier this doesn't appear, but the tax credits are there, and contribute to reach 19 billion, which are equivalent to the cost of the citizenship income proposed by the 5 Star Movement plus 2 billion additional: you never know! These are the direct funding. Then there are indirect financing, i.e. 6,351 million for disposal imbalance; it is not clear what the disposal imbalance is: presumably these are funds that must return to the creditor banks and the Bank of Italy as adjustments to previous transactions, because these banks have lost the possibility to exercise the banking license. At the end of the day, it turns out that the sale imbalance is active for Banca Intesa of 3.5 billion. So we're giving them up to 6.3 billion to cover an imbalance that's actually lower: so they're making money, they're not losing us. So, these 6,351 million don't really understand what we're giving them to them. Then these banks hold 30.1 billion good loans, i.e. by people who are considered to be restitutive and reliable. Of these, 4 billion are good but a little risky credits. So there are two clauses here. The first is that we give 4 billion to cover them, but they have three years to give them back: if in three years these 4 billion credits are a little better, the creditors give them back. Who knows if they give us back the money we gave them? Is this in the contract? Another thing to establish. (17.58) (Followed by Mr Martelli). Let's move on. Another 1.5 billion - billion data like this, just thrown away - for obligations on former Venetian banks. What are these obligations? Presumably - because this is not clear too - it is the transactions made to give the bondholders and the shareholders frigged 15% of the nominal of the shares. You've done this shit, too. You told them before you intervened: Let's do this: for every 100 euros of shares, I'll give you 15, but you have to give up all kinds of lawsuits. What are we going to do? These people have taken them: few cursed and immediately. There are also 491 million more to cover the difference between all previous disputes and what has already been paid into the risk fund. We're gonna put this in us, too. In total, we have said that it is almost 20 billion. The last thing I would like to say is that this decree-law was written on June 25. Well, Rothschild, your advisor, for the sale of those two banks on 18 June asked for an expression of interest and this agreement with Banca Intesa was signed on 21 June. So this decree-law reads who wrote it? Banca Intesa wrote it after he agreed to take the banks with money, expelling Parliament, because one of the resolution clauses says: If you change something and it becomes expensive, the contract is no longer worth anything. So Parliament has been deported. This, at my house, is called a coup d'état. [[Applause of the Five Star Movement. Comments of the PD Group]] That's the truth! Because when Parliament is deprived of the power to do something, in a parliamentary democracy it is a coup d'état, and you should only be ashamed of this! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u120	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u121	Madam President, the Italian Government, the Bank of Italy and the Veneto Region have proved to be resoundingly incapable of monitoring and predicting the crisis in good time and then managing it. Much precious time has been lost. The crisis of the two banks has deteriorated rapidly and they have been forced to close; the State has paid out and will pay out many billions more than expected, obviously using taxpayers' money. In the end, the Venetian banks failed and their activities - the good ones - were given for one euro to another private bank (Banca Intesa), while the State paid off all negative and impaired assets. It was hard to do worse than that. Bank bailouts are one of the worst pages of this legislature. Better solutions could certainly be found, even with a little more courage. It was necessary to quickly nationalise the Venetian banks and manage them as public development banks in order to revive the national economy and territories. The government, on the other hand, has laid the losses on taxpayers to leave all the advantages and profits to Banca Intesa. All the weight of the crisis is on the shoulders of Italian taxpayers. The state is committed to about 17 billion, a huge amount. We are facing a real socialization of losses and privatization of profits. A figure which, on the other hand, would be needed to boost public investment and create jobs. The revival of the economy would also allow to heal the Italian banking system overwhelmed by about 350 billion deteriorated credits. The Government has repeatedly said that there was a ready solution and that it was ultimately working on preventive recapitalisation. And he said it up to a minute before announcing that instead there was no more preventive recapitalisation but instead there was forced liquidation, with everything it entails. And we're not really talking about the same thing. On the contrary, it is not a small difference: with the preventive recapitalisation the State, that is, the Italian taxpayers, would have invested five billion euros in the Venetian banks, they would have taken ownership of it and could have taken all the necessary responsibilities actions against the old directors. In fact, one of the crucial points is precisely the responsibilities of bank managers and those who have been held somehow to be managers or in any case managers unable, if not guilty. In this regard, after having withdrawn the rapporteur's amendment to the House, Minister Padoan stated in the Senate Finance Committee that he was in favour of a rule clarifying that responsibilities in this area are certainly important and must be first and foremost avoided and possibly sanctioned. Should we believe him? Minister Padoan has not issued the decree for more than two years, provided for by the EU directive transposed by Italy in May 2015, with which he should have identified the requirements of professionalism, good repute, independence, competence and correctness that bankers should possess, penalty for forfeiture. I mean, credit institution managers don't touch each other. The problem is that the banking crises, as well as the more general economic crisis, are mainly due to the poor management - on which the judiciary is investigating - of the shareholder managers. Work could have been fully safeguarded and credit activity directed towards the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises in one of the most dynamic areas of Italy. Instead, we give Banca Intesa EUR 5 billion in 24 hours, in a contract signed with the clearing commissioner in place of the Government. We are talking about five billion euros lost, because it is not an entry into the capital, it is not the assumption of a property, we are not buying anything. We give money to Banca Intesa in such a way that it assumes the burden - this writes black on white - to guarantee to its shareholders, that is to private subjects, the same money that had been promised before. Basically, it's as if Banca Intesa said to the government: "We might not have done the operation either, but because you are asking us to do it, today you must ensure that we in this adventure will not lose a single penny; indeed, we will have to make a profit from it." And, in our memory, we believe that in the history of the Republic there has never been a decree-law that has produced the opening of a contract between private individuals and that however involves, in a very heavy way, directly the State. This decree-law confirms that for the government to find money is, once again, a simple political choice, alone and pure political will. The money, in fact, has been found every time in this legislature we talked about banks, while the necessary resources have not been found for the school buildings that fall apart, for public health, for the minimum pensions to be adapted to the cost of living, for the maintenance of the increasingly dangerous roads, for the salaries of the public employees blocked for years, for the local public services to which privatization is offered as the only prospect, for the safety of the territory, theme today more than ever of great topicality. For all this money has not been and will not be there, since the government has committed itself with Europe to saving another EUR 30 billion over the next two years. ISTAT data these days say that there are 5 million people below the poverty line, thousands of workers who will have to pursue their pension from next year because they see themselves extending the working age, and that the unemployed without income cannot be told that there is no euro and that their time will come later when instead they find 10-20 billion euros, according to estimates, to save the banks. For all this, of course, there are big political responsibilities, starting with that of the party that supports the government most and I am referring in particular to the Democratic Party, which adds to the long list of bad reforms also this on banks. This decree-law is a perfect example of the current dictatorship of finance that undermines the foundations of civil coexistence, welfare and ultimately of democracy itself. In this case, only and exclusively are the interests of a party that must be rewarded and protected at any cost, while the general interests, those of the workers and the weakest in this country are forced once again to wait. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u122	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u123	Madam President, my colleagues have already explained the measure to a large extent and others will continue to do so. I would like to mention some data relating mainly to the industrial world, since I am a member of the Industry Commission and I have a working history in the private business world. I want to say first of all that we are witnessing a classic business risk shift here: it is not the bank that takes on business risk (since the bank is a business), but it is the State to hire him. At this point, if the State takes on the risk of enterprise, logic and common sense, they would also want to take on any gains that result from it. The first big move is made with a bonus that, if I had had it when I worked in the company, I would have been very happy: if they had told me that for three years, if I had done some nonsense, they would have been subscribed to me quietly, I would have thanked and I would have been very pleased. Banca Intesa has been told that if in the next three years he finds some credits in his opinion deteriorated and problematic, he will be able to quietly relegate them to the state guarantee and then Mother State will think about it. Of the series: the public is always criticized, it is always praised to the private, it is always said that the market left free to act is self-determined and it is the maximum efficiency by definition, but then there is always Mother State that intervenes. In addition to this, there is another essentially practical problem: among the sufferings, there are 8.5 billion that are probable and expired failures, that is the softest levels of suffering, those for which a certain part of these credits could come back, be regularly paid, if the bank, as is normally done, judges the customer still worthy of trust and therefore renegotiates the credit, extends it, changes the conditions etc. This has always been done, but now we will not be able to, because the SGA, which is the subject that as we all know will have to manage these 17 billion, of which 8.5 in softer positions, has no banking license and mistakenly we call it bad bank, so deceiving also the citizen, that so thinks it is a bank, when instead the SGA has no banking license. The practical consequence is that thousands of businesses and citizens who could continue regularly, albeit with some effort, their social, civil and industrial life, will be faced with an ultimatum: if they do not pay, they will start with excussions and causes, in short, they will intervene heavily. This is a very serious damage to businesses and consumers. Therefore, please do not say that with the decree-law under consideration you are saving companies and consumers, all the more so if we think that hundreds, thousands of companies had open credit lines with Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, which are now naturally incorporated in Intesa Sanpaolo. For existing banking rules, Intesa Sanpaolo can safely tell these subjects that they have no problem in themselves: I'll withdraw part of your credit, or I'll make it worse for you. In any case, I do you a damage, because the law allows me because the risk profiles change. So, there is a further increase in problems for the real economy. Therefore, please do not say that you are saving the real economy. Those you are saving are certainly responsible, because having chosen the path of forced liquidation, instead of fraudulent bankruptcy, greatly decreases the period of limitation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Girotto. GIROTTO (M5S). Yes, Madam President. The prescription is the goddamn black beast we're all fighting against. I come from Treviso - I am near Vicenza - where the court lacks staff. So, with the short prescription and the lack of staff, the result is that those responsible will get away with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u124	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u125	Madam President, I would like to speak in the debate on the so-called 'banks decree', and I would like to make one point which I think should be considered very carefully. I am referring to the enormous responsibility of the European Union. The crisis management of the two Venetian banks by the supervision of the European Central Bank and the European Commission has been ruinous and bankrupt. The two banks were first declared of systemic importance, then this qualification was denied. They were declared solvents first, but in liquidity crises, and then insolvent and, in practice, bankrupt. First, state aid was prohibited and private contributions were invoked, then attitudes changed, and so on. In practice, the management of the crisis by the European Central Bank and the European Union has been arbitrary and out of the rules and has greatly aggravated, together with the behaviour of our Government, the disruption of the two banks, pushing them to fail. Bail-in rules and similar procedures adopted at European level under the Single Resolution Mechanism have proved to be simply inapplicable. The Italian governments and the Bank of Italy should never have accepted the European rules of bail in. The internal rescue of a bank requires a banking crisis to be addressed and resolved through the direct internal involvement of its bondholders. They're the ones who have to pay for a bank crisis. The problem, however, is that the crisis is caused, in all cases, by corrupt managers and managers and, or unable to do so. Because of the bail in, the state can intervene to save a failed bank only after private individuals, including small innocent bondholders and accountants with more than 100,000 euros in deposit, have lost all their money. This is on the pretext of not penalising taxpayers who ultimately finance public rescue interventions. However, the problem is that the bail in is completely opposed with the protection of citizens' savings. The State is the only institution with sufficient resources to save a bank. In the end taxpayers still pay the bill, along with mocked savers. We must say this clearly: the banking union has failed in the face of the crisis of the two Venetian banks. The supervisory system under the European Central Bank, the first pillar of the banking union, and the bail-in rules proved to be unenforceable and, therefore, the single resolution mechanism - the second pillar - did not work. In addition, the common European deposit insurance fund will very hardly be accepted by the Germans and the North European nations, because they would be forced to finance the failures of Italian banks and Mediterranean countries. In this way, the third pillar of the banking union will also be very difficult to raise. But without the single fund, the banking union not only remains incomplete, but becomes a set of counterproductive, wrong and unenforceable rules and rules. European rules make the management of banking crises worse, rather than dealing with them and solving them. Of course, we would have preferred the two institutions to go public - as my colleague Petraglia said earlier - but the fanatical liberal ideologies in Rome and Brussels convinced the authorities to decide otherwise. It was then controversially chosen to dump the economic damage on all of us rather than on ordinary bondholders, probably for election reasons. The usual optimists, which abound as always in the Government and its surroundings, promise that with the time, within twenty years, the operation could turn out to be a business for the public coffers and it is mentioned - for example - the presumed asset that the company SGA, protagonist of the bankruptcy of the Banco di Napoli and to which is entrusted also the bad bank of these banks, is currently inactive for about 500 million euros. In fact, a beautiful article by the Economist Zingales on "Il Sole 24 Ore" shows that, in reality, the assets of this bad bank are due to heavy interventions of Bankitalia occurred between the end of the nineties and the beginning of 2000. So the bad bank mechanism, once again, turns out to be a damage to taxpayers. This, Madam President, prompts me to address the second and last aspect of my speech, namely that of the cultural heritage present in Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza and what will happen now with the merger with Banca Intesa. There is a right of pre-emption by MIBACT and local and regional authorities with regard to cultural heritage. But the real scandal - in our opinion - is that the right of pre-emption, which essentially provides for priority in the event of the acquisition of cultural heritage, is completely ineffective, because local authorities certainly do not have the resources to acquire the large cultural heritage that is currently in the banks' belly. Basically, what should have happened, Madam President, is that the cultural heritage of these banks was to be acquired in free terms by MIBACT and local authorities. In Commission 7a, a debate was held on this very subject when expressing its opinion on the Banking Decree. There is a just claim of some territories that demand to acquire the cultural heritage that is currently owned by the banks in question and there are also precedents in which this happened. For example, it is mentioned the Municipality of Castelfranco Veneto that would have a contract for the free disposal of the Historical Archives currently present in Banca Popolare di Vicenza. This mechanism, which, among other things, risks jumping with the acquisition, was, in our opinion, to become a major reason in the discussion on the rescue decree of the banks. We know - as has also been said in previous interventions - that in the end it is always the savers, it is always the State that allocates the resources to save the banks. So, Madam President, if it is indeed the citizens, the taxpayers all who put their money, the public money to save the banks, why not allow the free acquisition of their cultural heritage, by MIBACT or the local authorities that - I remember - would not have the resources to acquire this heritage anyway? This would make it possible not to disperse the heritage and to keep it, where possible, in the territories to which it is linked. For example, I know that Venetian banks have an important collection of paintings attributed to Venetian painters. And, therefore, it would be very interesting and reasonable to make sure that the large collections are acquired by state museums and in any case remain in the territories and can be enjoyed naturally by the public. This has not happened. Therefore, not only do we not want to nationalize banks - something for us remains the primary choice in the case of bailouts, since it is public money that intervenes to save banks; public money that will not be, contrary to what is said, regained over time with the mechanism of bad bank - but even the municipalities or MIBACT should - think you - buy back all the paintings, after having paid the money for bailouts, of course at prices that we can all imagine particularly high, being the collections present in the banks of course of great prestige. They should therefore buy this heritage back in order to acquire it and make it accessible to the general public, and not only to the populations concerned. So, in addition to the damage, you would even have the mockery of not being able to take advantage of that heritage. We would have liked to have had a debate on this. Unfortunately, in the 7th Commission, we were unable to get our thoughts included in the opinion that was then voted on. In my opinion, this is a serious damage to the whole country, because we do not currently know what will happen to the collections, which cannot be acquired due to lack of funds. They will end up scattered in private collections and, once again, we will be back twice: first for the money we have put in a direct way and, secondly, for the loss of cultural heritage. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u126	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u127	Madam President, in February, if you remember, we were here talking about the 20 billion debt to save MPS, Bank Etruria and other banks: 380,000 families have fallen into ruins for MPS crac. And while Renzi and Padoan reassured that the banking system was solid, the imminent disaster of the Venetian banks was already known. While in the Chamber of Deputies Maino Marchi, rapporteur of the PD, argues that the cut to the vitality of the political caste would be the gremaldello to open the road to a real social butchery with a real persecutory attitude towards the caste, that is us, today we are here with a decree-armored law that establishes an armored agreement, with a bank to which billions are given de facto without a real guarantee of fair and complete refreshment of the swindled savers, who will be swallowed up in nothing the savings of a lifetime. Yes, there are speculators, but here we are talking about thousands of families and entrepreneurs who have been conned in mass. Who does social butchery here is the Government and it is the Government party that uses billions of State - 17 to be exact, plus 1,9, as my colleague pointed out before - to save the Banca Popolare of Vicenza and Veneto Bank, destroyed by the usual clique, made of fraud administrators, which today are the Zonin and the Consuls and their industrial friends, and the silence of the controllers of Consob and Bankitalia. Then it is enough to think that among the liquidating commissioners stands out as a star the name of Fabrizio Viola, accused forced for fake budget and update, fleeing from the MPS disaster. Perhaps that is why you rejected the amendment which called for the good of the liquidators and to exclude the characters investigated for financial crimes from that role, which is a demand for minimum common sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is an untouchable agreement made directly with Intesa, without any public competition. Who knows how many other banks, seeing 17 billion on the plate, could have made better offers for the Italian State, but there is no trace. It is a brazen gift of 3.5 billion and immediately noticed the markets, which saw the title of Intesa splashing of 7 percentage points just released the news. They immediately realized it was a gift to the bank. And it is also written in the documentation attached to the decree-law, where it is read, papal papal, that the money is needed to rebuild the funds of the shareholders of Intesa. It is an agreement full of derogations from the laws and the law, which I do not list all of them, serious derogations because they serve only to favor the banks and not the scams. No fair and sensible proposal has been included, if not advice to the government, perhaps derived from agendas: no excessive derogations, no extension of reimbursement of the audience of fraudsters, no derogations from market mergers, no derogations from Antitrust and a commitment of 17 billion, plus 1.9 billion, of which 12 as a guarantee for non-performing claims, which will be securitisation, and about 5 billion as a financial intervention by the State in favour of Intesa São Paulo. Of these 5 billion, 3.5 billion are used to guarantee the neutrality of Intesa's ratios - as expressly requested by the bank - and 1,285 billion are used to manage redundancies. What is it? A capital increase reserved for the State by chance? No, it's a no-go gift to Intesa. Business risk zero. And of course you put your trust on it. On the other hand, we talked about the clique and, as De Bortoli writes - that journalist who is still waiting for Boschi's complaint about the Etruria-Unicredit affair, waiting for you to decide to start the Commission of Inquiry and maybe Ghizzoni comes to tell us the companies of the Boschi to try to save his father's bank - the untouchable Zonin and Consoli gave trust to friends without guarantees with huge conflicts of interest. Even Zonin lent itself EUR 41 million. They all forgave each other. It seems to always see the same film: in 2013 Letta makes billions to the banks with the revision of the tax treatment for the losses on the credits in the law of stability; in 2014, always Letta, arranges the revaluation of the shares Bankitalia; in 2015 the decree-law saves banks; in 2016 the reform of article 120 of the single bank text; in 2017 the rescue of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena with more than 20 billion. You think that yesterday a colleague in the Finance Committee had the courage to tell me that we must thank him for at least having made this decree-law. But thank you, partner. Thank you, Government! And while you burn your savings, it burns the country, with 5 million absolute poor and 20 million struggling to reach the end of the month, maybe you unpack a bottle of white, maybe Zonin, and have a toast to your health. Only and always to your health. Cheers! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u128	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in this House dealing with the issue of banks. It has already been mentioned earlier that the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and Banca Etruria have been mentioned here. And I quote this bank to remember the four banks that were saved on that occasion. The bankers were saved. Really this government, like the previous one, is very strong with the weak and very weak with the strong. He's more of a sheriff than Robin Hood, just to give an example. However, the issue of banks needs to be addressed, otherwise there is a risk that we will still be talking about this difficult situation in the next parliamentary term. And then we will enter into the specific substance of this measure, as other colleagues have already done and will do tomorrow Senator Carraro in an explanation of vote for our Group. The truth is, there's banking suffering. The measure under consideration is wrong and, we say so immediately. Among other things, the question of trust has been raised and we could never feel like trusting this Government, which is doing so badly, as the Government of the former abusive premier, Renzi, has done badly. In fact, things are bad, and banks are bad because the economy is bad and the government does nothing to help the economy and employment. Banks are bad for two reasons. Today we are talking about two Venetian banks, Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, which represent what is called the golden triangle of the country: Padua, Vicenza and Treviso, that is the locomotive of the North-East. Today we are not talking about the Monte dei Paschi di Siena (MPS), which has been managed by left-wing politics. We are talking about banks which, together with other banks, are those of the rich North-East. There will be, then, a reason if things go wrong. Certainly some things have been done wrong and we are talking about the culprits. I have seen that Minister Padoan said today that it is necessary to pay those responsible. Frankly, it seems to me that I have to say that. It is clear that those responsible, where there are, must pay. I am surprised, however, that a government minister, on the day that we are discussing this measure in this House, on which the question of trust will be voted on tomorrow, has to specify something of this kind. Honesty is in fact a prerequisite and is a necessary condition, but not sufficient, because then you have to do things well. As I said, things are bad for banks because they either lend money to people and companies that shouldn't have them, or because people who were solvent are no longer able to meet their commitments. Where there are such profiles, the judiciary will take care of them. And things are bad because the economy is not working and the country's overall picture tells us that only Greece and Cyprus in Europe are doing worse than we are. In Germany the economy pulls: in this regard we see what they have done in Germany and Great Britain for the banks. We cannot think of coming here to discuss only Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza: we discuss the system. Those who spoke before me recalled that in this House we discussed the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and the four banks, including Banca Etruria. There is therefore a problem with the general system. If the economy doesn't pull, I wonder where the measures taken by the government are to restart it: we are zero comma. Employment does not increase: let's think about flops act, which should have led to the recovery of the economy. Not by chance I call it flops act and no jobs act: there is nothing! I would like to remind you that in 2011 the Italian unemployment rate was 2% lower than the average European level, which was much lower than the current one. Today, because of the crisis, the level of unemployment throughout Europe has risen and Italy is no longer below, but is at a level of unemployment of 2% higher than the European average. Italy is also black shirt with regard to employment and it would be easy to talk about youth unemployment. There is therefore a government that does nothing, comes to this House and raises the question of trust. Then he will also have the courage to go to the territories and say: We saved you. Do you think there is anyone from our group here in this House who does not think of the 200,000 households that have deposits in those banks? Is there anyone who doesn't think of the 100,000 businesses on display? I think the figure was about EUR 26 billion. If the bank had failed, what would the companies and the Interbank Fund have done, which must guarantee deposits of up to 100 000 euros, with the situation of the banks we know and with the stock market developments of which we know? We don't hear about these things. Among other things, the measure is very late as the others are. If, in fact, we had intervened earlier, we would have helped many savers, pensioners and families who have invested in actions that have lost 98% of their value or have reset because Europe on 23 June said that there was a financial breakdown of those institutions. Here, however, we pretend nothing and we are told to wait for the white horse of Robin Hood, about which I was talking before, namely the Government, that fixes everything. That's not the way it is. As we are talking about Venetian banks, in Veneto it is said that in this case the patch is worse than the hole. The fact that the provision is mandatory and inescapable, but it is done badly and, moreover, it puts the trust, that we have never felt to give and we do not feel to give even today to this Government, because made of amateurs to the mess, if you want to see it well. If we had intervened earlier, we would not have had to put the current figures. Since numbers are not political, we cannot discuss figures. We can remind you wrong: perhaps for MPS more billions of those remembered before have been put, but it changes little. It's about 8 billion. Here 5 and 1.2 are guaranteed immediately for the staff at the close of the counters and up to 12 billion guarantee. On banking suffering the percentage that is being charged seems to me to be about 50%. Previously, for MPS the load rate was about 20 percent. There is also some clarity to be made about this. You will not get to put that 12 billion, because everything should go wrong, but you could put it much sooner if you had intervened in time. I have not heard a word from the rapporteur on the supervisory bodies. What did the Treasury do until today? Padoan today told us - I repeat - that we must punish hard. But until today, where did he live? This government or, better, this left-wing majority - I don't want to charge Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri, who inherited everything wrong was also done by the previous government - and the Democratic Party that ruled this country until today where have they been? Wake up today? Did Europe have to tell us on June 23 that there was a breakdown of those banks? Couldn't you think of doing it sooner and better? I am a doctor and I ask myself: have we waited for the metastases around the body of these institutions to pay more and not help the families and businesses that make up the connective tissue of this country, the locomotive in the North-East of our country? Nothing has been done. What is being done today is an intervention that clearly could not penalise the families and businesses of the North-East, the people who have put their resources in the territorial banks of Veneto? I come from Veneto and can tell you that there is a strong identification with the banks of the territory. We wanted to penalise them even more, after pensioners and families saw the value of their shares in those banks zeroed? We also wanted to tell them that we did not even guarantee their deposits if we had something more than 100,000 euros or did we want to tell the Venetian companies to return immediately? I say another thing by the way, because the government has managed to do this, too. The previous government or, indeed, this majority - I do not want to refer to the government - which is the same one that was there before had said that we would pay all the debts of the public administration. They had to be paid already and, instead, not even 40% was made to that social fabric that in Veneto maintains the Italian economy. The small and medium-sized enterprise, which is the backbone of the country's economy, for the most part lies in the so-called rich North-East, which unfortunately is no longer rich today, also because this Government, beyond the international crises that have been and which we recognize, has not launched a single measure in the last five years to help the economy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u130	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u131	Madam President, I am here to say above all to the Italian citizens that this umpteenth huge help or gift - call it whatever you want - to Banca Intesa does not save Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, which are being paid off, but continues to shore up the Italian banking system, to save it. Banca Intesa is allowed to obtain the clean part of the Venetian banks, without having to assume the passive component. I would like to remind you that Banco Santander in Spain has acquired Banco popular español for one euro, taking charge of 7 billion euros of adjustments on the credit portfolio, thus avoiding an extended bail and bankruptcy. The Italian State - as it has already happened - intervenes late, procrastinating the solution of problems and systemic initiatives, and intervenes only now to offer Banca Intesa the jewels of the Venetian banks, leaving to the State, i.e. the taxpayer, the task of managing the deteriorated credits, the ransoms, the junk securities: everything that is caused not only by the bad management of the banks, but also and above all by the crisis of the private debt created by the euro system. The independence of the European Central Bank from democratic control of States is the principle that is destroying democracy and the confidence of Italians in politics and its economic system. And there's an open debate on that outside of here. We must abandon it as soon as possible, creating a new model of relations between the State, the market and society. For millennia the coin has been an attribute of the sovereign: on the ancient coins we find the effigy of the monarchs. As long as the sovereign has been direct and explicit expression of the economic potentates, everything is smooth. Then sovereign became the people and suddenly what was given for peaceful, that is, the exercise of monetary sovereignty, was demonized, by the Right as well as by the Left, until it was managed to eradicate it from the perimeter of democratic control of the voters, to shelter it from the electoral process. And now, with the total submission of governments to the European Commission and the ECB, there is absolutely no protection, not even constitutional. Thus, the economic potentates have resumed the dominance and decisions of a people, whether it be the referendum against austerity in Greece, or the choice to use the interbank deposit protection fund to save banks in Italy, are subject to their union, to their blackmail. With this I certainly do not want to say that the responsibilities of the board of directors and senior directors of Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA and Veneto Banca SpA are not to be taken into account. The rapporteur spoke of irregularities and serious errors in the assessment of credit risks. I have heard deep and motivated accusations in this House that I do not want to repeat. I would like clear and precise rules to identify the responsibilities and force those who incur serious violations of their obligations as a function of liability and compensation actions. In order to manage the components of the assets, which should then be part of a bad bank to be expected at the moment, it would have been possible to rent or sell branches of the Venetian banks to different subjects of the Italian banking system. Thus some of the liabilities could have been requalified. So if we are talking about banking crises and bailouts, which will continue - rest assured - even in the coming years, and whose costs will be imposed on taxpayers and savers, it is worth thinking of abolishing the dogma of the independence of the Central Bank from the Government, that is, the strange principle for which Draghi can tell us what to do, but we cannot tell him anything if he cannot do what he has to do, namely keep inflation at 2%. I know that you do not want to listen to my reasons for the euro system, and then I will remind you how the press, the European institutions, many calls of Italian politicians who want to continue to feed the bad plant of autoracism in Italy, continue to say that all the faults of banking crises are to be charged to collusions between the top of societies and local politics. I would therefore like to ask you why all the social stigma, all the propaganda about corrupt Italians and wrongdoers by the media and by many Members present here affects only the political part. Why does this decree-law contain rules to make it very difficult to obtain a judgment against the crimes, crimes of the boards of directors and of the leaders of the banks? Why must the private sector remain unpunished and always remain suspicious of the administrative and political public? Perhaps because the public sector is blackmailed and must continue to be blackmailed - just like all of us today by the Italian Government with this vote of confidence - by the anti-democratic system of the European Treaties, by the anti-democratic indications of the European Commission? Many will deny this. And we will continue to save a banking system affected by EU regulations, a system that cannot be saved. And all this, of course, will not save Italy; it will not save its people, but it will bring them more and more into slavery. [[Applause from Senator De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u132	Senator Augello is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u133	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u134	Madam President, it is a very difficult situation in this debate, because we come to the vote on a decree-law issued by the Government on which trust has been placed in the House and on which confidence will be placed in the Senate, thus making it impossible for parliamentarians, citizens elected by other citizens to represent them, to intervene in any way in relation to a topic of vital importance to many families, many businesses and many communities in our territory. I am talking about the Venetian communities and I am talking about the families of Veneto who have been affected by a banking crisis for which they have no responsibility. It is therefore very difficult for all of us, for us representatives of the Northern League Group, for us Venetian parliamentarians, to intervene in this debate. It is difficult because we have had many associations of savers from that territory and many individual citizens, of whom we have read the appeals and met them. But we are basically unable to give them answers, to be concrete and effective in some way, to be able to respond to their legitimate expectations. We are prevented by this Government, which, with arrogance and absolute blindness compared to what is happening, has decided to follow the path of the decree of urgency and the mechanism of the vote of confidence. We are not in a position to discuss any amendments and to be able to vote on any amendments; and this procedure has taken place in the House and is in some way repeating itself here in the Senate. This is the premise which obviously makes it very difficult for us to be able to intervene calmly in the debate. I also say that the Commission has tried to do everything possible, thanks to the goodwill of the President of the Commission and the Commissioners. But approving some agendas is not enough. Agendas do not change the rule: they are expressions of will addressed to the government, but they do not have the strength and determination that only the amendments could guarantee. We are pleased that, for example, an agenda of ours has been adopted which clarifies an aspect which, for goodness sake, could also be in the will of the Government, but which had to be clarified, because some sentences alarmed us. I am referring to the agenda which provided for the exemption from the tax levy of the sums received as compensation by savers who will receive such refreshments. But it's little. And we also believe that all the events, for two years now, of the crises in the banking system have always been dealt with with with a certain superficiality. We are not faced with the crisis of individual banking institutions. We are not faced with the crisis of the Italian banking system. We are faced with the economic crisis of the entire country and the crisis of the banking system is only one of the many consequences of this crisis. It is undeniable that the decrease in GDP of 10% in recent years, from 2008 to today, cannot be considered irrelevant compared to what happened, in the face of closures of companies, and especially those small of our Venetian territory, which in the past created the fortune not only of our territory, but of the entire country, and which were now in an impossible situation in the face of a sudden crisis that found them unprepared - but found the whole country unprepared and certainly the governments that have succeeded in recent years - and not because of them, but because it was a sudden storm and unpredictable effects. It is clear that they were no longer able to repay and pay their debts with the banks, because they have always worked in debt with the banks, in order to cope not only with their own investments, but with the large fiscal pressure of this centralized state, master and looter of the resources of our territories. Their fault is to have always trusted and in any case, believing to be part of a nation, of a state that would have protected them anyway; they trusted, invested, worked, produced wealth and today are in crisis and abandoned to themselves. That is why we do not tolerate Minister Padoan saying that someone has to pay and that they have to pay those who have taken risks: shareholders and some subordinated investors. This is not the case: they have no faults and they cannot be blamed for their responsibilities and have the burden of the crisis exclusively on their shoulders. But that is what you have done with all the decrees-laws on the banking system that you have approved, with schizophrenic choices that changed depending on the situation of the first four banks, the Monte dei Paschi, now of Veneto Banca and the Banca Popolare di Vicenza, with a differentiated protection against the swindled savers and who have lost their resources. This is unacceptable. You cannot stop at the formalisms, that is to say the fact that the situations of those banks were different, therefore, the protection against savers had to be different. No, that's not how it works. A serious government and a serious state, faced with an epochal crisis of the Italian economic system and the Italian banking system, must have a uniform attitude of protection against all savers. This is a crisis that affects not only them, but all of us, because what happened to them could happen to anyone. Instead, you make choices of different treatments and distinctions, without hitting the responsibilities. Do not affect the responsibilities of managers: we are doing an incredible task, as an opposition, to get amendments approved and even agendas that concern managers who have wrong and who have continued to ask their savers to invest in shares. Although they were clearly aware of the dramatic situation faced by the banks they administered, the managers pushed the purchase of shares and products that they no longer had the opportunity to make, exclusively to safeguard themselves and make it appear that things could still work forever. But you, with regard to these managers, do not have a proper attitude. They have to pay because they have faults. And it is clear that the Italian judicial system does not have adequate rules to affect their responsibilities. We therefore need stricter rules, which you do not want to introduce. Still in 2014 the leaders of Banca Popolare di Vicenza pushed to sell shares at 62,5 euros each: garbage that was already sold then, in the awareness of what it was, to unsuspecting shareholders. But you, on the agendas you approved in the Commission, paid more attention to protecting those who administered banks after 2017 than to hit those who administered them before. This was the priority of the Democratic Party in the Commission, which we denounced and for which we did not want to be responsible. Then there are the responsibilities of the supervisory and control bodies. We do not care that Bank of Italy and Consob tell us that they proceeded according to the rules, sending all the checks, sanctioning and anything else. We're interested in the facts, the results. And the results say that that control system has been absolutely ineffective, it has produced nothing concrete and, if not guilty, it should at least be radically reformed because it is basically useless; it has not performed any function, it has had no effect and it has not launched any alarms. Finally, there is political responsibility, which is the most obvious and the most subtle. If there is an economic crisis, if there is a consequent crisis in the banking system, it is because politics has not been able to safeguard the economy of its country and its citizens. Therefore, it is not enough on the part of those who today rule to say that someone has to pay and that to pay they must be the usual known, only and exclusively savers. In these years, wrong and daring choices have been made. We have fully relied on the rules and constraints of the European Community, which are killing us. And these ties have been established with the co-responsibility of the Italian governments of recent years, to which, fortunately, we have the honour of being able to say that we have never been associated. These are very serious responsibilities. And now we are not able to defend our savers at European level because, at those levels, there are those who claim that our citizens must pay because the country Italy system is weak. And those who have to pay must always - I repeat - be the usual known ones. I will finish my evaluation in the next steps. However, I accuse the Government in this speech of not having us, of allowing us to play our role and of not having us carry out our duty because, in these debates, with the decree of urgency, and the various trusts prevented us from representing our fellow citizens worthily. In this case, the citizens of my Region, Veneto, who donate so much to this country but in this case has been completely abandoned by politics, by this Government, by this unjust State. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u135	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u136	Madam President, in recent years Parliament has been systematically concerned, from the Led Government onwards, with the problem of banks. From 1948 to 2013, there was never any problem. Then, all of a sudden, one problem arose after another. I am sure that there has been a short run. My fellow Members are certainly right when they say that there is unemployment, that companies are in crisis, that, of course, savings are no longer there. In our opinion, however, there is much more. The Monte dei Paschi, as Senator Marino recalled earlier, in 1992 was the second or third most capitalized bank in Europe. Then, all of a sudden, it went into default. Now, the banks to some business owner gave the money. Are there responsibilities of administrators? Of course there is, and maybe the government didn't notice. But the money was given, it was used, and maybe it was made to disappear by some entrepreneurs. I made a calculation: the Venetian banks gave money for about 20 billion. So, 20 million data to a thousand entrepreneurs went up in smoke. That Venetian banks had a problem they all knew for a year. The only ones who didn't know was the Bank of Italy and Consob. Why didn't the government know? All you had to do was deposit a check in one of these banks. These didn't put it on the bill in three days, but they passed from twenty to forty days. It was enough to make a deposit of a thousand euros: this went well and appeared in the account after a month. This means that banks were hungry for money. They were hungry to the point of trying to make their budgets right. So, there is responsibility, yes, for the administrators. But who did they give the money to? You want to tell us? I am addressing the Government here, which will of course not answer us. We have already asked the Mount of the Paschi who are the first hundred suffering. Who got the money? You want to tell us names and surnames? Do you want to tell us where the thousands of branches were rented? You want to tell us who got hired by causing thousands of redundancies in these banks? These are the questions that await an answer. I listened carefully and also with a smile to Mr Tosato when he said that they had an agenda approved. However, the agendas - alive god - are useless, never went to a successful conclusion. Governments, by approving the agenda, make fun of us. This is a measure which, at the moment, has considerable difficulties. The road is winding, because if the colleagues of the Group Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement will confirm their intention to say no to the measure, as they have already done to the House, with the 154 votes that today the Government has obtained on the confidence placed on the so-called Mezzogiorno decree, it will be difficult for the Senate to pass the measure. However, since no one is willing to drop the government at the moment, we are sure that there will be so many absences between the opposition benches to succeed in passing the measure with 130-133 votes of confidence. Colleagues, we are faced with the scientific construction of a situation of inevitability that has fatally led to a single offer, faced with a total closure in Parliament even with minimal adjustments faces - as my colleagues have already said - not to eliminate the monstrous damage that shareholders still suffer, but at least the mockery. All this really becomes too much for those who, like us, on many other fronts, in the difficult banking events, have always tried not only to support in Parliament the action of government, but also, outside the institutional fora, to explain the reasons why many difficult choices must be taken in the interest of the country. However, with regard to the specific affair of the Venetian banks, we do not think we can share what has been done or - better - what has been done about last February. Until February there was a line and a reasonableness of behavior, always in a context of difficulty, where the optimal solutions, for those who know the real world and not only the ideal one, were not there. However, there was a reasonableness of action which, under the circumstances, had led to a precautionary recapitalisation plan which, for example in the case of Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, was successful and which provides for the use - yes - of public resources, but in such a context that the State loads not only losses and negativity, but also assets, with a logic of transitional rationalization, and then relaunches the bank and returns to the resources temporarily made available. In the case of the Venetian banks, this road has proved to be untraceable, yet - as we have already said - it is at least since February that we should have decided the change of strategy in the face of a situation that did not unlock and that, at least until then, had been reasonable to keep on those tracks. At least since February it was necessary to decide for a forced entry in the relationship with Europe, in that case, of course, temporary, then destined to see a realignment in the following months, long before an infringement procedure was concluded, or - alternatively - put in place the solution that has been found. However, it should have been put in place not waiting for the last second, but clearly saying that the banks would not have failed and that, opening a transparent procedure on the market with adequate time, the State, in the impossibility of a precautionary recapitalisation, was at that point available to assess the path chosen as the last resort (taking charge of the negative part of the assets, giving guarantees and on those bases to verify which parties, present on the market, would have been willing to bear, at least in part, the restructuring charges). There is no doubt that, with a procedure initiated in good time and in good time, there would not simply have been an offer from a euro, but there would have been more offers than, if they had not given the willingness to charge the entire amount of 1.2 billion restructuring costs, at least they would have given the willingness to cover a significant part of it. If we have found ourselves with a capestro offer to an all-inclusive euro, or rather to a euro for everything that is good and the rest instead the state holds it, is because it has been expected the last second, has opened a fake open and transparent procedure a Friday in haste and fury and then ask for a binding offer for the proposers by Wednesday, that is five days later, without due diligence. In short, the hasty doctor stinks the wound, here instead the hasty government has earned so much to some speculators and this is what we cannot share and that we think is difficult to get approved here in the Senate, unless it is approved with the complicity of the oppositions that allow the vote of confidence; moreover, that there is no more a majority now know it, it is in the public domain. In conclusion, I would like to say that if the situation that arose with the Venetian banks had arisen in other European countries, such as France, you can be sure that the French Government would protect it, as it did with Telecom, that Vivendi acquired and soon we will have to pay France to be able to use Telecom's networks. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u137	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u138	Madam President, I take the floor on this very 'nordestinous' subject on the surface, because in reality it is a great national issue and I speak as a 'nordestinous', since that is my origin, aware of the many qualities of that land, its great virtues and also aware of some defects that there is in that part of the country. I would like to point out that we are talking about the failure of two important banks, which is not due to a cynical and cheating destiny, it was not the inevitable result of the change of seasons, but rather because of faulty management errors that were not committed either in Rome or in Brussels: those managerial mistakes we "nordestini" made. Of course, when I use the first plural person I am not referring to the totality of the inhabitants of the North-East because it would be in explicit contrast to the truth, but I am referring to the mistakes made by an important segment, even if not totalitarian, of the ruling class of that part of the country, the North-East. We must be aware of this, also in the debate on this measure: the banks of the North-East have failed them the "Nordestini," they have not failed neither Rome nor Brussels. I said that this is the failure not only of those two banks but of an important segment, even if not totalitarian, I repeat, of the ruling class of the North-East. In fact, those managerial errors, those resounding episodes of mismanaging are the result of a very widespread culture, unfortunately, in the North East, that is the culture that manifests itself with allergy to the rules. The allergy to the rules of the Republic or of the European Union is very often reflected in the attempt, unfortunately unfortunately here, with very negative results, to impose DIY rules, which means no rule. In all this there is a cultural trait of the North-East strongly characterized by an anti-state vein. Firstly, the reason for the failure of those two banks, which is not only a local economic and civil failure but, for all the reasons we know, also has a systemic and national relapse. Today we are discussing the rescue of those two banks and important measures that the State, or rather the Republic, puts in place not only to protect the economy of the North-East system, which is necessary and useful to the whole country, but also to save savings and savers. I also believe that there are conditions for helping subordinated bondholders in the near future. The rescue, it must be said, we in the North-East must say is the result of national solidarity. We 'nordestini', at this juncture, must know that those two banks and tens of thousands of families and businesses are being rescued by the solidarity of taxpayers, by the single model and by the 730, which are in Bolzano and Palermo. We need to be aware of this. In the North-East there is a debate, which has been taking place in all newspapers over the past few weeks, concerning the alleged blackmail of the Community authorities to the Italian Government and Parliament. This blackmail would be rewarded by an alleged weakness or ignorance of the Italian Government that that blackmail accepts. I believe that this representation must be rejected, firstly because it is not true and secondly because, I come back to say, it ends up hiding the solidarity of the whole national community towards the North-East, beginning with savers, accountants and small entrepreneurs. We must remember that, if the rules of Community law, which are also the rules of the Republic, had been applied in a pedisse manner, there would have been a procedure for the resolution of those two credit institutions and there would have been the so-called bail in, which would have meant - on this occasion yes - asking for a tax on savers, accountants and small and medium-sized enterprises in the North-East, infinitely more burdensome than what they will bear on the basis of a procedure that is not the bail-in but the compulsory liquidation. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we will certainly have to consider - when I say to Parliament and to the Government - the possibility of some further aid, if conditions are met, to subordinated bondholders. It is a commitment that we must make, just as we must commit ourselves to ensuring that those who have failed respond to their mistakes. However, I conclude by saying that we must be aware, always talking about the responsibilities in the North-East, that there will be a profound lack of local banks in that economy. For the economy of the North-East, for one of Italy's economic and social engines, the lack of local banks will be a serious handicap. It is a matter on which we must reason, but we must know that the local banks had them, there were and who made them fail were us. I am alluding in general to the North-East, knowing that we cannot generalize and that responsibilities are defined, but a certain "nordestinous" culture has made a significant contribution to the failure of those two major credit institutions. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u139	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Padoan has betrayed this people, the Venetian people, and has made a mockery of all those who believed in the possibility of obtaining some compensation for the scam perpetrated to their detriment. Instead he gave away all that good had remained of the two Venetian banks in Intesa Sanpaolo and downloaded the rest to the State in competition with shareholders, subordinated bondholders and all those who have credit to the bank, deriving also from transactions and convictions. What Minister Padoan has put in place is a real financial scandal. All payments, compensations and refunds not yet carried out by the banks are suspended by liquidation and all pending or pending judicial proceedings are suspended. Well, the right to judicially defend one's rights is a fundamental requirement for every individual, who in a democratic system based on the Constitution rises to pre-eminent value, but that is clearly not how this Government feels. "Everyone can act for the defense of his rights," says our Constitution: it is an inviolable right as the right of freedom. This government not only intervened late, but also intervened badly: savers come out doubly beaten and those who should do their interests give the part in Bonis without a real consideration to Banca Intesa. Little does it matter that behind this scam there are failures, people who have lost their lives and their jobs, entire families who have remained on the brink. People, we remember, are not speculators, experienced and professional shareholders, but ordinary people, workers who counted on the savings and investments of a lifetime. Leaving the weight of the payment on the shoulders of the public funds, they will pay the citizens of their own pockets for the abuses received and the scams perpetrated and, above all, will also pay those who should have been compensated. I don't know if you understand the gravity of this. The decree-law carries out a clear violation of Article 47 of the Constitution, which requires the State to protect the savings, an article mocked in the premise of the same decree-law. An immediate disbursement of 5.2 billion with coverage of up to 17 billion worth as much as a point of GDP, at a time when the government continues to make cuts in health and social spending. No reference, however, to sums for the assets of the liquidation, to ensure that at least those who already have a judgment in favour are compensated. Even those who have signed the 15% settlement agreement with this decree-law will not see a euro, despite the precise commitment of the bank. This government, in short, is conniving with the criminals who robbed the Venetian citizens. The only alternative for this robbery done unpunished, face-to-face, is the nationalisation of banks to free up resources for public and social services. I invite you only to write on Google the terms "Venetian banks" and "suicides" and you will understand from the research results how serious the situation is. Finally, Madam President, it is clear that strict rules, specifically created by Brussels to destroy competitors, and a state completely subject to and without sovereignty lead to all this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u141	Madam President, first of all, I am shocked to see that the Government, in the House of Deputies, has decided to put the question of trust, as it will do here in the Senate, thus avoiding that the measure can be improved, following a confrontation, absolutely necessary, on such a highly sensitive matter. There are areas in which seriousness and confrontation are of obligation, because the entire country and in particular my region, Veneto, and the whole North-East are the ones to make the expenses. The final approval of the decree-law under consideration without changes condemns thousands of small and medium-sized savers (actionists yes, but not speculators), like many families and many businesses, to see themselves take away all possible hope of asserting their own reasons against real and documented actions aimed at deceiving them, at the expense of their heritage. In fact, there is no trace of any liability action against former managers, in order to ensure that justice is done, that irregularities and serious errors or failures are clarified and, yet, that there is no fund for victims of banking crime. I pay attention to one point: this game does not concern reckless shareholders or aware risk professionals. Here are some simple lives, personal stories, sacrifices and hopes at stake. This is about protecting the founding values of a community: values that belong to each of us, to our families and to our territory. We are talking about men and women, who have made work, dignity and respect for the rules a principle of life. They are families that, after many years, have managed to conquer a small capital of savings for the future of their children and their grandchildren, trusting banks that guaranteed a safe investment, but that, in reality, put in place at the same time bad behaviors, starting from the top. The Government, with the decree-law under consideration, wants to propose a recipe that actually takes away dignity from a vast territory, which has made saving the way for the future. For this reason I would have expected from the Government a greater closeness and responsibility, first of all towards the many savers deceived, as well as to a territory that has suffered a real financial catastrophe. If we do not give clear and precise answers, the current banking crises of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca will trigger very important deposits, in the order of several billions of euros. To be forward-looking, in my opinion, means today discussing instruments to safeguard the banking system in terms of liquidity and expectations. The superficiality with which the problem is addressed, the unwillingness to confront, the turn of the backs to the many shareholders, kept out incomprehensible from the safeguards of the decree-law, are all elements of uncertainty that can feed what in jargon is called bank run, that is the escape from the counters, which is the most dangerous factor for the operation of a bank and its system. The serious economic and financial situation of Italian banks in crisis has been determined by clear responsibilities for their governance. For this reason, strict control and monitoring of the banking system must be carried out in such a way as to bring out particular situations of distress or difficulty which endanger the availability of accountants. I am talking about provisions to make investors aware of the financial and economic status of the bank itself, as well as the risks associated with the purchase of bond and equity packages. For these reasons, I hope that the Commission of Inquiry provided for in the measure will not be purely formal, but will be the instrument to shed light on the banking crises and to check the work of the supervisory authorities. The question to be asked, therefore, is: who has monitored this special type of undertaking or has not adequately supervised it? The truth is only one: the decree-law under consideration will have a very heavy impact on many families and businesses, in particular Venetian ones, who will find confirmation that their investments are zeroed. It will have a devastating impact on the real economy, 200,000 members, of which 120,000 of the People of Vicenza and 80,000 of the Veneto Bank, where shareholders have seen zero value of over 10 billion euros, which translate into loss of liquidity for artisans, small businesses and families. The effects have not yet been fully manifested and will be dramatic. If in this country the protection of savings is guaranteed in the Constitution, if words such as justice, equality, respect for common rules and laws still have a meaning, this decree-law, which already derogates many points of the current regulations, hostage once again of a bank, cannot pass without a solution that protects the basic principles of a community: the protection of the weakest and the condemnation of those responsible to return what is guiltyly taken away. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u142	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the decree-law was necessary and necessary to avoid a situation of ruinous failure that was emerging and that, as has been said in other interventions, had very far-reaching roots, especially in the sick situation of the two popular banks that in previous years have moved away from their function as popular banks to become substantially a large and very sick speculative management company. This turned out to be - it is ignored in this debate, but it is in the eyes of everything - with the necessary reform of the system of popular banks that brought down that castle of cards that speculation had built in the management of these two banking institutions. The first thing I want to say to my colleagues who criticized the decree-law very hard is that, if we put ourselves for a moment on the side of the real interests at stake in this affair, that is, the 200,000 savers, the 100,000 companies that have credit lines and everything that revolves around a banking system that can act in continuity, then we understand that the real fault of the Government would be exactly the opposite: not having done that intervention on June 25. Everyone knew that June 26 would be another day far more sad and far more ruinous for the system. Therefore, from this point of view, I believe it is now, on the one hand, to bring this path to completion with the conversion into law of the decree and, on the other hand, not to forget the roots of this serious crisis and also the path that the Government has made. It has been said that it is different from others; it is because, unfortunately, there was no possibility, after the first phase of the bankruptcy of the two banks and after the SpAs have revealed the serious lack of assets of the two banks - in this regard I also remember the Atlas Fund and the attempts in Europe - to find other solutions. As a Venetian I feel like giving notice to the Government of having made an intervention that saves that economy, those families and that territory and I say it knowing well the limits and problems that remain open and on which in these days, especially after the approval of the decree-law, we are all called to work in the three directions identified also by many agendas, which aim to give a help, concretely, especially to savers who have been the subject of fraud and who are in weaker situations, through the modalities that will be possible. Orders of the day that also aim to maintain the lines of credit especially for the system of small and medium-sized enterprises of the territory and also to identify with great clarity the responsibilities of the directors who, by judicial means, must be pursued decisively, also strengthening the consistency of the judicial offices of those territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u144	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u145	(at 7.26 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the estimated damage suffered by the shareholders of Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza amounts to more than 20 billion euros; over 20 billion of impoverishment for families and companies, with serious repercussions on the entire Venetian economic fabric, from investments for companies to consumption for families. This is, therefore, a sharp slowdown in the face of the serious crisis that has hit Italy over the last ten years, which has put and is likely to bring many Venetian companies back to their knees, with repercussions on the entire banking system and the national economy. There are over 200,000 shareholders of the two banks involved who now see the value of their securities zeroed. One party chose the lesser evil by accepting a refund of about 15%, but at the same time giving up a possible future dispute with the bank. They have retained the ownership of the shares, but these are actions that are worth zero today. What about tomorrow? I will come back to that later. Families and businesses, savers and investors with different reasons have entrusted their savings (for many life savings) or their own resources in the case of companies to the two banks of Veneto, blindly trusting what was proposed to them. We cannot forget that some of them have not found the strength to hold on and in the face of despair have chosen suicide. Unfortunately, this has also been the case. The situations of savers and investors are different, but both must get the maximum attention and protection. The savers have normally entrusted their savings to their bank, the local bank, where the relationship of knowledge and trust was the basis of investment choices; was it a well-placed trust or was there a lack of information, therefore of misplaced confidence? Different is the situation of investors, very often companies, very often customers of both banks (many already before Banca Intesa), who now become customers of three banks. For these companies the investment was accompanied by the granting of trusts, that is the resources necessary to exercise the activity and to invest in order to grow the company. Will their trusts now be guaranteed or will their sum result in a further credit crunch to the detriment of companies? Will the overlapping of existing trusts in the three different institutions now become a single reality be allowed? If this were not the case and if there were requests for the return of trusts considered at risk precisely because they overlap, it would result in a restriction of the resources available. This is the concern of trade associations and companies. Many of these are recovering, but many are still struggling with the crisis, and if a further narrowing of credit were to weigh on them, the consequences could be dramatic. The Venetian productive fabric consists of small and medium-sized enterprises, very often undercapitalised and therefore without own resources; companies that, at a time when signs of recovery are being felt, continue to need to draw on banking capital. To lower the level of credit now would mean to kill those who are already under the bar of financial soundness. I have no doubt that the way along with the decree-law under consideration is the only way to save the network of Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza, but I wonder what will happen to the shareholders after the liquidation planned with the measure under discussion and the acquisition of the good parts of the two Venetian banks by Intesa Sanpaolo? What will happen to accountants and bondholders? The intervention of Intesa Sanpaolo allows to avoid the serious social repercussions that would otherwise have derived from the procedure of compulsory administrative liquidation of the two banks, safeguarding the employment, the savings of 2 million families and the activity of approximately 200,000 companies financed. The decree-law avoided the bail in, so both accountants with deposits above 100,000 euros and senior bondholders are safeguarded. The former, in fact, become accountants of Banca Intesa, while the latter will be reimbursed 100% upon expiry. And this is indeed an important safeguard. Savers who have subscribed to subordinated bonds will also be reimbursed for their value by the interbank Fund for the protection of depositors and a contribution from Banca Intesa. No consequence even for those who have signed a loan or loan: from now on their counterpart will become Banca Intesa. As well as there are no consequences for those who have subscribed an investment fund or government securities through the People's of Vicenza or Veneto Bank: there would have been no such thing, because the property belongs to the saver. Work positions have been secured or at least the situation can be managed in the wider context. There will still be closure of counters where there are overlaps, but there will be greater possibilities for managing redundancies with internal movements and, where possible, early retirement. The real problem is that of the shareholders, over 88,000 for Veneto Bank and over 111,000 for the People of Vicenza, who will lose their investment, even those who have been induced to buy shares of the two banks maybe in connection with the subscription of a loan or loan. This is the most delicate situation and is the situation for which the decree-law does not provide solutions. The social impact will not be irrelevant: small savers will be deprived of what they had set aside and many companies will find themselves in the need to guarantee otherwise the trusts guaranteed by holding the shares. I therefore believe it is necessary that the future profits of the bad bank should be allocated to the members of the two institutions, because, even if the garbage has a value when it is recycled on the financial market, then it is right that the proceeds of the sale go to the small savers who have seen the value of their shares zeroed. The Government in the future should therefore commit itself to ensuring that the resources necessary to compensate, at least in part, the former members of the two banks are recovered from the management of the credit in distress, taking into account the fact that they are taxpayers who have helped to guarantee to the State, in recent decades, a considerable fiscal residual, that has kept the Italian system in place. Veneto, the locomotive of the Italian economy, demands and deserves support at this time so delicate for its economy. It can certainly be claimed that shareholders could have put more confidence in the future of the two banks, having had the opportunity to join the recapitalisation. As a general rule, this consideration could be taken into account, but it is not in line with the type of shareholders, individual citizens and families, who had invested everything in the shares, just everything; or small companies that guaranteed the loans with the ownership of the shares. A structural situation, therefore, without any means of escape. The solution of the decree-law had no alternative, it was the extreme ratio, the lesser evil to which no one would have wanted to arrive, the partners first. And the government's intervention was therefore an important assumption of responsibility, to try to save what is still salvageable. Saving the two banks must not, however, disengage from the search for responsibilities, which are there, are real and in the hands of those who have managed the banks. The complaints that have already been made and the further complaints that will be submitted will have to be resolved quickly. The debts that have deteriorated for years have affected the capital stability of the two banks; there is no doubt that responsibility for this situation is in competition between those who managed the banks and those who were to control and did not do so or did so in a way that was too bland. In this regard, I would like to point out that there is a great shortage of staff in the two territorially competent Treviso and Vicenza prosecutors who will have to examine the large number of complaints lodged. This is a problem that I reported a few days ago to the Ministry of Justice asking for the assignment, even in temporary form, of personnel that can carry out the investigations quickly. For the members it would be unacceptable if there were no consequences for those who managed the two banks in a less responsible way and without the necessary cares, perhaps even with intent, for so long, perhaps too much. It is equally important that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry should be set up shortly and become operational immediately, not in order to replace the judiciary and ordinary justice, but in order to take a parallel path, but converging on the objective of identifying responsibilities, because that is what citizens and Venetian businesses are asking for and that is what all Italians want. [[Applause from Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u147	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u148	Mr President, in Italy we know very well that we are living an anomaly for which the whole life of the country is counter-centric, that is, the banks are the main ones and - until a few years ago - the only sources of funding for families and the productive sector, what is also at the origin of the other anomaly of domestic capitalism: familyism. Around the crisis of the banks there are those who, on the one hand, sent simplistic messages, stating that they were safe, and who, blowing on the fire and hypocritically, because he hopes to make forget, for example, scams like that of Credieuronord, used them for easy and false slogans addressed to the belly of the country. Such propaganda throws gasoline on the fire fueling the fears of families and conceals that failure to intervene would have consequences much, but much more serious. If, as Italy of the Values, for these reasons, we vote for these interventions to reduce social costs and ensure the maintenance of the democratic system, we must insist that a review of the sanctioning system and prevention measures continues to be lacking, in order to hit the wrong conduct of those responsible and prevent similar cases in the future. Interventions - in one to the need to return to the system wanted by the Glass-Steagall Act in response to the crisis of 1929 - necessary to overcome opacity and conflicts of interest that are closely connected to the family capitalism, which sometimes becomes amoral - and for this very similar to certain mafia - and leads to find on the boards of administration of different credit institutions always the same people, who are sometimes the biggest debtors, or to observe with increasing repetition cases of so-called revolving doors, that is cases of who was to control and, after a few years, found himself sitting on the board of directors or family members with millionaire advice. To hear the reply received in the Commission at the last hearing of Minister Padoan, who said that he agreed to change the sanctioning system, did not reassure us, because it tastes like a mockery, if not a real grip on the backs. Yet these were also the urgent and necessary measures to be taken, to restore confidence and reassure the saver-customer citizens, which is the cornerstone of the whole system. But going to the topic, Veneto Banca e Banca Popolare di Vicenza no longer exist (so we are not talking about a rescue), except to manage its disappearance, the sale of the few remaining assets and the distribution of these proceeds to the remaining creditors, through aid from the State for about 5 billion euros to dispose of the NPLs, with the hope to sell them at a later time at a good price and hope to return the figure, if not to earn it. Another EUR 12 billion is guaranteed and we hope they will never be questioned. What is certain, in this case, is that the capital has been reset and the shareholders have lost everything, just as it usually happens in every public limited company when the companies are wound up. The doubt whether the various shareholders were aware of their position or whether they were victims of deception, scams or scams lies in it all, but it is the subject of civil and penal code and, therefore, trial. Another question, then, is the conduct of directors and senior managers and whether, moreover, Consob and Banca d'Italia are free or not from errors, manslaughter or malicious, in their mandate of supervision and control of the entire sector. I hope that these answers will be given by the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, which we too in Italy wanted so much of the values. If they pay all the culprits for their conduct, it will also depend on the ability of the judiciary, in its independence, to give certain and rapid answers. Magistrate that until now has been silent and has played the game of the three monkeys, there in Veneto, but we know that also this, that is the efficiency of justice, is one of the problems of our country. Having said that, it must be made clear, out of all hypocrisy, that they are saved: the savings of depositors, the deposits of companies with those banks, ordinary bonds (which are still mainly household savings), loans to people and companies, which would otherwise have had to repay them promptly, resulting in a serious liquidity crisis in the North-East, and in other important parts of the country, as well as a large part of the jobs and, above all, the credits of suppliers and their ability to continue working. Was all this worthy of protection? In all conscience and science, I think so, even if in fact we put the bail in the attic. And this is the real political crux of the banking sector and in general of economic policy: to pay for the failure of companies, even more so if banks, must be, as it has been in the past and is repeated even today in the major corporate crises, the whole community through national taxation, to which are charged, in fact, the costs of losses, or who participates in the capital of companies assuming to the full the risks and losses possible? Risks that, when it's okay, involve cashing in large profits in the form of dividends, without giving back almost anything to the community, except in the form of taxation which is little compared to the damage of collectivization of losses. This is the question which must be answered in Italy and in Europe, not hypocritical and clear, without fomenting fears and anguish, because even if this also helps to pick up some votes in the immediate, failing the confidence that is the foundation of the banking sector and of the same democracy, to pay the price we are all then, as happened after the great crisis of 1929. Above all, however, it will be the weak sections who will be paid to the middle class, to whom they are already paying the costs of a savage globalization and of which everyone is making paladins, but chatting. Mr President, I should like to end by asking for permission to attach to the documents the text I had originally prepared and which I had to summarize, because I was told that I had ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u149	Mr President, I would like to point out that there is a new practice: in the Commission, we voted on all the amendments without the opinion of the Budget Commission. Since we had to run, then we established a new practice. But not only that: in this decree-law there are thirty-one exceptions to Italian regulations. I would like to make this quite clear, because it is absurd: we are talking about making laws and then we are doing thirty-one exceptions to our laws. If we go into European legislation, what do we do? Those who do well we follow and say that we are obliged to follow them; for those who do not agree with us, we try to tell the citizens that we will make in some way: today I read statements according to which it seems that everything is in place and is all resolved, that this decree-law saves the banking system, save the Veneto, save save the savers, save everyone. I repeat that agendas have been adopted and if, as I have often heard in this House, an agenda is not denied to anyone, let alone those who have to go back to Veneto to campaign! Never! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This decree-law is made with the aim of stabilising the Italian banking system and restoring a relationship of trust with the protection of depositors, savings and workers. I would like to point out that it has been about three and a half years that you have been trying to stabilize the Italian banking system. You failed: if you are not good, stand still. On the question of depositors, it is true that there has been no bail in, the last step of the BRRD directive, but everything else has, and you have started to implement it before its entry into force, because you often engage in banking communication, but it is not operational because that is where the directive comes from, and we put it into practice on the four banks, in November 2015. So again, in this case you made a derogation from the Italian rules, because you couldn't do anything else to hide magicians. This is your way of acting. What do we mean about the workers? You're giving money to encourage slides, that is, early retirement. Some will agree, others will not, because we know that the person's confidence is also reflected if he has an occupation: since you are not used to working, never think about the fact that work ennobles man. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to savings, you have not protected him at all, because those who invested in bonds have seen everything taken away, for now. Then yes, talk about the possibility of accessing the flat-rate compensation fund, but let me point out that you have set the deadline on 30 September 2017, i.e. in two months, one of which is a holiday and we know very well that it will be a tragedy to recover all the documentation to prove what was the direct purchase and, if there are heirs, of which degree. So I invite you now to think of an extension of the term, otherwise you will make chapels. I also remind you that there are suicides. Who's gonna answer that? Who is responsible for this? No one. You are trying to increase the penalties for those who have committed crimes, but the crime of incitement to suicide is not foreseen, you have never recognized it, in any way and under no circumstances, and even these cases will, in some way, be unsolved, while the culprits exist. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] While on the one hand you are trying to increase the penalties, on the other hand, always with an agenda, because making an amendment was too dangerous, try to give attenuators for business continuity. This is the classic agenda for Dr. Viola's career, because, as a result of the banking rules, he could absolutely not be the liquidator of the two banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You are putting the liquidation of two banks in the hands of the CEO of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and was also on the Board of Directors of Veneto Banca and therefore knew very well what was happening. But if the government has given him the opportunity to approve acts in order to lie again to the partners, the European Commission and the Ministry of Economics and Finance, it is your problem, therefore, you do not have to change the norm, but stop intervening! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As far as supply is concerned, you say it is free, i.e. it must be open, competitive and non-discriminatory. Who's ever seen her? When did you make the invitation to participate in the offers? Explain it. Publish it. If we had to invest - indeed, give - 12 billion euros, we made the offer to Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena. At least, we already owned 70%, we would have put that amount, we would have had our own beautiful state bank and maybe something we could have done. But no: always do little pieces for little pieces, continuing to put the patches. But you're not good at tailoring. Stop it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You're talking about savers. I met them today. They showed up with this sign. [[The senator shows a sign bearing the inscription "Veneto Banca-Banca Popolare di Vicenza." Saving stolen.]] I would like you to meet them too, in order to realize what has happened in these four years and what will happen of the Italian banking system if it is not reformed into the full mechanism, in the sense that both banks have to go back to making the banks, and that supervision must do supervision and not send the men of Banca d'Italia to settle the mess that the administrators have done, because this is what Bank of Italy does, whether Consob has to check when the bonds are issued or when there are negotiations of the shares. Fortunately, this parliamentary term is about to end. We have revised the legislation in the ascending phase, but I am telling you now that what you want to do will not solve the problem of the capitalization of the banking system, because if on the one hand you try to develop all the mechanisms to cover the risk and you want to issue bonds that you know will soon be absorbed, no one will buy them and therefore banks will have difficulty in raising the money they need to cover the risk. I reserve the right to speak tomorrow, in the debate on the matter of trust, in order to update you on something else. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u150	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u151	Mr President, there is time to close this evening, but it is so important what we are doing that I think we can safely avoid registering to speak in this House. I therefore ask that I be able to deliver the text of my speech, in which I made an analysis and tried to identify the responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u152	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u153	PUPPATE (PD). Thank you, President. We have worked a lot in the Finance Committee these days for this. I'd like to say two things. The first is addressed to Senator Barani and also to Senator Bottici who has just spoken, also to reassure the people who perhaps are going to read the report of this sitting or listen to us: it is absolutely not true that an agenda is worthless, otherwise it would not explain why we would have rejected at least a dozen or perhaps more of them in the Finance Committee today. Obviously a certain value has it: it is a commitment and commitment applies to serious people, but we are proving ourselves to be serious people. [[Laughter of the M5S Group.]] Given the attention with which we are following this story, step by step, and given the attention with which we have consistently followed it over these three years, which have meant a tragedy for Veneto. I would like to remind you that if in Italy there are about 70 billion non-performing loans (NPLs) calculated in relation to the various existing banks, 17 are charged to the two banks we are discussing and that the Government has properly saved, but the report is that these banks represent 2% of the total national managed. Now, having more than 20% of insolvencies (this is basically the NPLs) and having 2% of the Italian financial market gives us the picture of the responsibilities of this tragedy, responsibilities that are closer to Venice than to Rome, of course, but then the rest we will establish with the Commission of Inquiry. One last point I would like to make with regard to the incredible contradictions that I have heard this evening: we would be accused at the same time of having spent too much and of having given too little. This happens when illusions are made, in the sense that we are accused of wasting excessive public money, going to strip the state, and at the same time of plundering shareholders and bondholders. Well, exactly the opposite has happened, in the sense that we have saved savers and therefore we have not done social butchery. With the agendas of the day and with the decree-law, we are making available, through the NPLs, as Senator Santini, Senator Conte and the Senators of Italy of the Values that preceded me, what is possible and necessary to save those who have been cheated by these banks and by those who managed them, with the approval of the regional politics of Veneto. [[Applause from Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u154	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u156	Given the length of today's sitting, I would ask Members who will speak at the end of the sitting to be brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u157	I call Mr Barozzino. BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to yet another tragedy in the world of work, and I would like to do so with the words of those who, unfortunately, live it on their own: "I am a mother and a wife who is losing everything," says Lucia, "my husband after thirty years of service has been out of work and now for my daughter there is no hope. For over twenty years we have been taking care of his disability by using all our time and money, because my girlfriend is forced in a wheelchair by a serious handicap that leads us to travel often around Italy and are not really pleasure trips. But as of today it will no longer be possible, apparently. One thing is certain, Lucia continues, "I don't give up." It's yet another absurd story that shows what's going on in the world of work. In this case we are talking about the four workers fired from the Hitachi of Naples, which, I want to remind everyone, is not a company in crisis, indeed. These are the words of the wife of one of the four workers fired. This lady, Mrs. Lucia, among other things, climbed on the roof of the factory a few days ago and even threatened to set herself on fire. For the too hot she was accompanied to the hospital, she had a lack, but as soon as she recovered - and it worries me - she said that if there will be no positive news she will do even worse. I really hope not. Another of the four workers also attempted suicide and was saved by his daughter. Let us try to imagine the state of a family living in such delicate moments. I shall finish, because unfortunately time is always short. I think politics should be interested in these tragedies. I learned about this through a priest, while politics always pretends not to listen. I will not tire of bringing these tragedies to this House, because I believe that this is the task of politics: to take an interest in the real problems that this country is experiencing. I do not want to resign myself to the death of this country because, I repeat, when these events are experienced in work, this dramatic situation is experienced, the country is destined to die and I do not want to see my country die. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Montevecchi and Fornaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u160	WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). Mr President, Mrs Maria Archetta Mennella, a resident of Musile di Piave in the province of Venice, was stabbed by the former husband who did not accept the end of the report. Although she had already been threatened, she had never turned to the Forces of Order or to an anti-violence service, even present at the town hall in Musile, a few meters from her home. The investigation is ongoing but, apparently, the woman had never been helped because her ex-husband blackmailed her, threatening to hurt their children. Without wishing in any way to judge a tragic single case, it can be said that this gender dynamic is recurrent, as the workers of the anti-violence centres and the experts who have spoken at the hearing of the Committee of Inquiry into Gender Violence and Femicides have testified to us. Unfortunately, giving in to blackmail does not solve anything, because in his delirium of power man raises more and more the mail and to the blackmail not contrasted inevitably makes an even greater blackmail. Yet, we must react to the sense of impotence that pervades us when cases such as Mrs Mennella's happen. Terrible deaths like this can help us understand some things: perhaps the most important is that women and all those who encounter them should know that it is a serious mistake to underestimate the escalation that leads to violence. Do not underestimate the episode, saying that it was only a moment and will pass. In fact, it hardly ever passes and the woman must be moved not to underestimate and be helped. But men must also be moved to be helped. Violence and loss of control are not an inevitable destiny. You can get out of it, but it's hard to do it alone. This is also why anti-violence services can give a valuable hand and around Italy numerous groups of help for abusive men have been born. I shall end, Mr President, by saying that violence is fought on several fronts. In their tragic events such as that of Maria Mennella can help us understand how it is very difficult to get out of the spiral of violence alone. Widespread education at all levels and well-organized services can block escalation before it is too late. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u163	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Mr President, the issue that has now been dealt with by my colleague, gender violence and feminicide, has been the subject of important parliamentary initiatives in this parliamentary term, particularly on the part of this House. The draft law, from the Chamber of Deputies, presented by Mr Capelli, concerning interventions in favour of orphans of feminicide, is before the Commission. I would like to remind you that in just six months, since the beginning of 2017, feminicide has hit 48 women and caused 30 new orphans, which add to the other 1,600 estimated since 2000. This bill intervenes in support of orphans of feminicide, who are always children, all equal, regardless of whether their parents were married or married with civil union or not. This proposal for a law was considered urgent and was sent with unanimous opinion to the deliberating seat in the Justice Commission. Then, some parliamentary groups decided to withdraw their consent to the deliberating seat and today the measure is blocked. I would ask you, Mr President, to put this matter to all the Group presidents in order to allow the urgent examination of this provision, which serves to support the orphans of feminicide, their rights and the possibility for them of a more serene life, already burdened by a great weight such as that of the disappearance of their mother. In this sense, I hope that the Senate will hesitate, in the forms that are allowed, as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u164	The Presidency will take action as you wish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u165	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-866.ana.u166	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 27 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.05 p.m.
