ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 31 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u4	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.06 a.m. and resumed at 11.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u9	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes once the quorum has been checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I'm begging colleagues to take their seats. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.27 a.m. and resumed at 11.47 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u11	Let's resume our work. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u12	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u13	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:47 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u14	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 2 p.m. on Thursday 15 June for the vote on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The honourable senators will vote first. Therefore, the scheduled afternoon session of the inspection union will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u15	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00744 (text 2), tabled by Senator Formigoni and other senators, 1-00760, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators, 1-00761, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, 1-00763, presented by Senator Amidei and other senators, 1-00765, presented by Senator Stefano and other senators, 1-00767, presented by Senator Donno and other senators, and 1-00770, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on the reform of the common agricultural policy. I call Senator Formigoni to explain motion 744 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion originates - and is intended to make an effective parliamentary contribution - from the process of rethinking the European Common Agricultural Policy. Indeed, as we all know, the application of the current system of direct aid under the first pillar, indirect aid under the second pillar and the common market organisation have highlighted critical issues in various European countries, including Italy. Today we are once again in a consultation phase, to understand what direction to give the Common Agricultural Policy from 2020 onwards, bearing in mind some very clear fundamental points, which in this case - agriculture - are absolutely fundamental for the quality of life of people. The first point that agricultural policy must ensure is certainly that of food security. The European Union has 500 million consumers who all require a regular supply of healthy and nutritious food at affordable prices. But in agriculture it is not just the quantity that counts. The new CAP, which we are outlining, must increasingly promote quality and diversity, respecting Europe's wide variety of agricultural traditions, focusing more on public support, reducing the gap between payments to the different countries and regions of the European Union and promoting all different types of agricultural holdings and rural practices. The second key issue we want to protect from the new CAP is that of our environment and biodiversity. A careful use of resources is essential for food production and our quality of life both for the present and for the future. Already today 30% of direct payments are linked to sustainable and environmentally friendly practices, but we believe that this share is increasing. The third factor is the vitality of the countryside. We want the CAP to develop an action aimed at preserving and increasing the quality and vitality of our campaigns, also because we live and work on important shares of our population. Agriculture and the agri-food industry today represent 46 million jobs and 6% of European GDP. With this motion, therefore, I wanted to make a nuclear effort on specific points - and I thank my colleagues who signed it with me - aspects and characteristics which, according to Italy, the CAP will have to assume in the new face that the negotiations at European level will have to outline. We are well aware that, despite the progressive reforms with undoubted positive results, there are still problems that this negotiation phase can solve. I come in specifically and finish my speech. As far as Italy is concerned, there is a structural dynamic which tends to retrace from year to year a system that sees minimal variations in support for a constant audience of beneficiaries. This dynamic should, in our opinion, be corrected by allowing targeted inputs and above all inspired by an incentive and rewarding approach to productivity gains and technological advances and the quality and profitability of the crops. The economic fabric of the Italian primary sector still sees the preponderance of small and medium-sized enterprises, for which European support systems prove difficult to access, especially as regards rural development policy, but also for coupled support. There is therefore a need for redistributive action which can be implemented in a number of ways. The so-called omnibus regulation, which is currently examining the European Parliament, is certainly of primary importance, but a prerequisite is the simplification of procedures for access to aid and the reduction of bureaucratic burdens. Furthermore, it is necessary to ensure that financial appropriations are adequate to ensure the implementation of a priority and fundamental policy for the European Union as a whole. At the same time, I believe that the new system must protect and guarantee the peculiarities and differences of European agriculture, in which the Italian one is characterized by productions of excellence and often of "niche," which are the richness of Made in Italy. The orographic and geological conformation of the national territory also highlights the need to identify new ways of managing environmental risks. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, many others are the subjects covered by the motion that I wanted to make. I hope that all Members of this House will share this widely. Support for agricultural activity is, in my view, a cross-cutting issue in which Parliament, with a united position, can support and guide national and European supranational governmental choices. Colleagues of all political forces, let us not miss the opportunity to give a strong and united sign that is also of encouragement to our farmers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Campanella to explain motion No 760.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just two years after the launch of the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the European Commission and the bodies of the Union are today facing a reform of the reform, discussing some important corrective measures to the existing regulatory texts which had introduced important innovations in the approach and management of aid, with the stated objective of preparing a greater orientation to the market for agricultural holdings. These adjustments are obviously necessary, at least in Italy, because the CAP has not so far brought to the desired results, even for some specific difficulties of our country, first of all the chronic inability to spend the funds available. In the so-called new omnibus regulation, which is currently before the European Parliament, important changes are envisaged, inter alia, in the area of market risk management, the simplification of bureaucratic procedures, access to aid for young people, the management of the quality product regime, the possibility of decoupling aid from production in certain sectors and of more effective compensation for damage caused by natural disasters. We cannot fail to highlight, here, some of the problems that have not been solved by the reform of the CAP and some further problems arising from the concrete application that has been prepared for our country. The CAP has not so far adequately solved the problems of inequality in the distribution of funds to the detriment of small businesses which are still an irreplaceable territorial network for food production and the protection of agricultural biodiversity. In our country the farms that receive up to 5,000 euros per year are 87 percent of the total and have received only 26 percent of the funds allocated, while the remaining 13 percent of the farms receive two thirds of the public aid. The implementation of the reform has not stopped the phenomenon of oligopolistic concentration of the companies supplying seed, machinery and technical means for agriculture and controlling the platforms of the large distribution: a phenomenon in worrying growth that contributes to the loss of negotiating power and income for farmers along the supply chains and to the constant widening of the scissors between the production prices and the consumer prices of the product. Finally, the technical application of the reform has not, to date, produced the expected bureaucratic simplifications in favour of agricultural operators, which remain constantly and strongly subject to an overload of administrative burdens that weighs heavily on their budgets. It should also be stressed that the action of the regions and national agencies is also not free from problems. As a result of organisational delays and lack of controls, the European Commission is preparing - for example - to charge Italy, denying its liquidation, part of the rural development funds allocated for the period 2007-2013, for a total of EUR 1 700 million. It is also clear from recent data from the European Commission that Italy, with 6.2 percent of the funds granted to beneficiaries at 31 December 2016, ranks at the penultimate place within the European Union for the share of EU resources spent on rural development programme 2014-2020, with a worrying delay in spending capacity that does not even reach half the European average, equal to 14.2%. A series of guidelines are proposed in the first motion for a resolution to guide the government's action in the ongoing negotiation on the adjustments to be made to CAP reform. First of all, the strategic importance of the CAP as a means of ensuring European food supply and ensuring that the resources already allocated to the Member States do not vary. We ask the Government to intervene on the orientation of aid in order to ensure adequate support for family farms and to provide for measures aimed at combating the phenomenon of excessive concentration and oligopoly in the supply of seeds, machinery and technical means for agriculture, including by encouraging measures aimed at shortening supply chain relations and promoting direct contact between farmers and consumers. In view of the exhaustion of my time, I would ask that I be able to hand over the text of my speech in order to attach it to the proceedings of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I call Senator Candiani to explain motion No 761.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u18	Mr President, given the limited time (within five minutes) devoted to the explanations of motions, I shall confine myself to reading the commitments which we, as the Lega Nord Group, ask the Government to take, given that this motion has already arrived in this House and that, above all, it has not yet been possible to deepen its content, given the continuing delays. For us, the CAP is of particular importance because it is now a fundamental instrument within the agricultural world, but it is increasingly difficult to be consistent with the problems and needs of our agriculture. Therefore, with a view to the revision of the CAP, we ask the Government to commit itself to taking advantage of the opportunity of the omnibus regulation to update the current CAP in order to focus above all on the CAP post 2020 and, in particular, to channel efforts on the stabilisation of markets, on the functioning of the food chain, on food health and on employment. We call on the Government to ensure that the omnibus regulation and, above all, the post 2020 CAP reform are an opportunity to achieve a genuine simplification of the lives of our farmers, an active part of the Common Agricultural Policy. We still ask that the Government undertake to make official statistics available on the number of beneficiaries, on the distribution of resources, on the values of payments, on the eligible areas and on the eligible heads, and so on, necessary to carry out analyses and reasonings and then proceed, with reason, to a revision of a legislative scaffolding that can and must be improved in the interest of Italian agriculture. We also ask the Government to undertake to specify, during the examination of the corrective changes to be made to the rural development regulation, that, with regard to the setting of thresholds for access to the premiums for the first establishment of young farmers and for the development of small farms, this is optional for the Member States which each year notify the changes, in order to avoid the difficulties of calculation encountered with the current approach of the regulation, which often precluded access to the measure to a large number of holdings which would have been entitled to receive support. We also ask the Government to make a commitment to ensure that the contribution of rural development to financing income stabilisation instruments not only covers compensation paid by mutual funds, but also covers insurance premiums for insurance policies against falling income. Furthermore, we call on the Government to commit itself to the European Union to review the application of the clause in the Direct Payments Regulation, according to which coupled support can only be granted to the extent necessary to encourage the maintenance of current levels of production, and to provide that Member States may change their previous choices on coupled payments, in order to apply them in view of the payment application for 2018. We call on the Government to engage in the European Commission to ensure that, in the context of direct payments, measures take into account the added value that companies, located in rural areas where the risk of abandonment is very high and where agriculture is an important source of income for the local population, provide to the entire economy of the country. We also call for the Government to undertake to evaluate ad hoc support instruments, both in terms of economic support and above all bureaucratic simplifications, in order to facilitate the integration of new and young farmers. We also call on the Government to commit itself to ensuring that at least the same resources allocated in the post-2020 CAP are guaranteed over the 2014-2020 period and that these are spent more effectively; finally, to ensure that the second pillar retains the possibility of providing lost funds for investment in the company, as currently envisaged, and that these interventions are not transformed, limiting them to the financial instruments, which are not effective and required. In conclusion, Mr President, we call on the Government to act, so that the rules, both Community and national, are drawn up in a simple and clear way, in order to achieve the objective of greater simplification and bureaucratic easing of the procedures for implementing the CAP. These are the commitments for which we call on the Government to take action against the European Union. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u19	I call Senator D'Alì to explain motion No 763.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u20	Mr President, like Forza Italia, we have always been absolutely following the call made by President Formigoni that we must all converge to help develop a better agricultural policy in our country. Agriculture has always been the focus of our attention. We cannot, however, fail to note that the Italian Government should not only entrench itself behind the alibi of an agricultural policy that is mainly the responsibility of the European Union, but also take action so that the so-called Community agricultural policy, poured on national territories - in this case on our country - has absolutely more effective dynamics. I am referring, of course, to the role of the Government through Community funds. Very often this is a long way to go, with excessive bureaucracy. I could give the example of the Sicilian Region, where it is still expected that the contributions related to the organic of 2015 will be paid: not even the first year, in fact, has been paid. So, Mr Deputy Minister, we need more control over the activities of the regions with regard to the use of Community funds. We cannot just go back to the rules, but we must also ensure that the rules, measures and regulations are implemented. More attention is also needed from the Government on Italian agriculture, which has its specific characteristics. And our motion identifies a whole series of essential instruments and elements that must be applied to Italian agriculture. In the absence of them in a Community regulation, where, of course, we look more closely at the maximum systems, each country should compensate and complete with an activity in its territory. In particular, this applies to marginal agriculture, which does not receive the contributions of professional agriculture from the European Community, and which is completely abandoned while it is absolutely important to maintain the balance and the hydrogeological and environmental structures. In our country the mountain is neglected. Very often the mountain is the object of non-professional agriculture but complementary to other work activities as well. But it is precisely that agriculture that is sacrificed by non-professionals who maintain the environment and hydrogeological structures and should be the subject of a national policy to complement the attention which Community policy devotes to large and medium-sized entrepreneurs and, in any case, to so-called professional agriculture. We therefore fully agree that we should continue with an effective Community agricultural policy in support of production and the market, in support of the value of products. I repeat, however, that we accuse the Government of some of the specificities of national agriculture. I am referring, for example, to some international treaties, conducted directly by the Government, which allow strong imports of non-Community products into the national market and, therefore, partially frustrate the same regulatory effect of the Common Agricultural Policy as regards the keeping of the value of products. We have seen oil and citrus fruit coming in as a result of the policies of the Italian Government and not related to the European Community, but we have also seen the absence of the Italian Government in defending the specificity of some national products. This, therefore, is what we ask for with our motion, which is absolutely in line with Italy's interest in maintaining an effective and efficient Community agricultural policy, but which also intends to draw the attention of the Italian Government to the specificities of our agriculture, which are not the same as European continental agriculture from the point of view both of maintaining landscape and hydrogeological structures and of the economic structure of our companies, which, as always, in agriculture as in other sectors of the economy, are smaller, but certainly not less worthy of attention. [[Applause from Senator Amidei. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u21	I call Senator Stefano to explain motion No 765.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, as has been said in previous speeches, the programming of the CAP is halfway through: it is, as it were, a sort of round of buoys and everyone shares the need for its revision, which is aimed above all at healing some obvious criticalities in order to make it more incisive and effective. This mid-term review, however, takes place at a particularly sensitive time in the life of the European Union: Brexit is currently a fact that still has to decline its effects in the most diverse areas but, as far as the EU's agricultural sector budget is concerned, we already know that it will cost us about EUR 3 billion per year. And these figures are accompanied by ever stronger echoes than a possible re-introduction of duties from overseas. From this point of view, it should be remembered that agriculture is one of Europe's glue, first of all because of its importance in the European budget commitments, making up almost 40% of investment. For obvious reasons of time, I do not proceed to the reading of the motion, but I try to illustrate what I believe the commitments that I hope the Government shares, promoting them in European drawing up omnibus regulations. I shall therefore limit myself to reporting that the demands contained in the motion are summarized according to two macro-directors: on the one hand the simplification of the bureaucratic machine and, on the other hand, a stronger and stronger support for those who make agriculture. With regard to the simplification of the bureaucratic machine, a particular note notes and deserves the greening that, without fear of being denied, I can say that it displeases everyone, being mostly an increase for farmers because of the unsustainable procedural constraints and Byzantineisms that absolutely must be simplified, without, however, producing particular effects from a point of view of environmental compatibility. The motion calls on the Government to provide for a simplification of its current rules and physical thresholds, as well as a re-evaluation of the environmental benefit that current greening practices can guarantee for the Union's agricultural and environmental system. On the other hand, with regard to support for farmers, the motion calls for forms of protection, so to speak, as an umbrella: from the call for more support for the active farmer to greater implementation of risk management instruments in order to contribute to the stabilization of farmers' incomes, because it is an incontrovertible fact that risk scenarios have increased, from price volatility to climate events. We must therefore provide the CAP with an updated system of protection and guarantee. This protection must also be applied to the price-taker position of the farmer, who is all too often crushed by large-scale distribution and unfair competition. It is therefore necessary to promote the enhancement of the market for agricultural products through ethical certifications and the strengthening of policies against different forms of exploitation. The short summary and outline is the expression of political guidelines that converge towards a sensitivity that still needs to be fully expressed in the CAP. I refer to the need to accompany and characterise future programming, which is summed up in the synergy to be concentrated and developed between environmental policies, whose implementation is delegated to farmers, and policies to support the company's competitiveness of agri-food systems. I conclude by recalling the need to ensure that farmers can continue to carry out their valuable and irreplaceable role of land management, which remains a fundamental objective especially in those more marginal geographical areas, where agriculture, through environmental services and economic support, often represents the only, but the most effective brake on depopulation and the consequent hydrogeological disruption. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Donno to explain motion No 767.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u23	Mr President, the establishment of a common market in the European Union with a view to implementing the freedoms relating to the movement of goods, services, persons and capital has been accompanied and supported, since the start of the European Community, by the introduction of common policies. The first to be implemented and financed was the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), from which one cannot ignore the revival of Italian agriculture. With an annual budget of around EUR 59 billion, equivalent to 38% of the EU budget, the CAP strengthens the competitiveness and sustainability of agriculture in the European Union by financing a number of support measures through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAFRD) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). In this sense, Europe's competitiveness is primarily at stake in terms of innovation and social cohesion. To this end, the CAP review process is an important opportunity to pave the way for more incentive and rewarding instruments for those who actually devote themselves to agriculture, drastically reducing income and adopting innovative and sustainable methods. Having said that, in the review of the CAP it is above all necessary to make it an ever-increasing instrument of preventive intervention to protect farmers against the double risk represented by market instability and climate change, giving producers the necessary operational autonomy. Moreover, the EU's free trade policy, which has so far been undertaken, has often ended up being grievous for the agri-food sector and discriminatory for European products. In fact, Community decisions should be taken by reversing this paradigm, i.e. through a price regime and regulatory and economic support that enhances European productions and individual Member States. On the very point small farmers and small processors are experiencing a very difficult situation, often crushed between the tyranny of large retailers - on the one hand - and the indifference of the institutions - on the other - and only thanks to the direct relationship with consumers, with purchasing groups and short supply chain markets, can they find an outlet for the state of crisis; a crisis that unfortunately is also due to the lack of concrete public support for family farming and the workings of the artisans of quality food. Precisely for this reason it would be appropriate to put in place specific regulatory and financial instruments in favour of small agricultural producers, who day after day risk losing their own business assets in the framework of executive procedures, including those related to the construction of infrastructural works. In this regard, the example of the construction of the TAP, in Puglia, is well the emblem of the whole situation. It is also appropriate to provide for a system of aid which is more tied to the guaranteed labour supply and the added value produced in agriculture, always in order to strengthen the ultimate objective of the economic sustainability of enterprises, which can only be built from the actual analysis of the reality in which entrepreneurs operate. In addition to this, there is the necessary de-burocratisation of procedures, transparency in the allocation of resources and the possibility to verify the correct destination as well as the use. In addition, for the post 2020 CAP programming, the two components of greening and coupled aid should be re-examined in order to carry out a re-allocation of resources to allow for greater effectiveness of the measures. Part of these resources could, in fact, be allocated to a fund dedicated to financing interventions in the event of serious market imbalances as a result of emergencies due to animal diseases, diseases (such as annoying xylella, botrite and red awl) and natural disasters and to provide contributions aimed at relaunching strategic sectors in difficulty, such as olive, cereals and livestock. In conclusion, an important role is played by the traceability of food, a theme around which turn other important crucial topics, such as the mandatory indication of origin on the label, but also the theme of short supply chains, local food and seasonality of crops, having environmental and landscape value. These are matters which cannot be left out. In fact, agricultural policy is also, and above all, food policy. As much as profit can be pursued, man cannot feed on banknotes and only by directing agricultural policy towards a concrete sustainability and quality can he actually protect and enhance it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u24	I call Senator Companione to explain motion No 770.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u25	Mr President, the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is one of the most important Community policies, since it commits 34% of the EU budget. In recent years, the Union's bodies have radically changed traditional policy: while previously the income of Community farmers was mainly supported by subsidies, since the 1990s the system of production quotas has begun to apply more effectively, so as to ensure that farmers have a minimum level of product prices and a fair share of guaranteed production between the various Community countries. This policy has, however, had a substantially negative outcome, particularly for Italy, which, having failed to obtain quotas adapted to its own production capacity and to its own domestic needs, has seen its agri-food sector very penalised. This is also due to the fact that the Mediterranean countries have not been able to meet together in order to defend their specific needs in the agricultural sector, unlike those of northern Europe and France, which have managed to turn the Community's agricultural policy in their favour by means of more incisive and present action. The first pillar of the CAP is direct payments, which consist of seven components, some of which must be activated - as we know - while others have an optional regime, as it remains at the discretion of the Member States whether or not to activate them, all within percentages of the national ceiling. In the motion tabled by my Group, we have addressed a number of issues: an agricultural sector that can guarantee a real income to farmers; a new exploitation of rural areas; a food production that guarantees food safety and high quality linked to the territory; the need to ensure the protection of the environment and the landscape also through the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. In addition, we have considered that a number of farmers' problems arise from the uncertainty of the rules and computer inefficiencies of the bureaucratic bodies in charge. In fact, despite the evolution of the CAP, demonstrated by the appreciable increase in resources for durum wheat (EUR 8 million) and the payment per hectare from EUR 67 to 75, the application of the aid system is still problematic, complex and far-reaching: in fact, the territorial imbalance between marginal and degraded centres and areas remains and various criticalities compared to the market crises and to the issues of medicinal grass, diversified crops and the correct interpretation of the expression "characteristic elements of the landscape" remain. Greater attention should therefore be paid to addressing these issues. For these reasons, we have focused the Government's commitments on a number of points: firstly, we have urged it to activate those optional actions provided for in the first pillar of the CAP - such as redistributive payment for the first hectares or disadvantaged areas - which could prove extraordinary tools to deal with the cyclical crisis that has gripped the sector for years, promoting streamlined, rapid, clear, intelligible administrative management mechanisms for all operators and as far as possible bureaucraized, so as to allow operators not only to know the possibilities of reform, but also the ease of access to support measures. Secondly, the Government is committed to finding a solution to the long-standing problem of access to credit for agricultural enterprises, in order to guarantee the private co-financing quota necessary for the implementation of investment projects. While the Community mechanism allows access to notices, the private investment share remains, often to which the young entrepreneur cannot access, especially for the wall in our banking system. For example, it should be possible to imagine the mechanisms by which the State guarantees young entrepreneurs and is responsible for guaranteeing the private share and the banks. Finally, the Government undertakes to allow the common European policy to cover all stages of the agri-food chain, from production to distribution, also acting on the common organisation of the market, encouraging and urging appropriate support measures for disadvantaged areas, by means of specific instruments, including financial instruments, to compensate for the structural and competitive difficulties that characterize these areas, also in the light of the current arrangements for the allocation of premiums under the first pillar of the CAP, which does not favour these territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u26	I declare the debate open. Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Common Agricultural Policy is one of the projects that must make our country proud for helping to establish a united Europe. It is one of those macro chapters which has evolved over time to meet the constantly changing needs of society, the economic system and, in particular, the agricultural sector. We are in a historic period that is a key moment for European agriculture, in which we are called upon to follow up the most virtuous experiences of recent years, to build on the initiatives that have shown less positive results and to encourage entrepreneurial development towards innovative and technological solutions. As also mentioned in motion No 744, tabled by Senator Formigoni, I would like to refer to the proposal made by the European Commission in September 2016 for a new regulation, known as the omnibus, in which a process of mid-term review of the CAP is envisaged. In this context, a consultation was launched at European level aimed at citizens, entrepreneurs and institutions on the future of the CAP: all are called upon to express themselves on the profiles of interest of European agriculture, on its positive aspects and on the most critical ones. In particular, the Commission's new legislative proposal, which will summarise the results of the consultation, will pursue the objectives of simplifying and reducing administrative burdens in the agricultural sector, encouraging rural development, improvements in the common organisation of the markets (CMO) for agricultural products. As other colleagues have already said, this omnibus regulation does not represent a complete revision of the CAP, which is currently in a transitional phase between the commitments made in recent years and those to be assumed, which are being reformed in the future. The aim of the measure is to introduce a number of changes which relate precisely to simplification in direct payments, the definition of active farmer, optional coupled support and the single area payment scheme and young farmers. I would like to focus on this very last subject. As the motion tabled by Senator Formigoni also points out, the objectives to be pursued by the new regulation to invest in the human capital of agriculture represented by new farmers are necessarily those of the reduction of rigidities with regard to credit and bureaucracy, the extension of the definition of a young farmer and the implementation of measures to support youth enterprises, which are very often the most innovative and invest most in research and development and new technologies. This is a very close matter for our country. Italy is in fact the European country with the largest number of farms led by under 35, number that exceeds 50,000 units. Despite this, these enterprises represent only a small percentage of those active in the agricultural sector and the obstacles to the aspirations of the many young people who want to work in agriculture are still numerous: excessive bureaucracy, difficulties in accessing credit and, above all, poor availability of land. According to a survey by Coldiretti, half of the farms run by young people need land, rent or acquisition, the average cost of which is about EUR 20,000, a value higher than those of Germany and France. The average, however, is the result of strong asymmetries present on the national territory, with values ranging between 1.000 euro per hectare of pasture in the Province of Catanzaro and the million euro for one hectare of orchard or vineyard in the most famous production areas, from Tuscany to Trentino. In this respect, two recent institutional initiatives are extremely positive. The first is the State Property Agency which, within the framework of the Terrevive initiative, has decided to put on the market, for sale or for rent, 630 hectares of land with an agricultural purpose. In this way, with the collaboration of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, the land can be brought back to life and transformed into an opportunity of work especially for the new generations, since the areas are banned at calm prices and the legislation dedicated allows the under 40 to have the right to pre-emption. Since 2014, the Agency has identified about 1,500 land suitable for use in agriculture or livestock farming and has already banned almost 50%, worth three million euros. The second initiative concerns the Bank of Agricultural Lands, provided for by the so-called agricultural link, which aims, through a detailed mapping, to facilitate the meeting between supply and demand of land and agricultural holdings of a public nature. On the website of ISMEA, an economic agency of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, land and farms for sale are described in detail, starting from the first 8,000 hectares of land owned by ISMEA itself, and sold with a preferential lane for young people. I am pleased to recall that the 2017 ban for the first approach of young people in agriculture who intend to buy a farm provides loans at a reduced rate for those aged between eighteen and forty-five years, with 5 of the 65 million euros available exclusively for those who start an activity in the sector in the municipalities affected by the earthquake of 2016. Finally, as provided for in the Budget Act, the total exemption from social security contributions for those under 40 who open an agricultural holding is already provided for for for three years. These policies show the importance of generational replacement in the agricultural sector, which means not only taking up the witness of parents, but also and increasingly getting closer to rural life coming from other sectors or from different family lives and aspiring to become first-generation farmers. The European Union, with the CAP and the Rural Development Plans, supports these processes, creating opportunities to settle in Italian agriculture for at least 20,000 young people until 2020. This is a major project to give new impetus to the renewal of agriculture and the competitiveness of businesses. [[Call the president back.]] I would ask the Presidency to give the written text of the speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u28	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u29	Senator Dalla Tor, you have one more minute to finish. WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Senator Formigoni's first-signed motion positively catalyses the government's attention to the new challenges that the Common Agricultural Policy faces in the near future and to the major directions of development and reform of the years to come. Today we are called, as a country system, to imagine medium and long-term responses on a large scale, but also to give instruments in favour of the agricultural sector, so that farmers can take immediate advantage of all the opportunities guaranteed by the CAP. Italy has always been the protagonist of the agricultural sector in Europe and in the world and must be able to make its voice heard and to be even more present today in the year of the G7 presidency as a guide for a definitive and lasting agricultural rebirth. [[Applause from Senator Count.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u31	Mr President, we have finally, and hopefully finally, reached the debate on this amendment to the CAP. I say this because, of course, we know that this debate has already been postponed several times, almost as if the importance of our agriculture was not on the agenda (yes, because we are talking about this). Among other things, I welcome the determination by Deputy Minister Olivero towards the European Commission. I would like the same determination to be applied by the Minister, who is once again absent from this debate: he will be doing some new and further promotion for the PD, given what happened last week. You see, Mr President, Minister Martina (I think that's what he calls himself, even if we don't even remember his face anymore), instead of attending the annual assembly of Cisambiente he was at a public meeting of his party, the Democratic Party, right in my country, in Tradate, at the same times, at the same days and at the same times. It is clear that he is more interested in acting as deputy secretary of Renzi than the Minister of Agriculture. As we said, we need to take action on this European Agricultural Policy (CAP) to change it, because - as we know - there is a lot of disappointment on the part of our farmers. There are elements that do not give us confidence, so the government needs to commit itself in a very determined way. For example, there is an approach that wants the contributions, which are now lost, to be passed into financial instruments. Our agriculture is not in need of subsidies, it is in need of support; it is certainly not an agriculture that we want and must submit to assessments, considerations and financial choices, otherwise we would put a noose around our small businesses that are not structured in order to support funding and above all to be able to enter into relations with credit institutions, as set out in the new CAP. In this regard, we must also take into account the difficult situations in which our agriculture operates: often and willingly it is a pioneering agriculture, an agriculture that does not abandon the territory, where farming is practically uneconomic. I read directly from the report that the vice-president of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development Paolo De Castro left us when he came to the Senate and the House to talk about the amendment of the CAP. In this report there is a very effective summary table. Mr President, in France there is an agricultural area of 27 million hectares, while in Italy there are about 12 million hectares. But it is the number of farms that impresses, because in France there are 472,000 farms, while in Italy there is a million farms. This gives the idea of the different structure of a farm and the different relationship between the farm itself and the territory. It is clear that, when the CAP is being amended, the Government must commit itself to ensuring that the rewarding elements take account of these differences. If, on the other hand, the CAP is built and modelled on the basis of agricultural structures which are not ours and which do not take into account the great added value that Italian agriculture gives to all the European product, this means that our agriculture is destined to perish. For the same reason, account must be taken not only of the quantity of square metres or hectares of farm agriculture, but also of the amount of people employed. I quote from the same report. In France there are about 27 million hectares of cultivated land, while in our country there are about 12 million. On the one hand, 472,000 companies operate, while on the other, one million. It is clear that these figures say that Italian agriculture must be considered for its peculiarity and not for its extension. Often, Mr President, it is paradoxical that the same titles of conduct become an obstacle to access to funds.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u32	In conclusion, I would remind the Government that in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production a resolution was unanimously adopted asking the Commission to undertake to amend our legislation, so that the title of conduct is no longer a limit to the perception of European contributions. Unfortunately, even today, on this subject, we are waiting for action by the Government. Let us not let bureaucracy stifle our agriculture! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u33	Mr President, with regard to the common agricultural policy and the related motion tabled by us, it must be pointed out that, since the establishment of the European Economic Community, agriculture has been an economic sector of Community importance. It is no coincidence that the CAP was the first and foremost truly common policy supported at European level. According to our vision, however, the CAP - despite the profound changes that have occurred over the years - is still suffering from some critical issues. Firstly, the problem of the unbalanced distribution of aid has not been solved. Before the 1992 reform, 80% of support went to 20% of farmers, while after the completion of this reform (i.e. in 2005), 22% of farmers received 78% of aid. More or less unchanged are also the contradictions linked to the excessive industrialization of agricultural production processes: monocultures and intensive farms continue to be widely practiced and agri-environmental measures have been used more by the less favoured forms of agriculture than those with a high degree of intensity which, as is clear, would have needed more. Among the new problems, it should be said that the system of payment of direct income aid, having been conceived in relation to historical data relating to the possession of inputs (i.e. aid per hectare or per head of livestock) has facilitated the development of inevitable income phenomena, which only recently begin to be considered as being to be corrected. The two-pillar system, although to a lesser extent, has caused the historical imbalance between price policy and structural policy, so much so that, even today, rural development policies are still reserved for less than 25% of Community resources, i.e. less than the minimum level indicated for structural interventions at the Stresa Conference in 1958. The multifunctional model that the current CAP states it wants to support does not actually refer to agriculture that can perform more functions than production. This forgets that environmental protection is ensured by the presence of agricultural activities, which use in a responsible and sustainable way the resources available and not by unproductive forms, which are limited to carrying out the practices necessary to receive Community aid. The current CAP framework, precisely because it is driven by globalisation, is no longer a policy that can be regarded as the synthesis of the demands from the Member States. This, among other things, raises important problems with regard to the democratic decision-making processes which, in fact, have moved from the Community seat to the international fora, where the European Union negotiates through the Commission, which is all but an institution that meets the rules of democratic representation. The total dependence of the CAP on WTO rules - including those on intellectual property, which have led to the formation of oligopolies in the biotechnology sector and, therefore, of the main agricultural inputs - has posed serious problems for the maintenance on the territory of specialized agricultural activities (which are increasingly exposed to global competition) and of agriculture in the internal areas where, often, there is nothing left but to give up production and receive Community aid granted on the basis of cross-compliance. It must also be borne in mind that the current economic and social difficulties are not the causes of the crisis that we are experiencing, but the effects of the application of a model of development of liberal and industrialist type that, in the context of globalisation, has been able to operate for about twenty-five years, in an absolutely uncontrolled way (and therefore not governed) by politics. For these reasons, future growth paths need to be referred to an alternative model to what has led us to the current disaster and, with regard to the role of agriculture, there is a concrete possibility that it will become the catalyst of territorial development models based on the creation of widespread well-being (so as to be as inclusive as possible) through the exploitation of local resources. In conclusion, only in this way will the CAP be able to constitute concrete support for the primary sector and, at the same time, a truly integral part of our national policy, precisely because it is deployed in favour of the territory and the production activities related to it. [[Applause from Senators Gaetti and Nugnes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u34	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u35	Mr President, I have listened to a number of speeches which deal with various aspects of the many problems that our agriculture has been putting up with for too many years now. I must also point out that while on the one hand, on this list of wishes, there are - as I said - many of the points that agriculture would like to see achieved, it is also true that then there must be the will on the part of the Government to find the correct, effective and fast forms to be able to achieve them, otherwise we run the risk of talking to each other, to talk to us - as they say - with a result almost useless in this comparison. I should also like to point out once again that Mr Martina is absent, without taking anything away from the figure of the Deputy Minister, who perhaps has the blame, in a positive sense, for being too present, to the extent that we consider him to be one of us and there is a certain ease of dialogue. But the Minister is missing, he is the great absentee in our country's agricultural policy. Perhaps he too is influenced by this tendency to absenteeism which is manifesting today; but if there can be a sort of freedom of choice in the citizens, on the part of the Minister, instead, there must be an obligation, a duty to be present. Having said that, I would like to briefly mention the description of the farmer's family, which often coincides with the farm: not the one in the broad sense, as is often the case in many activities, but the farm. What does that mean? The agricultural sector is indeed a farm, but it must not only deal with a market which is punishing it in a shameful way - and then I will mention a few things about it - and follow the problems of the markets, but it must also deal with something which cannot be affected, namely meteorology, weather events, disasters, the damage that can be suffered and the regular productions that are normally planned on an agricultural holding. In addition to this variable, which cannot be pretended to exist, there is a market that penalises our agriculture. Above all, there is also the bureaucracy, the delays in agricultural payments by AGEA, the delays in the choices and negotiations on which we have debated several times. Yesterday I was talking to people and also to former colleagues in the sector, and today in this House it seems like talking about something that does not belong to us. Instead, we realize that it belongs to us when we sit down at the table and eat carrots or potatoes. You must know that today farmers are shredding these products, because there is no price, there is no market; they have invested money but are crying in seeing buried and shredded the product they have cultivated with care and love, because the market does not guarantee them an adequate price for which they are forced to give up the fruit of their land. With this flash I mean that farmers, young people and all those who are investing do not need a bureaucracy that constantly leads them to wait for help that is not coming. So, what do you ask in this beautiful list of wishes? What do we ask the Common Agricultural Policy and the Minister who is not there (but fortunately there is the Deputy Minister)? We call for transparency in the markets; we call for the same rules; we call for a product to be valued and guaranteed; we call for dignity for farmers and young farmers who want to invest in agriculture. We also ask for security, but not in the future (because nobody has it), but security in the rules: rules that today are not there, as well as there is no respect for those figures that instead we should always thank, because they are not only individuals who do business, but people who preserve our territory and our environment and who are today working to enhance the territory and the environment, also through the farm. Therefore, let us seriously consider, Mr Deputy Minister always present (as opposed to the Minister), that agriculture needs to be heard, needs certain times and does not need bureaucracy. [[Applause from Senators Marin and Pagnoncelli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u37	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject on the agenda concerns the future of the European Union and, in particular, one of the historic policies on which the process of European integration has been based. As has already been pointed out punctually in the motions just outlined by the various rapporteurs, on 31 December 2020 the 2014-2020 programme will cease and perhaps, for the following period, the existence of a common agricultural policy itself, as evidenced by the fact that several European States are of the idea of reducing the budget allocated to the agricultural sector, currently amounting to around 38% of the entire budget of the European Community. There are even those who propose that the management of agriculture be brought back to the national level. In itself, the Commission seems willing to continue on the path initiated since 1962, so much so that President Juncker has said that the key words of the future in agriculture are "simplification" and "modernisation" while Commissioner Hogan has specified that the CAP will have to guarantee some basic rules in order to ensure a greater resilience of the markets, a more sustainable agricultural production and a better generational turnover. On the other hand, the CAP has been one of the main policies of the European common market and has made it possible to achieve the food independence of our continent. A goal that very often is taken for granted but that, in fact, so obvious is not. Moreover, although it accounts for less than 2% of GDP and 5% of employment in the European Union as a whole, it must be stressed that in absolute terms it is a sector that affects about 22 million farmers and creates 44 million jobs. There are many factors that can affect the choices to be made in defining the new programme for the years 2020-2026. Two, in particular, are, in my view, worthy of consideration: on the one hand, the United Kingdom's exit from the Union; on the other hand, the economic policy choices of the American administration. At present, it is likely that the CAP will not be drastically downgraded, but it is realistic to expect a reduction in allocated resources and a consequent reduction in objectives and instruments compared to the recent past. Here comes the UK's exit from the European Union. Beyond the long run and the impact it will have on the whole process of European integration, the exit of the United Kingdom will certainly have the effect of changing the balance of the Community budget. On the other hand, and at the same time, however, the absence of the United Kingdom is in favour of maintaining the Common Agricultural Policy, since the British prefer a markedly liberal approach and therefore contrary both to the intervention of support and regulation of prices, and to policies of protection of quality and origin, seen by them as a vulnus to the mechanisms of the free market. Potentially decisive for the future of the common agricultural policy will then be the economic policy choices made by the American administration of Trump, which has never made a mystery of its protectionist ideas. A return to protectionist policies would certainly not be positive for our country, because of the role that the agri-food sector has always played in the framework of our trade balance. Agricultural exports were crucial, so much so as to be a driving force in the years of the crisis, thanks to the fact that the sector has shown a strong competitiveness in high quality products. Protectionism would not be good either for the possible effects it would have on the internal market. It is true that customs duties make imports more expensive - for the benefit of domestic production - but they also have similar effects on our products, whose penetration into foreign markets would at this point be hindered. Overall, the general impression is that from these choices the trade balance would be severely penalized. In such a political and economic context, there is a clear need to intervene in the agricultural sector with well-targeted measures. The reform of the Common Agricultural Policy must now, more than ever, respond to the new challenges that the recent Community and international landscape call us to face. The European Union, with measures that enhance the territorial distinctiveness of production, must reward the employment of rural areas by excluding unsustainable incomes and, on the contrary, by aiming at a system of qualitative rewards. The aim is to ensure that the country takes full advantage of the opportunities to support the agri-food sector offered by the Common Agricultural Policy, with particular reference to the greening component introduced as a premium system, in addition to the direct basic premium, for the environmental improvement service performed by the operator of the sector. How, then, can we intervene? What are the priorities? The time available to me is running out, so I try to make a brief list of the objectives that, in my opinion, need to be achieved. First of all, it is necessary to strengthen all measures that exclude income from the benefits of the Common Agricultural Policy, rewarding against entrepreneurial and innovative capacity, in order to obtain high quality standards of products and producers in order to regain attractiveness on international markets. It is also necessary to implement the productions of national agri-food excellence by supporting and protecting the distinctiveness of the products made in Italy. It is necessary to create a widespread system of coordination of specific schemes in the agro-environmental field, thus enhancing the peculiarities of the individual territories and allowing the cooperation and aggregation of enterprises, in order to facilitate access to support measures for all the operators involved, many in our small country. Finally, we need to promote generational replacement - a battle that we have been supporting for a long time - through access to specific measures to support innovative entrepreneurship carried out by young people and women agricultural entrepreneurs. Finally, the system of direct payments, in particular those relating to the greening premium, which has proved to be incisive and difficult to implement in recent years, must be streamlined because of a cumbersome bureaucratic system and restrictive selective criteria. I hope that this is the direction we will be able to follow and support. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u38	The debate is closed. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-836.ana.u39	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
