ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u4	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2085 already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 20 April the rapporteurs carried out the oral report. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, let us be silent in order to allow those who speak to speak and those who are interested in listening to him: I therefore ask you to dissolve the huts and move them out of the Chamber. Please, Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u9	Madam President, today we are starting to talk strangely about this draft competition law here in the Senate, after it has been stuck in the Commission for nine months: once it has been approved in that Chamber, it has been a real birth. Born in March 2015, then more than two years ago, the measure was presented to the House. This is the draft competition law and one should be launched every year: however, if this is the level of competition that we want to guarantee to our country, I would say that we are really bad. We do not understand the reason for not bringing such a measure to the House: probably there was no convergence between the many interests it had to deal with. In order to go into detail, the measure deals with many aspects, but I will mention only one in particular: in Article 42, introduced in the Commission to the Senate, the measures relating to the distribution of natural gas and, above all, the competitions for the management of gas distribution networks in municipalities throughout the country are expected. We know that the networks have been divided into 171 ATEM (minimum territorial scope) and are particularly important in terms of long-term management and that, in a surreptitious manner, legislation has provided for the possibility of alienating gas networks. I remember that the gas networks were built with taxpayers' money. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I beg the government representative, undersecretary Gentile, to stand at the government desk. CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, there is also a desire in this House to speak and to reason, as I have already said, given the very long time that has elapsed before the measure arrived in the Chamber, although I understand that it has some particularly complex aspects. I'd like to go back to the subject. We were talking about the competitions for the management of gas networks and 171 minimum territorial areas, which essentially concern the territories of neighbouring municipalities, which compete for the management of the network. Often the network itself, whether owned by municipalities, municipalized or former municipalities, public or partially public companies or with prevalent public capital, is also sold to private individuals. Already this is a particular thing because it is not provided for by the law; among other things, it is a fact that has been talked about for many years. A legal interpretation, according to what has been reported to us by the Ministry in response to a question, allows the alienation of the networks. The particular aspect is that we intervene on the law by Article 42 establishing that the value of the network is different depending on whether it is owned by a private individual or a public body. In this regard we have two terms, one is VIR (Industrial Value Residuo) and the other is RAB (Regulatory Asset Base), but, without entering specifically, we can simply say that there is a great difference in value: if the network is owned by a Municipality, the value that is recognized to it is substantially much lower than the value of a network owned by a private individual, and this seems to me an absolute madness. The text under consideration tries to put a partial limit: it says that there are values that must not exceed the 20 percent difference, since in some cases the difference may be greater than five or six times. We asked that, in the event that the networks were owned by the municipalities, the method of calculation should be unique, i.e. that the value of the network should be calculated in the same way. But the government did not want to hear our reasons: it is probably more interested in doing pleasures to private companies than to municipalities, which also largely administers. Moreover, we also asked clearly and explicitly that, at the expiry of the concessions, the gas distribution networks and facilities at the end of the concession could not be disposed of and that, indeed, they should constitute unavailable assets of the State. It seems absurd to us that such strategic elements as gas networks can be handed over to private individuals. There is also a rumor that there are non-Italian companies, and not even European companies, particularly interested in entering the sector and acquiring a part of these networks, which means managing users and meters, and therefore entering the real life of people. When foreign companies outside Europe are interested in these races, should we not stop for a moment and wonder if we are doing the right thing in the interests of citizens? That is why we asked for action. We had also tabled an amendment - we know that you will put the trust therefore the problem does not exist - asking, with regard to the companies participating in the competition, if united in ATI (Temporary Association of Enterprises), that at least the main part of the know-how and the financial capacity were owned by the leading company. Otherwise, once again we finance the system: we will have a finance company and other companies that will manage networks, and this is inconceivable because we must ensure that finance does not enter into network management, otherwise this state will never change it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u10	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u11	Madam President, it has been recalled that this bill arrives in the Assembly two years after the Renzi Government's launch. It is the first draft law on competition on the market, a rule that, in the intention of the legislator of 2009, should have been annual, so we can say that it comes with a seven-year delay. However, Mr Cioffi, we are not in a bad position if, as the rapporteur, Mr Marino, mentioned in his report, we are the sixth OECD country in terms of market opening. The fact is that in recent years pro-competitive measures have been conveyed with other legislative instruments, especially with the law of stability. Some of the provisions of this text have also been anticipated in recent months by other legislative measures. In particular, from the last governments, from Monti onwards, there has been an action to open up our market. It is important - I do not hide it - that there is an annual bill; it is important that we return to the spirit of the founding law; it is important to take stock every year, also on the basis of the indications of the Competition Authority's report, and to introduce new incentives for market opening. However, it is not easy and this explains the delays of this rule, which are precisely in resistance, as Senator Cioffi recalled. There is, however, a sidereal distance between the rhetoric in the Assembly of the 5 Star Movement and the proposals that it makes on this bill: the 5 Star Movement, in fact, has set itself to defend precisely those interests that are engraved by norms that tend to open the market. I do not go into the details of the measures, because the two rapporteurs have done so admirably. I just want briefly, to prove the truth of what I just said, to tell my little experience. I am a lawyer and in my 30 years of professional experience I have never defended an insurance company. Never. I never had an assignment from an insurance company, because I don't deal in road accidents and the few cases that happened to me saw me on the side of the damaged. And yet I got an entire page of the Daily Fact, accusing me of giving a gift of 1.5 billion to insurance companies, being I a lawyer, insurance lawyer. Why? For an amendment, which did not add anything to Article 8, it was simply explanatory and clarifying the text, which says that non-capital damage is one. And not only does this text say it, but the United Sections of the Court of Cassation have said it since 2008: the non-capital damage is one and the many subheadings built by the fantasy of jurisprudence and doctrine are, in fact, subheadings, because the damage is unique and must be estimated on the basis of the famous tables of the Observatory on civil justice of the Court of Milan. I just said that the damage, so valued, is all-inclusive. This would not remove anything from the damages damages; of course, it would reduce the litigation. In fact, if the damage is predetermined in a certain way, when we do not discuss the an, the if, the fact, the responsibility, but only the quantification, there is no need to go to court and the insurances agree with each other. No, you don't. The Daily Fact shows in full the positions of an organization of lawyers who bombarded me with e-mails for that amendment and does not report the positions - but as well as the press in general - of consumer associations that all (I could quote them, but I do not do it for brevity) say one thing obvious: if the damage is predetermined and if there are objective, certain and uniform criteria for the entire national territory, the litigation is lowered, expenses are lowered and policies are reduced, because in this way a gift to insurance is technically impossible. The insurances pay the biggest costs to the policies (but they do it by law, for the very keeping of the system, because the insurances cannot fail, otherwise they would damage the same insured ones), so if we reduce the costs for the insurances reducing the litigation maybe we would touch the interests of the lawyers (which are then my own category), but we would do the interests of the consumers. The only difference is that the category of lawyers has the strength to be in the newspapers and to be supported by the 5 Star Movement, sending e-mails because they support their amending proposals, with which they even want to eliminate the direct compensation of the insurance and predict the need to go to court anyway. It was even intended to prevent the insurance from granting a discount to the injured persons who made use of the wheelchair owners indicated by them, in order to protect - even in that case - the category of wheelchair owners. On the other hand, I think it is common experience that scams are made with inflated estimates, sometimes even with inflated invoices. Therefore, it is desirable to put in condition the insurance company to be able to make a discount (not obliging to turn to a defined coachman) to those who make use of a trusted body shop in order to eliminate or reduce the scams, in order to decrease the costs and the policies. According to the amendments tabled by colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, instead, it is even necessary to make mandatory, for insurance, the communication that the injured person can avail of any repairer and is not obliged to address repairers indicated by the insurance. This is the difficulty of bringing such measures to this House, because it affects established interests, which have the strength to organize consensus. The 5 Star Movement immediately learned the lesson, because it has placed itself on every occasion in defense of guilds, like that of taxi drivers, even in battles of greater rearguard, because the organized consent brings votes, while the widespread consent has no voice in the newspapers, as I tried to demonstrate just now, and does not carry in itself votes. This is the difficulty, but it is also the duty of a reformist and serious party such as the Democratic Party to take measures, even unpopular, which, however, in the long run, but sometimes in the immediate future, produce effects of improving the quality of services for consumers and lowering costs. In conclusion, as the rapporteur, Senator Luigi Marino, has already done, I would like to address a prayer, in agreement with other opposition groups as well, because there is a need, in my opinion, to return to the Commission to review certain aspects, including the dates, which have now been exceeded by the time that has become necessary for the measure to come to the House. I believe that even a sitting of the Commission can help to improve this text so that we can return to this House immediately afterwards. I therefore repeat this request to the Government, already made by the rapporteurs, to be able to return to the Commission for an update of this text which, of course, after two years and nine months, i.e. since it was voted by the Senate Commission, needs some adjustment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u12	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u13	Madam President, I have not understood whether the request to bring the measure back to the Commission, made by Senator Scalia, is official or part of a speech that has been made in general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u14	This is a general debate, because no requests for suspension can be made at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u15	CASTALDI (M5S). Therefore, with the same vehemence with which he attacked the 5 Star Movement on a subject that will eventually explain Senator Puglia, it would be appropriate to tell the citizens who listen to us that this is a way of circumventing the Assembly because the request is not advanced in the general debate but, if there is the will, it is brought to the vote. However, as Senator Scalia is part of the Democratic Party, he knows very well that the majority, if they wish, can bring this measure back to the Commission. I would like to ask you a few more minutes to make my speech in general debate, perhaps taking it away from the time available to my colleagues. The bill for the market and competition, of government initiative, arrives in the Chamber about a year and a half after its arrival in 10a The Commission, because of the government's continuing stop and go on the substance of the measures, the continuous cuts and sewn of amendments and the - soon forgotten - very important resignation of Minister Guidi. In the DEF it sounds like a mockery of the Government's explicit intent as indispensable for the quick green light to the bill for competition. According to the Government, opening up different sectors to the market is one of the priorities. The most appropriate instrument to be entrusted with the next steps in the field of liberalization should also be quickly defined. We'd be here, in theory, talking about competition. Yes, because, despite the name, it can be said without a shadow of a doubt that this is yet another bill from which can only show the will of the government not to listen to the voices of citizens and consumers, but, if possible, once again, to strengthen those of the lobby. A measure that contains favours to a number of well-identified lobbyists, against the real interests and the protection of consumers: from notaries to pharmacists, insurance companies to ENEL and other electricity sellers, favored with the unacceptable abolition of the protected market in the energy sector (which sees a conflict of interest even more serious than that on Tempa Rossa, perhaps already forgotten, always by the former Minister Guidi and his family). We have stigmatized the extreme slowness, also because of the obvious inconsistencies, contradictions and differences recorded within the majority, which marked the examination of the measure, as if the text, then, did not have a father and a political mother. Slowness that has not served to rebalance the bill in the direction of not brazenly facilitating insurance, not to allow pharmacies to continue to have the monopoly on the sale of C-band drugs, to abolish the patent linkage (the rule that hinders the marketing of generic medicines after the expiry of the patent), to maintain the regime of greater protection in the electric market (for households and small and medium-sized enterprises that have not chosen a supplier in the free market) both for natural gas and for electricity, not to abandon the defenses of narrow interest groups against consumers-citizens. The Competition and Market Authority has on several occasions reiterated that the public interest in the protection of competition is expressly covered by the Italian Constitution and binds the work of the Member States of the European Union, which, in particular since the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty, are required to direct their economic policies to respect free competition. Does it seem to you free competition as stated above? I don't think so. Even the President of the 10th Commission, Senator Mucchetti, at a certain stage of the examination of the measure denounced the inability of the Government, not only of the Ministry of Economic Development, to respond in a reasonable time to the issues raised during the examination in the Commission and on which the rapporteurs carried out a heavy and excellent work, as well as to recall that during the examination so far carried out on the amendments it was from several parties, and not uncommonly, considered instrumental, the use of opinions contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, which are often linked to an absence of technical report that conceals, in reality, an opposition to the substance of the matter. And to say that, at least in intentions, the annual law on the market and competition should serve to remove regulatory barriers to market opening, to promote competition and to guarantee consumer protection, including in application of the principles of European Union law, as well as European competition policies. The adoption of an annual law for the market and competition is provided for by Article 47 of Law No 99 of 2009, with the specific aims of putting in place a periodic activity to remove the many obstacles and brakes, normative and not, that remain in the markets of the products and the services, on the basis of the specific indications of the Authority guarantor for the competition and the market. On the contrary, we think that in the text, as it emerged from the Commission, there are still barriers to competition, in which transparency is insufficient or demand is cast, also in the light of the recommendations of the European Commission and the other international institutions on competition and market opening. The measure in fact intervenes in some of the sectors indicated by the Authority, providing for measures for insurance (with particular regard to the field of RC car), for pension funds, for communications, for postal services, for the energy and the distribution in net of fuels for automotive, for banks, for the professions, for pharmaceutical distribution. In the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies have been approved also measures that intervene in ulterior areas and different from those previously mentioned, as wished just from the Authority guarantor in the report that it has sent in July 2014 to the Parliament and the Government. Let's clear the field now. On the one hand, we can only confirm the judgment of our colleagues in the House that this is the measure of the missed opportunities. After months and months of discussion and a significant number of hearings, after the challenge between the Ministries, aimed at defending each one's own market (including the electoral reference market), after the incessant requests for modification, the text comes out watered down and extremely weak for the purposes of growth, competition and, above all, consumer protection. However, we should all know that development is not only achieved through competitive measures: removing competitive barriers is a precondition for achieving the objective of economic growth. The European Commission, in its 2016 report, effectively rejected the measure (which it considered disappointing), stating that it could have been much more ambitious. It does not cover important areas, which remain over-protected, while numerous provisions of the draft law have been partly mitigated in the course of the parliamentary debate. The barriers to access to certain professions remain strong and there are unjustified exclusive rights. In particular, it is highlighted that service operators receive concessions for the use of public infrastructure without competitive procedures. The report also states that in Italy there are restrictions on licensing and insurance requirements, on the characteristics of shareholders and on voting rights. And, given the softening we had in the Commission during the parliamentary process, the rules adopted only partially deal with these bottlenecks. Unjustified exclusive rights in several directions are still in force. Of course, we are at least partially satisfied that, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, there will be clear rules in the jungle of telephone services, as well as in relation to car RC tariffs. The change of telephone operator from now on can also be done online and the consumer will have to give an explicit documented consent for the activation of telephone services or electronic communications, at a fee or not. The rates of the RC car, divided by classes and subclasses, will have to be homogeneous between all the insurances, so that, in the passage from one insurance to the other, the customer does not see changed the tariff, while remaining in the same class. Thanks to our amendment to Article 38, insurance companies, in addition to banking institutions, will also have to provide customers with assistance services at the price of ordinary urban charges (not increased), also valid for calls from mobile devices. Another rule for the benefit of Italian consumers, another step towards truly efficient services and on the part of citizens, enters into the competition bill: local public transport companies will have to provide for the possibility of buying tickets online as well. These are just a few examples of our way of working for citizens and improving their lives. In the face of all this, however, a genuine wall has been erected on as many proposals as those concerning the portability of insurance contracts, the prevention and contrast of fraudulent behaviour, the free choice of the policyholder and transparency, the contrast to the delay in payments in insurance matters, changes to the code of consumption on the supply of electronic applications and related marketplaces, the remodulation of fixed and variable components of network and system charges, closed distribution systems, freedom of supply of fuels, and also in the matter of electronic payments and costs related to payment services, on the provisions on the establishment of virtual associations, on the matter of combating the abuse of professions, on the sale to pharmacies of medicinal products of belt C, incentives for the development of web applications for the taxi service, on the liberalization of promotional sales. What is derived from the general analysis of the measure? That the measures initially envisaged are also diluted in the parliamentary passage in respect of corporate logics which have prevailed in some areas over the general interest. And we are very sorry for the citizens, but we are not surprised that this state of affairs has been substantially contributed by the two main parties that support the Government. But we think that we could, indeed we had to, do more. No wonder, I repeat, that the Renzi governments before and Gentiloni Silveri later proved once again that they did not want to displease the lobbyists. Only two examples, on which my colleagues will be more specific. I'm talking about drugs. I believe that the text which was laid down in the Commission has deteriorated considerably in the area of rules on the exercise of pharmacy by capital companies. I refer, in particular, to the prohibition of control, directly or indirectly, by the same person, of more than 20% of the pharmacies of the same Region or Autonomous Province. A 20% regional ceiling allows an extremely small number of companies to control the complex of Italian pharmacies that are commercially attractive. It is clear that there was a need for a much more rigorous stake, as well as not wanting to abolish the patent linkage. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u16	Senator Castaldi, the presidency has given you a little more time, but now I must invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u17	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I need three more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency grants them to you. CASTALDI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. It is also quite clear that, with the entry of capital companies among the holders of pharmacies, one can only strengthen once more the mercantile aspect of the commercial part of pharmacies with an opening of pharmacies to capital companies. 10:08 a.m. (Castaldi followed). And who do you think can benefit from this? Certainly not to consumers and citizens. We opposed the commercial drift of pharmacies to introduce concrete elements and provisions of effective liberalisation: but there was nothing to be done. The dynamics that have emerged in recent years on the partial liberalization of the sale of drugs and the increase of parapharmacies thus show how liberalisation not only improved the service for users, but also stimulated competition and encouraged traditional pharmaceutical operators to develop other markets and experiment with new services, with very positive repercussions for the community. Buying medicines out of the classic pharmacy channel brought in 2015 Italian families a savings of as much as 36 million euros. If parapharmacies are also allowed the sale of C-range drugs, which are subject to medical prescription, but at the expense of the patient, the savings for citizens would go from 500 to 900 million euros per year (and you do not) with the additional benefits of pricing on all other self-medication medicines already sold outside the pharmacies. It is therefore a question of defending the rights of citizens who, almost ten years after the famous Bersani Decree on liberalisation, are still deprived of the opportunity to save money on the purchase of products for their health. And I'll finish with the energy. Experience as a result of the start of liberalisation shows that the measures adopted so far have not been able to trigger a genuine competitive process that favours the final consumer, in fact creating a crystallised situation of local monopolies. In view of the experience of recent years, we reiterate the need, first of all, to provide for a clear separation between the various activities covered by the energy distribution and supply process if effective competition in the energy sales sector is to be achieved quickly. With this measure, the Government unfortunately launches the final attack on 20 million users and 4 million small and medium-sized enterprises, canceling the protected market and making the cost of the bill splashed up. Starting from the current regulatory environment, on which it seems frankly unthinkable to go back, except to damage the current level of service and consumer expectations, there are still plenty of room to bring immediate benefits to citizens, to further stimulate operators and competition, to reduce costs and increase convenience. Today, in our country, the protection of general interests needs to be extended, while the protection of monopolies or position annuities must be strongly fought and reduced. We must break the constraints, but with certain rules. Our country needs freer markets, in every context and reality, to defend consumers. We cannot appreciate, Mr President, a text which does not lead to an increase in the benefits for users and to a balanced development of the market and the business system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thank you, Mr President, for giving me more time to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u18	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u19	Mr President, it has already been said that the annual competition law comes to this House after nineteen months of stay in the Economic Development Commission, in which we must acknowledge the rapporteurs that they have worked with great determination and patience, even though they have received many ideas, many proposals and, above all, resisting much pressure. In fact the resistances encountered by categories and individual industrial subjects have been very strong and obviously not always compensated and neutralized with the necessary timeliness by the Government-Parliament system. It took nineteen months to achieve a result which I consider to be positive overall. However, we must also remember that this slowness has taken place in view of the fact that all the financial documents presented in Parliament or in Brussels by the Italian institutions and, last but not least, the DEF that we have just adopted have always indicated competition policy as a priority action to boost growth. If we then think that since, in 2009, with Article 47 of Law No 99, this new institute was introduced into our system, the annual competition law - the one we are discussing today, if ever it really will see the light and we will only know this living because after the passage to the Senate there will be that in the Chamber - will see its first application after nine years. I believe that, then, a reflection is required. In other words, it is a question of assessing whether the annual competition law really is a useful and effective instrument or should be rethought. In other words, if it were not to accept every year the indications and suggestions that the Antitrust offers to the legislator, it would not be transformed despite an omnibus measure, to which it is postponed, in order to then be never delayed, the treatment of many and thorny questions relating to the most desperate sectors whose solution would reduce positions of rent, closure and blocks to new forms of economic activity so that an institution born to make more dynamic and efficient our economy, turns, in the end, into an instrument of conservation. It is also true, however, that the law adopted in this way contains, in some difficult areas, some delegations on which I would then call on the rapporteurs to clarify the point of their duration. I believe that if this measure ever returns to another step in the Commission, the delegations, in order to be credible, should at least fall within the natural end of the legislature. In fact, if we go beyond the end of the parliamentary term on very sensitive issues, that means that nothing will be done about it. It is also true, however, that such a broad-spectrum law, addressing important areas under the exclusive competition profile, risks, as it cannot contain organic reforms of entire sectors, to appear partial, perhaps almost punitive, because it cannot accompany the pro-competitive measures with other measures of support, compensation or incentive, capable of rebalancing the process of opening up to the market. The point is that in Italy, after a phase between the end of the 1990s and the beginning of the 2000s, important interventions in strategic sectors, such as telecommunications, energy, electricity and gas and trade, interventions that have led Italy to be among the countries most open to competition (and in those years we have seen, in fact, positive results on tariffs and growth), in the last decade the pro-competitive policy seems to have been bogged down. Especially when trying to intervene in sectors where players are medium-small, competition becomes less popular, because it immediately affects the interests of the incumbents, without the newcomers, consumers and potential new employees immediately and concretely perceive the advantage. There is therefore a strong political mismatch in terms of consensus that - as has been said - risks being amplified by the structure and limits of the annual competition law. I do not have an answer, but I believe that a reflection is required on the suitability of the instrument to fully pursue the purpose for which it was created. Having said that, I would like to make a few substantive points, in associating myself with the positive assessments that have been highlighted by some of my colleagues, for the interventions in some areas, in particular in the start of the exit from the market of greater protection. I do not understand why the colleague of the 5 Star Movement claims that we will go towards a general increase in tariffs, when the goal should be exactly the opposite, and the warning of this is that we delay the start of this process in mid-2018. If it were so beneficial for rents and for higher tariffs, I believe that large energy players would have accelerated entry into force rather than tending to delay it to an excessive extent, in my view. But this is an indicator of the effectiveness of the measures that have been introduced, accompanied, I believe, positively by the process of information and consumer awareness. In fact, another cultural fact that is lacking in our system and in our country is that the consumer is not aware enough and therefore risks not fully grasping the advantages of the opening of markets. I will also not dwell on insurance measures, where I believe that good work has been done, both in terms of increasing transparency and increasing competition, as well as in the fight against fraud. Similarly, some useful steps have been taken in the modernisation of certain service sectors, such as the forensic profession, allowed in company form. Therefore, after stressing the positive aspects of this measure, which have led to a great deal of work by the rapporteurs, I shall, if I may, focus on some points, which I think are critical and which I have already had occasion to stress during the debate: the first point is that of medicines. The issue of medicines has two sensitive aspects, in my opinion, the first of which is the liberalisation of C-belt medicines. I understand that this constraint is supported in the name of the fact that it is an income that allows the capillarity of the pharmacies network, but then we reason on a different system, for example on pharmacies by population groups, so that, where the pharmacy is also a social garrison, a reserve is maintained that allows that pharmacy to have a profit account that allows it to survive. On the other hand, I believe that this general reserve for pharmacies is a maintenance of income which is not justified by the system. I would also like to point out to future memory, if there were an opportunity for a subsequent intervention, that I have fought a lot on the issue of patent linkage, because there is an abuse of patent coverage. Only in Italy is there a link between the identification of merchantability by the Agency of the drug and patent coverage; the paths are different, because the patent covers the depreciation of the investment for research and marketing follows a path of scientific technical type. In Italy these two things overlapped with the result that presumptuously extends the patent coverage in order to exclude generic medicines of equal effectiveness from the trade and this involves an ultra-patentual annuity. Therefore, the absolutely right reasoning that the patent guarantees investment in research (of which we certainly need and want to support) is, in my opinion, unfounded, also because we do not understand why research is so developed in contexts in which this legislation, moreover repeatedly censored by the Competition and Market Authority, instead survives. Another point that I would like to make very briefly, because I had seen that many of my colleagues who have disappeared agreed, concerns individual and collective public transport. I know that we were waiting for a decree from the Government of the President of the Council of Ministers to regulate the issue of individual public transport. That decree is not yet in place and it seems to me that the matter has been dealt with by a suspended judgment of the civil court. I would point out that that judgment, which is very questionable because it uses the concept of unfair competition which in the present case does not have the conditions, risks taking action once again in a sector without any strategy. The delegation that has been given to the Government on this issue is absolutely generic and however postponed to twelve months, that is to say to a time that will come and that we are not able to evaluate. I would like to stress a very positive point and perhaps underestimated, but it is important for the economy of a small sector, but very rich for Italy as is that of the circulation of cultural goods. The lengthening of the period beyond which the free movement of cultural goods is allowed gives breath and oxygen to a market in which our artists are sacrificed and marginalized, and which instead feeds only a black market; I therefore believe that, in a country where creativity is so high, the lengthening of time beyond which the circulation of cultural goods is subject to regulation is very important. I will not dwell on anything else. My time is up. I hope that at last the draft law under consideration, with its positive parts and its shortcomings, will come to fruition. I would also urge my colleagues and the Department of Development and Economic Cohesion to reflect, if they consider it, on the first part of my speech, i.e. on the best strategy to pursue competition policy consistently in the major industrial or service sectors. Today, in order to intervene in services, which are sectors in which there are individual operators and where therefore the impact can be stronger from the point of view of the economy of the individual activities, we need to accompany the competition measures, because otherwise we will not be able to achieve a transformation and modernization. I just hope that with the omissions that are there we do not leave our country behind on the front of services to technological innovation. The last topic I refer to is that of online hotel reservations, which seems to me to have disappeared from the text. [[Comments of Senator Tomaselli]] No, I was wrong. The text is very complex and perhaps I have not read enough. I therefore delete this last remark. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u20	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that the presentation of the draft law for the market and competition is an annual obligation for the Government. Article 47 of Law No 99 of 23 July 2009 states that, within sixty days of the transmission of the annual report of the Antitrust, on a proposal from the Minister of Economic Development, the Government shall present the bill to the Chambers. It is important that the draft law contains rules of immediate application to remove barriers to market opening, promote the development of competition and ensure consumer protection. To this end, a number of delegations to the Government are required for the enactment of implementing legislative decrees. Well, in this regard we have the so-called decree Bersani of 2007, the so-called decree grows Italy adopted in 2012 by the Monti Government and the bill under consideration, presented to the Chamber of Deputies on 3 April 2015. 10:27 a.m. (Fucksia followed). Three hundred and fifty-four days have passed since the presentation of the annual draft law for the market and competition, the first of this legislature. There is therefore no urgency. I would remind you that the annual draft law for the market and competition is important to protect goods and services and not to restrict citizens' choice. I would like to focus on two issues. The draft law under consideration is very broad and I will first of all address the issue of professions, on which very bad work has been done. In fact, the transposition of the Bolkestein Directive has led to the entry of capital into professional studies, limiting the activity of individuals. It is also true that, as the Constitutional Court observes in judgment No 345 of 1995, in a complex society such as ours, professional orders are subordinate to the social interest and, therefore, to the complexity of this. It is also true, however, that the guarantees of citizens must be protected. I welcome Article 56 of the text proposed by the Commission, which restores the possibility for agrotechnics, as well as for engineers, architects, geometries and construction experts, to draw up cadastral acts both urban and rural. It should be recalled that this provision had been inserted in the conversion of the so-called Decree 1000 extensions of 2007. However, the provision was later declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, as it did not conform to the content of the provision. As a matter of fact, freelance professionals in the sector have not yet been able to do this work. The effect of this rule can only be beneficial, especially with regard to consumer prices. As provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 56, the professionals enrolled in orders and colleges are in fact obliged to indicate and communicate the titles owned and any specializations. I think that competition cannot be separated from obligations of transparency and certification of merit and quality. On the other hand, the text is very lacking (and much more could have been done) in terms of health and, in particular, the exercise of dental activity. In fact, Article 57 has been included in the text proposed by the Commission, which seeks in a very uncourageable way to regulate dental activity by companies. Before making regulatory decisions, it would be appropriate to analyse ISTAT's data on dental care, which describe a dramatic situation in which the economic crisis has reduced the possibility of access to dental care by citizens; the use of dental practitioners exercising the profession has decreased and young dental practitioners are increasingly having difficulty opening professional studies because of the high costs of the facilities. In this difficult context for dentists, private companies, owners of dental studies, are included. Other European countries have addressed this issue by addressing it in the key of private access, while maintaining a majority participation reserved for members of the register, such as in France, Great Britain and Denmark, or by reserving key management roles for dentists, as is the case in Germany. The National Association of Dental Doctors has rightly called for new rules to be heard in the Industry, Trade and Tourism Commission, to increase the level of transparency and professionalism of the dental market run by capital companies and stricter rules to combat professional abuse. On the one hand, Article 57 of the text proposed by the Commission begins to affect the complexity of the problem, providing, as a condition for the exercise of the activity, for the presence of a health director enrolled in the register, while for the polyspecialistic health structures the situation is similar, being required as a condition the appointment of a health director responsible for dental services who is enrolled in the same register. However, this was completely inadequate and more vigorous action would have been necessary: for example, as requested, it would have been useful for at least two thirds of the company's management staff to be composed of the members of the order, as is also the case elsewhere. This is not because our country must be against competition, but because we cannot degrade the constitutional right to health to a "three by two" offer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Madam President, I would very quickly like to make another reference to the issue of drugs, pharmacies and parapharmacies. I find it very curious that the 5 Star Movement, which always claims to be in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises and the protection of citizens, has placed itself in an ultraliberal perspective on this issue. It is in fact since the beginning of the year that emails come to us asking to extend the possibility of selling C-band drugs to the parapharmacies, which constitute an abnormal reality, which we only have in Italy: this is an absurdity that should not exist. However, this demand is out of time, it does not reduce costs and does not increase the protection of citizens' health. That is not what we need to intervene on, partly because this increases the risks and is not qualifying even for the pharmacist, who, as a pharmacist - not necessarily a pharmacy owner - goes on to be a salesman. This means that pharmacies - small and medium-sized enterprises - will disappear and be absorbed by the big trade chains, that is those supermarkets that the 5 Star Movement wants to keep closed on Sunday: this is the contradiction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you once again to conclude. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Let me conclude by saying that this is the contradiction that occurs when there is no clear position between citizens' rights, on the one hand, and the rights of large lobbyists, which are also those of large trade chains.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u22	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto complesso di Delebio, in the province of Sondrio, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u23	Mr President, since I am only going to comment quickly on Article 68 of this measure, I would ask the representatives of the Government and the Secretary-General to listen carefully: I am going to make a heartfelt appeal, because we all know that a large amendment has already been drafted (the Undersecretary is multitasking, so he speaks on the phone while listening to me, I am pleased). As I said, I would like to make a heartfelt appeal for Article 68 to be deleted from the maxi amendment if it were in it. And let me explain to you why, Mr Undersecretary: with Rule 68, your magnificent extensor - Senator Marcucci, whom I do not see in the Chamber at the moment - decided, in continuity with his Premier, Renzi, to give another beautiful blow to the protection of the artistic heritage in Italy, which is infatuated with Article 9 of the Constitution. What do you say in this article 68? Basically, masking everything with the will to simplify the procedures for the circulation of works of art abroad, you make a nice gift to the art dealers. This is Article 68: a very dangerous thing, because, among other things, in addition to taking care of Article 9 of the Constitution, it makes the market value of an object become an indicator of its cultural interest. We know, however, that the market value is obnoxious and subject to many factors, while the cultural value is quite different: Article 9 of the Constitution calls upon the State to guarantee this cultural value and the protection of the good to which this value is recognized. What happens with the new discipline that wants to introduce Article 68? They will no longer be able to leave Italy definitively, as today, all the bound goods and all the works included in the collections of public museums. What happens for privately owned works bound and collected in collections? According to Article 10 of the so-called Urban Code, what Article 68 intends to modify, today the works of art created by artists no longer living and who are more than fifty years old, if they have particularly important historical or artistic interest, are bound; or, regardless of the time of their realization, are bound if they are particularly significant for their references to the history, politics, literature or heritage of this country. With Article 68, however, before being exported, the works of art of art that are no longer alive and are over seventy years old may be examined for the opposition of the constraint (the threshold of age from fifty to seventy years is then shifted). They can be bound only if they have exceptional artistic, historical, archaeological interest, etc. - even here, we must understand the exceptionalness from which parameter is given - for integrity and completeness of the cultural heritage of the Nation, works between fifty and seventy years of artists still living. This article 68 - because the devil makes pots, but not lids - what else does he tell us? They are included in this new legislation - and here I thank Tomaso Montanari, because in his beautiful letter of reply to Minister Franceschini gives us this gem - also the objects of archaeological interest, which cannot be bound if made by still living artist. Oh, my God, how do you write a standard like that? But what is the archaeological object whose author can still be alive, Holy Christ? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And then the rule goes on: if performed for less than fifty years or between fifty and seventy years old. So: it's okay that the world runs fast and we're in the technological age, so everything is condemned to a fast obsolescence, but - Jesus Christ! - what is that object that is classified as "archaeological" because it is between fifty and seventy years old? Do you realize what standards you write? Such was the desire to make a pleasure to the art merchants, who, among other things, was introduced the threshold of value (and Minister Franceschini is also magnifying this further finding). Art dealers will be able to self-identify that some objects have a value of less than 13,500 euros, and Minister Franceschini is boasting that this threshold is the lowest in Europe. Congratulations! If it is the lowest in Europe, it means that they have a greater interest in protecting artistic objects in Europe. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. It's not the lowest. No, it's the lowest. In any case, the art dealer who will certify that these objects are less than EUR 13.500, will have to indicate them in a special list and may not make a request to the export office to sell and export them abroad. The superintendent may, if necessary, request the vision of some of these objects included in the above lists compiled by the art dealers, who - I repeat - will have self-certification of the values of the objects. I believe that this mechanism and this article 68 are to be expunged from the maxi amendment, otherwise we endanger most of our artistic heritage of the twentieth century and the objects that make up our cultural heritage: we think of all the furnishings, the silver objects, all this vast heritage. Mr Secretary, I would like to ask you, and I would like to make a heartfelt appeal to you to use this rule and to allow Parliament to reason on possible simplification of these procedures, giving everyone the opportunity to participate and not only to the art dealers who have been lucky enough to be able to speak with the Minister and of course also with Senator Marcucci. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u24	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u25	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the extraordinary European Council of 29 April 2017 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Government's information concerns the extraordinary EU summit to be held next Saturday with a single item on the agenda, namely the start of negotiations following Brexit. Basically, ten months after that vote at the end of June last year, the United Kingdom's separation from the Union is formally underway. It's been ten important months. On the one hand, I believe that we are all aware of the fact that the decision of the majority, even if it is limited, of the British people to make the leave prevail and leave the European Union has been a decision of historic importance, at least as far as the last few decades are concerned. It was a decision which, in a sense, turned the spotlight on the difficulties of our Union, the European Union building. On the other hand, I believe that we can record economic data and political results that fuel the hope not only that the European project can continue to develop, but also that we can work to make it more ambitious and more able to meet the challenges that come from the citizens and peoples of the European Union. It would not be the first time, in the history of the European Union for decades, that precisely from a moment of extreme difficulty (the mix between Brexit, the migration crisis and economic difficulties) comes a propensity, a push, to move forward, to take steps in a positive direction. I must say with some pride - for the country and not only for the government - that even the appointment we had more or less a month ago in Rome to celebrate the sixty years of the Constitutional Treaties of the Union has expressed the storm of this potential: it has shown how, after all, some great international events, plus Brexit, plus the difficulties within several Member States with their own public opinions, were perceived by the leadership of the Union as a challenge to be taken, an opportunity to try to move forward. I think it was - and I say this with the pride of the country that hosted it - an important occasion, for at least two reasons: the first is because a signed document has been signed by 27 countries. Some might say that it was the minimum trade union, but those who know very well the events of the European Union know that it was not so; and those who remember ten years ago the celebrations for the 50th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome know that on that occasion it was not possible to put the signature of all the Member States under a joint declaration and the document was signed by the representatives of the Community institutions. It was therefore important to have the subscription of all the member countries, from Greece to Poland. Secondly, I believe that the merit of this document, which is a programmatic declaration, which looks at the next ten years of the European Union and which contains many of the consolidated and predictable languages, but which also contains the openness (or at least the opening-up) of a speech on the different levels of integration, as a positive potential for the future of the European Union, has been important, at least in one respect. I believe that this potential must be exploited, not because it is a question of denying what has always been the foundational slogan of the European Union's path, namely that we must move towards an increasingly integrated Union (the ever closer Union, as an objective of the European Union), but because we cannot imagine that this objective of general integration of the Union must somehow be forced to proceed at the pace of the countries most reluctant to integrate it. Without depriving anyone of the right to be a full member of the European Union, it is right that, in some areas, on certain issues, countries which feel that they can achieve a higher level of integration as possible. Moreover, we are giving political recognition to a case that has been the reality of the Union for a long, long time: not all are part of Schengen, not all are part of the euro, so the principle already has very strong roots and foundations in the reality of the European Union. In my opinion, there has been a move to bet on the future of the Union at the very moment of its greatest difficulty. Those who feared and hoped - because there were both these positions: both those who feared and those who hoped - that Brexit would be the fuse for an implosion of the European Union were wrong: things did not go that way. I am not saying that in order to minimize the historical scope of that vote and the difficulties of the Union, but there is no doubt that after that historic decision we have recorded from Austria to Holland - and I hope France, in the next ten days - the results that clearly point out that, despite the difficulties, there is a majority of European citizens who continue to regard the EU project as a vital and strategic project. Or, if we want to say it another way, these figures have shown us that those who legitimately believe that the answer to these difficulties is to abandon the Union's project, to abandon the European Union tout court, represent legitimate but still minority positions. This is an asset on which to invest, of course, it is not life insurance, but it is something that tells us that the citizens of Europe, who are not at all unaware of the limits, mistakes and difficulties of the Union, believe, in their majority, that on that road it is useful and fair to continue to invest and therefore that the majority of Europeans are still in favour of open society, that the majority of Europeans are still convinced that the value of patriotism, which unites us, should not be confused with a nationalism hostile to their neighbours. It tells us that there is still a majority of European citizens who are convinced that the values of free trade, cultural dialogue, interreligious dialogue are values on which not only our civilization is founded for historical reasons, but they are current values, on which it is possible, right, right and useful to continue to invest and work. This is the idea of Europe to which the Government is attached, in which Italy has participated as a protagonist in recent decades and on which, with all the changes we must fight for, it is a matter of investing, in my opinion, also in the future. On Saturday we will approve the Union's negotiating guidelines with London, we will entrust them to a delegation which will be led by a former French Minister, Michel Barnier, and I believe that it will be a negotiation that will take place more concretely and more substantially after the fast elections that Prime Minister Theresa May, as you know, has called for next 8 June. The negotiations will be long and complex: those who know the European Union machine know that there are countless dossiers on which we will be confronted, and it will certainly not be an easy comparison, but when we take this path the principles must be clear. The first principle with which the Italian Government is preparing for this negotiation must be that our friendship, our alliance, our common interests from a geopolitical, cultural and historical point of view with the United Kingdom are out of the question. I say this in another way: we cannot think of the negotiations with London as, in some way, a form of vengeance, of punishment, because by punishing the British we teach those who were tempted to imitate them in the coming years. I think it would be a wrong and also unproductive attitude: we must confirm friendships and alliances that have historical roots and strategic interests. We must know that it is not with the harshness of the conditions that we will impose on the United Kingdom that any anti-European push in our countries will be discouraged. That is a game that we must play with our beliefs about the future of Europe, with our positive proposals, with the free confrontation of ideas, not imagining that a reductive attitude in this negotiation is the key to avoiding further problems for Europe. I would therefore like to say a few words about the second principle. I believe that we must stick to what is in the Treaties, namely that we will have a two-stage negotiation: a first phase characterised by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and a second phase characterised by the establishment of the new framework of rules for relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. However, the timing of the first stage is certain and laid down in the Treaties; Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union provides for a maximum period of two years for withdrawal. The timing of the second operation, i.e. the definition of the new framework for relations, is not defined by the Treaties. I hope they are quick and I know that Michel Barnier, the EU's chief negotiator, wants them very quickly. However, we also know the complexity of the operation. This makes it possible, within the framework of the distinction between these two different phases, to allow transitional agreements, limited in time, to address specific issues without creating economic difficulties for the citizens of our countries or the United Kingdom. Therefore, keeping the two phases separate does not of course mean that we do not immediately start discussions on future relations (which have been going on for nine months), which means that the negotiations have two separate stages and that we can have limited agreements and time limits to deal with important problems. It will be the European Council that will decide, at some point in the coming months, that the first phase has run out and that the phase of defining the new framework for relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union will begin. One thing is certain as regards the definition of these new relationships, that is, what the final outcome will be. I hope that it will be a fair, fair outlet, that defends our interests and values, but without any punitive intent towards the United Kingdom, and I know that it will be an outlet that will not allow a sort of à la carte use of the European single market. We can imagine everything in this negotiation, except that the single market, which is an extraordinary achievement, can be chosen for some aspects of it (maybe the interests of businesses or finance) and rejected in other respects (free movement of people, for example). This could not be achieved and my impression is that, over the course of these months, the British Government has gradually become convinced, even in the first place, that a sort of single à la carte market is not in the realistic perspective of this negotiation. Another fundamental principle, I believe, must be the principle of unity - always tiresome - among the 27 Member States, emphasizing the fact that the interest in this unity is not only a negotiation interest of the 27, but also an interest of the United Kingdom. I have often repeated this to the British Prime Minister. In fact, there might be a temptation to think of making separate privileged agreements with this and that. It is a legitimate temptation, but then, at the end of the fair, an agreement must be reached with the European Union, which must be shared by 27 European countries. We have a number of precedents, even in recent history, of how clear this concept is. If you bet on the division -- and I'm convinced the London Government won't bet on the division -- you'd end up with no deal. In order to reach an agreement, the unit is of interest to the 27, but it is also of interest to the London Government. As far as the most specific Italian interests are concerned, we have a significant volume of trade and we are among the most important exporting countries to the United Kingdom, just as we are among the most important exporting countries to most of the countries of the European Union. We are not taking any particular risks in the course of this negotiation, but of course we must participate in all the dossiers. We must pay great attention - and we must do so from the start of this negotiation phase - to the condition of our fellow citizens and, in general, of the citizens of the European Union who reside in Great Britain. We are talking about 3.100,000 European citizens living in the UK (about 15% of them are Italians) and we are talking about about about 900,000 British citizens living in Italy, Spain (where there is a particular concentration) and other EU countries. Now, our fellow citizens in the United Kingdom must see their rights recognized and protected, even from the administrative point of view. The protections must be certain, immediately applicable and non-discriminatory; moreover, they must obviously be based on a principle of reciprocity between European citizens in the United Kingdom and British citizens in the rest of the EU countries. This must and may be one of the first dossiers on which to aim to reach agreement. Finally, in addition to the management of a complex negotiation, we must not ignore the fact that the exit of the United Kingdom - certainly a negative fact and even a serious one for the European Union and its history - also opens up positive potential. The United Kingdom is home to several European institutions and agencies and in particular to one of them, the European Medicines Agency, there is some Italian interest and there is a very important candidacy of the city of Milan. The Government has decided not only to support - of course - this candidacy, but also to ask Professor Moavero, former Minister of European Affairs, to be a bit of a point of reference for the Government. We made this decision in agreement with Mayor Sala and President Maroni. It will not be an easy competition, because there are about twenty great cities candidates for this very important institution, but we all know what the qualities, the ability to attract and in this case also the unitarian determination of the city of Milan. So this is an important game, which I think we can play with. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, in parallel with these unprecedented negotiations on Brexit, we will also have an open and lively debate on the future of the Union. It will be a discussion, among other things, dotted with very important electoral appointments in the main countries of the Union itself. I believe it is my duty to take this opportunity to reiterate the way in which the Italian Government intends to refer to this debate. I also say this because it is quite obvious that our country, which has always been among the leading countries of the Union, with the separation of the United Kingdom will become even more relevant in the context of the European debate. Each European country, of course, even the smallest in terms of population and size, has the right to weigh and count as much as it weighs and represents. There is no doubt, however, that after Brexit Italy will increase its weight and its responsibilities. So, this comparison will be very important to us. And for the government it will be of extraordinary importance - by giving obvious differences and also the contrasts within Parliament - to be able to count on this confrontation, on the dialectic and on the support, whenever possible, of Parliament. What is the horizon of this comparison? I would define it on three issues. The first is the question of the Union's economic policies. We know that macroeconomic data in the European Union are generally encouraging at the moment. We have a certain increase in the growth rate, a certain fall in unemployment rates and a slight rise in inflation rates. All this happens in a differentiated way between the country and the country (we know it well), but it happens in a general way in the Union. However, experience tells us that the improvement of macroeconomic data, especially when, as in the case of Italy, it is a slight improvement, is not in itself a guarantee that the consequences of the crisis on the social and economic level can be considered - I do not say behind our backs - as simply mitigated. We have a path ahead of us. It is essential that the European Union has policies to support economic recovery and that the European Central Bank continues its policies to stimulate the European economy. It is also crucial that the debate that has opened up on the criteria for structural adjustment of our budgets should go in the right direction. It is not only in the interests of our country, I want this to be very clear; having a dynamic in the structural adjustments of our budgets different from what is now established in the rules set a few years ago is in the interest of a very large number of European countries. And the task of our Government is to work so that this common interest of a very large number of European countries can express itself and achieve the result of changing the numbers of these structural adjustment dynamics as well. It is not only an Italian requirement, but it is very important, also for our public accounts. Alongside the challenge of economic policies, there is the challenge of migration policies, which we have talked about many times, even in this House. I do not want to go too far, except to repeat the fact that we do not accept the logic that I have often defined as a Europe with two different rigidities: very rigid rigidity when it comes to certain issues relating to common fiscal policies and very flexible rigidity when it comes to policies relating to common reception choices with regard to migrants and refugees. A Europe of two different rigidities is not a Europe that manages to win the consent of the citizens and public opinion, so we will work because the Italian traction on the migration issues of these two years, which has continued in recent weeks with the agreement with the Libyan authorities and Niger (both of which the European Union as a whole, albeit slowly, is moving with resources and whatever else), produces more significant and more substantial results. We need common migration policies. There is no Union that overcomes its difficulties if it does not accept the idea of sharing the burden of the pressure of migration policies, which cannot be allocated only to certain countries - Greece, Italy, Germany and Sweden - but must be shared by the whole of the Union, since this has been decided, moreover. It is not our petition of principle: it is a decision that must be applied. Finally, I believe that in this debate we will have to develop that window that the Rome Declaration of a month ago put on paper on the possibility of maintaining different levels of integration in the European Union's path, trying to give it practical implementation at least in some areas. I think that one of the most promising dossiers, and I am increasingly convinced of this, is that of common defence. You will recall the European Defence Community that, in the mid-fifties, it was a first failed attempt to bring together the European countries: well, I think that precisely on a subject where the first attempts to embark on a European path failed, perhaps, today, we can make progress. The reasons, I believe, are in the eyes of all of you and come from the international context in which we move, as well as from the need to optimise economic resources in the field of defence and from the need to be geopolitically relevant as the European Union. So somehow, we have to do it. Somehow it is useful to save public resources, in some way it is useful to have a sign of what Europe represents in the international context of the Mediterranean region. Many reasons for including this chapter on differentiated levels of integration in the future of the Union for the coming weeks and months - crucial for the future of Europe - in the debate on the future of the Union for the coming weeks and months. Therefore, we are not just going to compare this with the perspective of those who defend their national interests (we would miss them), but also with the perspective of those who would like to help design the future of the Union in general. Also because I am absolutely convinced that helping to design the future of Europe is the best way to protect and defend our national interests. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, AP-CpE, Art.1-MDP and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u27	We thank the President-in-Office for his speech. I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u28	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in thanking you for your communications, I would like to take up three points that you have touched on. The first is that concerning satisfaction - certainly measured but nevertheless satisfaction, which I share and I am pleased with you who chaired this occasion - for the celebrations of the anniversary of the Treaty. The celebratory aspect has been contained, while the aspect of reflection on the part of everyone, at the level of governments, parliaments and citizens, seems to me to have been intense. So what I feared might become an elusive recurrence of problems seems to me to have helped to focus them better, and I am delighted about that. I would also like to express my appreciation for President Grasso and President Boldrini for having organized on 17 March last the parliamentary aspect of the celebration of the anniversary, which seemed to all guests, in particular foreign guests, of the highest level and quality. The second point concerns Brexit. I share the view of great negativity about what has happened, for the United Kingdom but also for the European Union. As you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, so far there has been no dreaded infection of other countries in terms of decommitment. It could almost be said that protective antibodies to European anti-integration have started from the United Kingdom too easily. We have seen this on several occasions, from the Spanish elections on 27 June and at least to the first round of the French elections. A small sign of alarm, however, I would like to point out: in Europe, but more generally in the world, there has been a narrative - let's call it this, even if "narrative" is a word against which I maintain a deep distrust - according to which after Brexit in all countries - except in Italy - the anti-European positions have, if anything, regressed. In order to justify Italy's exception, there are two elements: the outcome of the referendum on 4 December and certain polls. When I happen to dialogue abroad context with absolute conviction that the outcome of December 4, any merit opinion may have, can be read as a prevalence of anti-European positions. While we must pay close attention to the fact that we are - I think - the only country in the European Union that, after Brexit, has recorded, at the level of opinion polls, a weakening of the desire to belong to the European Union, rather than its recovery, as has happened in all other countries. Perhaps it would be worth examining in depth the causes of this. The third and final point is the negotiations with the United Kingdom. I share everything you have said, President Gentiloni Silveri. I would just like, in addition, to invite the Government, but also Parliament, to a strategic reflection on how the game of forces within the European Commission will change, but above all within the Council, because one day the United Kingdom will no longer be present. I believe that the changes will be relevant and the role and responsibility of Italy - as you said - will increase, not only because the United Kingdom will disappear from those tables, but also because some other great country, which could potentially become a protagonist, is now recalcitrant: I am referring to Poland. Well, my perception, on which I believe a systematic reflection should be made, is that, with the failure of the United Kingdom at the table in which we draw the European policy for the social market economy, which we all want in Europe, the positive contribution that this nation made, but also a negative contribution, is lost. The positive contribution that the United Kingdom has made for many years (except in the last few years) has been to push for the market, openness and competition. With less of this contribution and with the hope that the very recent developments - for example in the field of competition law - are not indicative of turning backwards, I believe that it belongs to Italy to keep this momentum alive, because we have to earn money and because without us I see a risk of neocorporative retreat agreed between France and Germany. Moreover, the failure of the negative contribution concerns precisely the social aspect. The United Kingdom is the country that has most stubbornly opposed greater fiscal coordination in Europe and has been beaten to the face by this attitude, because the single market they so loved in the absence of accompanying social policies, which are not financially possible without some fiscal coordination, is no longer accepted by the citizens. Finally, another negative contribution that will fail is on the budget of the European Union. You know that the Commission's discussions on the new seven-year financial framework are under way; your Government has presented a working document which I found very positive and encouraging; I believe that Italy's role as a driving force is also important in that case. Mr President, in conclusion, since I have mentioned that in my opinion the government, but also Parliament, should take this reflection on a systematic basis, I wondered how this could happen. I think that these regular exchanges, which I have the honour to have introduced in January 2012, between the President of the Council and this House are very fruitful for us and I hope they will be useful for the President of the Council; then there is the work in the European Union's Foreign and Political Affairs Commission, but perhaps some opportunity for discussion and debate without the immediate burden of taking decisions in this House on these vast European issues, which are so important for our economic and social policies, could be a reflection for the President. [[Applause from the PD groups]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE)). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his speech, which, as always, is very reflective and realistic in relation to the situation we are in after Brexit. While President Gentiloni Silveri was speaking, I was reminded of a book by Dahrendorf that came out in 2009 entitled "Quadrare il Circolo" (Quadrare il Circolo) and was referring precisely to Europe. In other words, it was said to square the circle between three great edges of a triangle: democracy, the market and social cohesion (welfare policies). I would like us to continue to maintain a trajectory which then inspired Delors' White Paper and which was designed to make the circle of a great community, the largest in the world, made up of 500 million people, which are then 500 million citizens, workers, consumers, protagonists who live - and I would like to say this to all anti-Europeans - the best world condition on the three parameters mentioned in democracy, the market and social cohesion. These are three areas that would be useful not to disperse in a debate often lacking every historical root, every connotation of reality; it would be useful not to disperse it, because this is a common heritage that has been built with great difficulty and which has allowed us, as you reminded us last time, always talking about Europe, to have sixty years of peace, which are a benefit not measurable in the quantity of value, but extraordinary for the value of life, progress and democracy contained in it. As you spoke, I came up with my own personal experience, which I will bring back shortly. Just in the period of that book of 2009 - I remember that in Europe there was Commissioner Monti - I presided over the European Association of Crafts and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (UEAPME), a large organisation of 20 million companies that had difficulty in forming and whose merger was difficult. We are talking about small and medium-sized craft enterprises, not large industries, and the most difficult and difficult point to make the circle of interests square was set precisely by British business associations. The latter had a doubt: in European associationism they did not want to lose some of the requirements, which are those that Professor Monti recalled, namely their dynamic ability to be on open and competitive markets. In fact, associationism establishes rules that can somehow harness those who have to run and compete. Unfortunately, that difficulty existed, so much so that the United Kingdom did not accede to the single European currency and maintained its own identity and dimension within Europe, but also between Europe and the United States. Today we must support negotiations with the United Kingdom, which I would not like to call difficult, but which is certainly complex and problematic, on its exit from the European Union. I agree with what the President-in-Office of the Council has said about whether negotiations should be based on the principle of sincere cooperation. This means that, although the choice made is not shared by the rest of Europe, by governments, by the European Commission and by those who are negotiating for it, we must not fall into the risk of revancism towards the United Kingdom and, at the same time, we must not suffer all the negative consequences that the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union can cause. When the implementation of Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty comes to light and the implementation levels set out therein become reality, we will have to use a double attitude: the principle of sincere cooperation and firmness that the interests of both sides must be respected. Like you, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, I too think that Italy will be able to play an important role, because increasing will be its role within the context of the leading countries of the European Union. Italy will be able to play an important role because we have many common interests, of that Italian community that lives in the United Kingdom, composed of about 600,000 people and in the trade exchange Italy has an advantage of 12-13 billion euros, vis-à-vis the United Kingdom. We have therefore not entered into a symbolic war or philosophical war: we must deal pragmatically with certain issues which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, referred to, such as the relocation of the authorities, to which I would add a very concrete one, which we place as a very serious and severe problem in our motion for a resolution. I am referring to the Milan Stock Exchange, which is owned by the London Stock Exchange, which is the largest financial market in the world, which, when Brexit is completed, will become a huge offshore market. It is likely that this will lead Europe to sometimes a little nervous reactions, but I would like to remind you that this nervousness could be followed by some opportunity, precisely because of the position within Europe - inside - of the market and the Milan Stock Exchange. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the role that we can play, I would like to call for the circle of the great principles and also of the great interests that can accompany each other, putting at the head of this reasoning the fact that European security and European foreign policy must still see an involvement of the United Kingdom, because we are involved in the same security process as the world. To make the circle square is a challenge that goes beyond negative narratives, that people of reason must always be aware and I have no doubt that our Government is having it. The circle must be square in order to maintain our prerogatives of democracy, freedom and the market and, at the same time, to grow a Europe capable of reforming itself, less regulating and more time for development, which sets new objectives and also takes note of failures. I shall conclude by saying that the Juncker plan for public infrastructure interventions has not worked as well as possible. It didn't work. What has worked in Europe, for the recovery that President Gentiloni Silveri mentioned, was the development of the private market, which has grown in a differentiated way in the different countries. There has been little European contribution to this type of growth. We must therefore call for a greater European contribution to these processes, by a Europe that is not only more flexible but also more proactive in promoting development. In order to maintain democracy, the market and freedom, the only condition is to grow, developing the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Berger, Fucksia, Naccarato and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u30	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Tecnico Agrario Statale (State Agricultural Technical Institute), Giuseppe Garibaldi, Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u32	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you recalled the signature that the 27 Heads of State or Government signed a few weeks ago on the Rome Declaration, stating that it was the minimum union. On the other hand, I believe that the minimum level of union would have been to have the citizens and Parliament read that document first, and that was not the case. This tells you a lot about what your attitude is. In your speech you also spoke of the fact that many claimed that Brexit would be a disaster for Europe. I would like to disappoint you, but those who announced a catastrophe that would strike Europe with the exit of the United Kingdom were you, the same ones who announced the institutional catastrophe that would strike Italy as a result of the failure to approve the constitutional reforms, the ones you had proposed to us, lying to the Italians declaring them fundamental, while they were useless and harmful; the same ones who declared to the Italians that to make a law, in this Parliament, it took two years and that now they propose to approve an electoral law in a month, a month and a half. These statements of yours, which were first denied, are what I call "weapons of mass discussion," which allow people to be distracted from real problems. It is precisely because you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have been Minister for Foreign Affairs that I would like to point out certain aspects to you. The first comes from the recent case of our compatriot Gabriele Del Grande, who brought to light an embarrassing fact: we have discovered that our treaties on judicial and police cooperation with Turkey date back to the 1920s or the 1950s. This raises the issue of the updating of treaties with certain countries. You spoke of two stages of the Brexit negotiation and I would like to emphasise what you mentioned, namely the fact that these two phases will have to be absolutely contemporary. In relation to this, I would like to point out two fundamental points in my view: the first is that, in the protection of these reports, following Brexit, we must not forget some fundamental subjects for our country, such as our students and our researchers who are currently in the United Kingdom, who will probably see some funding from the European Community disappear and increase their tuition at British universities. In addition to this, I would like to point out the importance of bringing a serious topic to the table on Saturday morning. You spoke of transitional agreements; these agreements should focus on a fundamental point, on which I also draw the attention of the Undersecretary Ferri, who is very sensitive to it. The Attorney General of the Republic of Gratteri pointed out, a few weeks ago, a very important aspect of Brexit, which so far no one has dealt with in this House: the failure of agreements, through the European Union, with the United Kingdom, could facilitate a number of activities of organised crime, especially in Italy, as a result of the loss of judicial protection and police cooperation, which at the moment are of great help to our prosecutors and our law enforcement forces. This is a fundamental aspect, which I sincerely urge the House to take into account. Indeed, Theresa May herself has done a sort of moral suasion towards the European Union, evokeing almost like a scare that a softening and a lightening of these treaties and judicial and police cooperation could cause serious damage to the investigative activities of our prosecutors. For this reason, in conclusion, I would like to point out to you our commitments in these two specific areas: surely to protect our students and researchers abroad; above all - and here I would like to remind you of your words, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - that during the negotiations for Brexit there will be a legislative vacuum in the area of international judicial and police cooperation with the United Kingdom, defining, in conjunction with the procura active in international investigations, all those safeguards aimed at ensuring the continuation and improvement of the investigation phases for cross-border crimes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u33	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u34	Mr President, the European Council on 29 April will adopt the guidelines for the Brexit negotiations. The President of the European Council, Tusk, recently said that the community of 27 countries will remain determined and united on future negotiations with a clear common objective: to minimise costs for citizens, businesses and Member States of the European Union. It will therefore be necessary, Mr President, to lay down certain rules with regard to the economic commitments which bind and bind the United Kingdom and the Union in the short term and which have been entered into previously. Unconfirmed sources speak of 60 billion euros. Well, I ask you, who will pay? How much? It must be borne in mind that, in addition to these 60 billion, there are about fifty trade agreements that the United Kingdom will have to renegotiate in a different position, as a non-EU state. At this point, I do not hope that Brexit will be an opportunity for the European Union to collect some easy money, to be vindictive or to prevent others from going out, but I hope that it is not even an opportunity for the United Kingdom to be able to fail to bear the direct costs of its decision. In other words, I hope that Brexit will be an opportunity to rationalise spending, lightening the burden that our citizens bear, allocating resources where they are needed and guaranteeing worthwhile investments. The financial agreement must include not only commitments made on the European Union's multiannual budget, but also investment talks, given that London is still the fourth destination in the world for foreign investment. And I come to another point. In the aftermath of the English vote, Prime Minister May confirmed that she wanted to reduce corporate taxes from 20% to 17% by 2020; some rumors even speak of a 15% target: this is a real tax paradise beyond the Channel. This time, however, we do not find the four rocks of Cyprus, but a reality where people will go directly to live and not only to deposit the legal seat of the companies. This is therefore an opportunity to review and offset what we ourselves, compared to this tax paradise, and still today a tax hell. The slogan of Eurosceptics, which is so fashionable, is that Europe is asking for sacrifices; well, I hope this is an opportunity to reflect and make sure that we can ask Europe, in turn, for less bureaucracy, less taxes and better services when it comes to bargaining. We are also thinking of our 170,000 British nationals, because it is also important for them that the rules are secure and that the negotiations are fast: separating the two moments, the closure of the report and the agreements for the future, does not seem very useful to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u35	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today, in Europe, different scenarios can be opened and new ideas and new ideas cannot be excluded. France has shown, with Macron's success, that public opinion, although burdened with insecurities and fears founded, offers its consent to those who have clear and clear ideas, to those who do not take refuge in demagogy. And Macron, who has chosen Europe, has achieved great success and I hope that the ballot will be largely supported by a democratic front. The elections convened in the United Kingdom by Prime Minister May could also offer surprises. Let us not forget that the English referendum was won for a short time by those who wanted to get out of Europe and that from then on British public opinion may have gained a different idea of the United Kingdom's interest in Europe. I would therefore not rule out the possibility of an English Macron, whether liberal or Labour, being able to indicate a new project for the United Kingdom and its relationship with Europe. That is also why I believe that the decisions that Europe will have to take on Brexit must be firm and clear, but without closing the European doors to the United Kingdom definitively. By now we have all understood that referendums are important when it comes to fundamental values of civil life, but they are risky and even counterproductive when it comes to deciding complex issues, when they are used by a policy that abdicates its responsibilities. So the whole of Europe is on the move. And if Macron becomes, as I hope, the new President of France and Chancellor Merkel will be confirmed at the head of Germany, Europe will be able to resume its path, correct it and improve it. Italy, then, must be ready to be part of the founding core of a partially renewed and renewed Europe. Of course, every day that passes we must see the negative consequences that the rejection of the constitutional referendum has caused. In fact, today the risk of ungovernability for Italy is very high. In fact, today, President Gentiloni Silveri, his Government is an important point of reference to face with authority these difficult challenges and look to the future, albeit with all the unknowns that present themselves. But it is necessary to resume the process of reforms: to put them aside again would be the worst way for Italy to come to the table of a Europe that, after the French and German elections, would be ready to do at last what has not been done to date. [[Applause from Senator Saggese]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u36	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u37	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for clearly explaining the state of the art of the negotiations on the so-called Brexit and for doing so - and above all, thank you - with a great deal of perspective within this vision. The exit of the United Kingdom is certainly a crucial step: it is the first time that such an important member has decided to leave the European Union; a country that, in twentieth-century history, for our generation and for that of our children, has had a great symbolic, historical and cultural significance, even before political and economic. This choice falls at a very delicate moment in international relations. So it was not only alarmism - I address my dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and, in particular, to Senator Lucidi - they were not "weapons of mass discussion": it was a real, real concern, the sign of participation and sharing with the problems of citizens, not rhetoric and demagogic, as you often do. It was a real problem to take seriously. We realize - and we are very pleased - that perhaps, as President Monti said, Brexit was an antibody. We are very happy with the way things are going, the result in Holland and the first result of the French presidential election, where we hope Macron will be confirmed, because he did not win by softening or minimizing, but by exalting a convinced Europeanist membership. He is a completely new candidate, who has made the flag of the European Union a flag of his own, a flag of France and therefore of Europe as France. In short, Europe is not a bond to bear, but as a real opportunity and not just an economic one. As our President-in-Office of the Council said, Europe is not only an economic fact, but it is linked to fundamental issues, such as solidarity on immigration and common defence. Immigration recalls the concepts of confrontation, interreligious dialogue and openness. On the other hand, the United Kingdom, as we know, has always participated with reservations in the European project, so perhaps this is a figure of clarity; not to do like the fox with grapes, but Brexit certainly raises the question of clarity and must not be dealt with with with revenge, blackmail, with a demonstration lesson - that is also very fair - but with responsibility and confidence in the European project, with loyalty and without blackmail. As far as we are concerned, it is a matter of relocating and reviewing - hopefully - our new structure in a new Franco-German axis, not by police officers but by protagonists. This situation is also an opportunity to reflect, therefore, on the new identity - said the President-in-Office of the Council in his introductory speech - in order to fully rediscover the profoundly political perspective of the integration process and therefore its values, which must not be seen in a rhetorical and empty way. I remember the experience we have experienced - and I am sorry to reply again to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who consider it rhetorical and external to the sensitivity of the citizens - and what we have achieved in the ambitious context of the anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, with the signing of the Declaration of Rome. I would like to recall the importance of that result: the citizens were there, indeed. We must be proud of what happened on March 25, on a wonderful day, lived in perfect tranquility in our Capital or in Milan, where a million people came around Pope Francis, demonstrating us, in a moment of fear and concern throughout Europe for attacks and security, an incredible strength and serenity, also thanks to our police forces. It is therefore with pride that we have hosted those events. I am addressing those who are so keen on participation, because the President-in-Office of the Council is quite right about this: in my opinion, that day, so successful, not only on the formal and rhetorical level, but also on the results achieved with the consent of all the Member States of the European Union, is the example, the metonymy, the metaphor, of how to defend our interests does not mean to close down, but can represent the flywheel, the strength, to assert a role as protagonists and vanguard, as we have had in the history of the European Union, in the foundation of this great adventure of freedom and peace. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, I would ask that we be able to give the offices an addition to my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u38	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u40	President Gentiloni Silveri, you want a non-punitive attitude towards the United Kingdom: when someone should punish democracy - of which Brexit was a great example - it means that in Europe there is someone who prefers dictatorship to democracy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] You will therefore go to Europe to talk about Brexit, but remember that we are talking about that country, a few kilometres from continental Europe, beyond the Channel, which is the home of democracy. Remember - to make a little history of sport too - that is also the home of football and rugby, two team sports in which compliance with the rules is fundamental. The United Kingdom, President, is that place where an English Government and a Queen have allowed the Scottish people, after hundreds of years, to self-determine themselves with a referendum: the power has been given to the people, who have decided to remain in the United Kingdom. Nobody tore their clothes when the people decided, the outcome of that referendum was accepted. The United Kingdom, Mr President, is the place where, in agreement with France, a wall was built at the beginning of the Channel Tunnel in Calais to prevent an invasion: a wall within Europe to protect its borders. The United Kingdom is the place where citizens were asked: "Leave or remain?" by referendum, giving power to the people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Democracy: this thing is unknown to your bureaucrat friends in Europe, an increasingly stepmotherly Europe. Britain is that place where Prime Minister Theresa May soon announced the elections without whether or not, with a certain date. That too, Mr President, is democracy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In the next few days, you will be representing our country, the cradle of law, where alas the certainty of the law and above all of the penalties is a mirage; a country that is identified by delinquents all over the world as the country of Bengodi. Our country - perhaps to tell the British, President - is the one where an abusive government had proposed a constitutional referendum to take away power from citizens, removing the right to vote on the Senate, increasing the number of signatures necessary to request a referendum and above all that it should have taken away powers from the Regions, then the autonomous ones. Our country, President, is where two Regions (Lombardy and Veneto) ask for an advisory referendum for autonomy, which is different from secession, about which the Democratic Party goes around to talk, and the Government does everything to bring it down: where democracy is asked, you do not want to give it to us. Our country is where, thanks to the agreements between NGOs, boatmen, cooperatives and the Italian State, everyone earns from a human trafficking that has the sole purpose of replacing a people: from Italians to European Africans. Our country is the one where entry into Europe was imposed by Mr Prodi, deceiving everyone with his beautiful face (we remember it in the news of then) and it is the same country, President, where the request of the North League to include the possibility of referendum on international treaties in the Constitution has been rejected by you. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Shut up! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Shut up and go home! Our country is where, although the Italians told you on December 4 that you must leave, you are still there to warm up the chair, with a government that you said, deceiving and mocking the Italians, had to serve to approve the electoral law. But the electoral law makes it Parliament, not the government, and you're there to warm up the chair. You must leave now! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So, President, go and study democracy techniques and bring us your friends from the government and your colleagues, with whom you are going on a trip to Europe these days. And don't confuse democracy with populism; don't tell us that Europe's evil is the populist, legist, penitentiary evildoers and everything it has said so far, that Europe's evil is Brexit. The evil of Europe is those like you, who are massacred European citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The evil of Europe is the pro-Europeans who have been promising changes for years, and then give a shit and don't change anything. It reminds me of the story of a great Sicilian who wrote: "It is necessary to change everything in order not to change anything". You have continued to refer to the majority of European citizens: what do you know about the majority of European citizens? What do you know about what European citizens really want? Go to Europe, as I have already said, and learn, maybe bring us also Alfano so at least learn some English. Given what he said today, given what you're saying and what his friends are saying, go to Europe and use a good saying, which our grandparents used: A nice silencer was never written. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u41	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u42	Mr President, in the communications from the President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps due to the excess of sobriety, we have not heard any reference to his meeting with the President of the United States of America last week. In my opinion - as far as it could be deduced - that meeting was objectively a success and I would say a European success, especially when compared to the climate of artefact tension of two months ago, when President Trump had met Chancellor Merkel. I note this without any anti-German nationalism, but precisely in the sense of that patriotism that can be European at least will be enthralled by the demands of nationalism. In this respect, the analysis that the President-in-Office of the Council is about to make in the coming days, at the extraordinary summit on the Brexit negotiations, which will be intelligently led by Michel Barnier, seems to me to be acceptable. That is to say, we must ensure that the single market is not on the map, I take that and I reject that. We have and are living in a historic season in which we cannot say: the single market for financial products is alive, the single market for human beings is down. The President-in-Office of the Council has also said that the maximum unity between the 27 countries is desirable, but here my remarks are not in unison with the historical introductory part that was premised this morning. It is not true that the UK decision is such a major decision for the European project. The United Kingdom is a very important country, which many of us who come from liberalism will always have in our hearts, but the United Kingdom is not there and is not at the origin of the European project. This project, which allows the peace treaty to be closed (remember the intervention of Einaudi to the Constituent), was born on the basis of the relationship no longer of opposition between France and Germany. The European project was born from three frontier men: the Trentino De Gasperi, the Alsatian Schumann and the former Borgomaster of Colonia Adenauer. Why - and I ask the current President of the Council, who was, until some time ago, Minister for Foreign Affairs in Italy - did Italian diplomacy want to immemorialize everything with that banner of Ventotene, spinellian, used with terms of blackmailers, which was seen a month later in Bratislava how counterproductive Europe was? With all due respect and all affection, Ventotene's project has a whole other root. Spinelli is a former communist, who would like to arrive at democracy without losing the aspect of internationalism and cosmopolitanism that the communist season gave him; this is his controversy of frontal opposition against the national states. We can raise the sovereignist flag, or we could, against the Europe of Spinelli, but against the dream of De Gasperi, Adenauer and Schumann to no longer wage war between France and Germany we can not even the willing candidate Le Pen in the French elections. And so, from this point of view, the President-in-Office of the Council says that it was important a month ago to safeguard unity between the twenty-seven and to arrive at a document that could be signed by all twenty-seven. I would not like to contradict an authoritative colleague like Mr Monti, but in that document everything is eluded and almost nothing is said, all the more so since that day, in London, it was manifested in the square in defence of an ancient value that is always modern: Parliament, vilely attacked, the day before, by an attack. So why does Europeanism today speak only the language of presidentialism or semi-presidency? We read every day that there is a former President of the Italian Council (I am referring to Letta) who intends to rediscover a flag of Cossiga: we bind the election of the European Parliament to the direct election of the President of the Commission. I am not against it, but I cannot fail to note how we have gone back since 1979, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when we all promised our voters that next time we would vote with the same electoral law, both in Hamburg and Caltanissetta. And, if you really love Spinelli himself, the latter as a Member of the European Parliament believed in the possibility of electoral legislation that would make that Parliament a real Parliament. And then, abdicating to a parliamentaryism taken seriously to pursue image successes is something that to some extent can be useful to Macron to win the election, because, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my feeling is that Macron is precisely the rediscovery of nationalism, gabellated as European patriotism, beyond the ridicule of seeing in 2017 a young man, who is not Clemenceau during the First World War, marrying with such catechistic intransigency nationalist a flag of Europeanism for image use. Europe is made up of concrete things. And you, as Minister for Foreign Affairs and as President of the Council, are living through a lot of things. But do you really believe that enlargement was useful and wise for the European project? Have you not noticed that in Europe - and not only on the issues of migrants - there are about ten countries whose anti-putinism, infinitely higher than the share that you and I share, has paralysed the European political machine? So, your idea that you can be faithful to integration in what way can you achieve it? Slowing down speed on some points and speeding up on others, such as common defense? That sounds eager to me. As a whistleblower it seemed to me the document of the 27. These are things that we tell you from the opposition not because there is an institutional condition of the opposition in international politics. This is ridiculous. But there is the idea that we can create a Europe with different levels of integration, and a positive potential that does not involve Parliamentarianism taken seriously. The European Parliament is not a real Parliament. By making the European Commission a real government, we do not make the European Parliament a real Parliament. Finally, why is the European Parliament decisive? Because we live a season of fierce anti-politics. And then we, with a European electoral law, could re-launch in Europe those popular, liberal and socialist parties that are less discredited than, in the codes of socialism, I supplanted partyocracy. From this point of view, I hope that the phase that opens in Europe will be respectful of those values, first of all of Atlanticism, for which we must greet as a European success the good relationship that has been established between you and the President of the United States of America. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u44	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that Brexit needs a little more thought. You say Britain's exit wasn't a fuse. Maybe she doesn't turn against what she said. Brexit is nothing more than a manifestation, the most resounding and the most evident, of the underlying European crisis. Of course, the most contingent fact, Mr President, is mainly due to the mistakes made by David Cameron, who is certainly neither Gordon Brown nor Tony Blair, who, in order to resolve the crisis of his leadership, has not hesitated to throw his country into an extremely difficult situation and with unsustainable results. The British vote, Mr President, has shown all the anxiety about a reality such as the European one, which in recent years, exactly from the crisis of the Lehman Brothers in 2008, has suffered a growing bureaucratic sclerosis. What is striking in the common feeling of the British are two prevailing circumstances: on the one hand, the growing insuffering of the European Court of Justice; on the other hand, the increasingly negative judgment in the face of a class of public officials increasingly deafer in the face of the legitimate demands of sovereign peoples. Hence the inevitable short circuit, the spark that triggered Brexit. Mr President, you know that the United Kingdom has had for decades a discount on its contribution obligations to the EU budget. You know that we continue to make a full contribution to that European budget, from which other countries, such as those from the East, have important benefits, except then reject any logic of European mutuality when - as in the case of migratory flows - it is their turn to give instead of take. All of this, Mr President, is unacceptable. That is why it was also wrong - our Group has already told the House and repeats it here in the Senate - to adhere to the demand for labour coming from Europe at a time when it is still to be discussed the future fate of the rules of fiscal compact. Yesterday you rejected an amendment by Senator Mazzoni that would help you with the future calculation of the output gap, the identification of the structural deficit and, precisely, the interaction between contribution to the European budget and contribution to the management of migratory flows. Mr President, the indifference to the decisions of the European Court of Justice was somewhat predictable. There are two judicial systems that move with completely different logics: in and around London common law with its pragmatism and its ability to adapt quickly to the changes imposed by the overall evolution of society; on the other hand, a system of rigid and codified rules, with legislation always lagging behind on real processes and a chaotic and contradictory legislative burden. In the end, British rejection was more or less inevitable. But on the second front, that of bureaucratic access, it could be done more taking into account that that disease was destined to kill not only Britain, but Europe itself, which lost sight of that polar star that in the past years had guided its path, giving all the member countries a comparative advantage over the pre-existing situation; advantage that, over the years, has progressively narrowed, favouring only some countries. There's the fuse, Mr. President, that you don't see. Germany in the lead, which, immemorial of the tragedies of the twentieth century, continues to operate with insensitivity worthy of better cause and, not picking up the signals that come from different countries, does as the ostrich. To say that there is no fuse means to act like the ostrich hiding his head in case of danger. The recent Dutch elections, which have seen Geert Wilders' statement - fortunately contained - should make people think: those were moments of fear. We hope that the next French President will be Macron, but Le Pen's relative success cannot be left to rest. In other words, Mr President, it is like a tumor that is metastasizing and is still in danger of causing a domino effect, feeding veined impulses of irrationalism, calibrated as they are on the exit from the euro, and the return to the borders of the national states. We have heard that too, namely that we return to the borders at the level of our Alps. That there is a self-harmful impulse is only clear to the most discerning voters. The great mass grasps in filigree only the exhaustion of every driving force, as was once said about the old Soviet Union. They therefore dream of radical solutions without worrying at all - as we heard from the League Leader before - about the fact that one can fall from the frying pan to the fire. But this will be the inevitable final outcome if, in the meantime, Europe has not been able to change its march, saving itself through innovative policies. Italy may have a role to play in awakening a conscience that has been buried too long, but to do so it must come out of the shadow cone in which it has long been driven out. We do not need to beat the punches on the table in alternate currents, nor to play the good policeman - as you do, Mr President-in-Office - and the bad one, as your predecessor does. On the other hand, Mr President, do not be offended, but you are neither Andreotti, nor De Gasperi, nor Craxi. On the contrary, we need a strategy mediated and pursued with continuity, without proclamations or blows of head, but with the determination that arises from the awareness of being right and of leading a battle that undoubtedly aims at defending the national interest, but not losing sight of a broader horizon represented by the common interests of the whole of Europe. That is why we are calling on Germany to refocus its economy. You must ask him, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, although we know that it is impossible, given the situation of full employment in which the country lives, with only 4% of unemployment, unlike ours where it is almost 12%. Increasing domestic demand would have as the only effect in Germany an increase in inflation, and we know that we are faced with a theme particularly sensitive to the culture and historical experience of that country. However, we can ask for compensation on a different ground: for example, to break down the veto which prevents the creation of a banking union - as some of my enlightened colleagues have already said - and the corresponding European guarantees for savers; or to provide for appropriate forms of mutualisation of sovereign debts for the revival of investment. We as a Group are not euros, but we are ANAC, which you know perfectly well to be a funnel, because investments are there, but there is the current budget and resources are not used. This funnel is like a cerebral stenosis of the carotid, so it is useless to pump blood, so it does not reach the brain and, therefore, our economy dies. But investment is the true independent variable of future economic growth across the continent. Finally, Mr President, the associated sacrifice is fully bearable. It fits perfectly in the theoretical figure of leadership: the one in which the advantages and charges are compensated in a positive sum game. Forms can be as elastic as possible. For example, securitisation assumptions can be considered as collateral for new securities issues directly under the aegis of the ECB. It would be the way in which the European financial system is structured, which is now exclusively featured on a single heel represented by the German Bund, an anomaly in the wider international panorama. That's why we invite you to reflect on the suggestions that might get us out of the impasse you're in. The fuse is there and it's dangerous. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u45	Mr President, the tone of the debate and in part of the President-in-Office's communications was - I think - very self-reinsured. I can understand that there is always a certain optimism of the will, but I believe that the data continue to be, even on the future of Europe, not particularly reassuring. And the climate that has established seems to be dictated by the fact that almost everyone has breathed a sigh of relief at the news that Macron has arrived at the ballot, because this can be a denial of the concerns overlooking the vote on Brexit. On the other hand, I think that we should not dismiss that vote so easily from a political point of view, because it was a vote of no confidence in the policies of the European Union. (at 12.19 p.m.) (De PETRIS). It is a vote which - on the one hand - has certainly been welcomed, also in other countries, as a recovery, albeit weak, of the European spirit; on the other, however, it has again broken down on a distrust - in our opinion absolutely rampant - of European citizens towards European policies of rigour and austerity, which in some situations - as happened in Britain - has also become the decisive push for the exit from the European Union, thus marking a point of no return. However, the figure is much more complex and articulated than we are liquidating it today, as if we wanted to close a question that we consider to be crucial. President Gentiloni Silveri said that at this point Brexit can also be an opportunity and a sign of a resumption of hope in the future of Europe and, therefore, an exit from fears and the tunnel. However, in order to return to the future of Europe, we cannot continue to ignore one fact: I am referring to the unpopular nature of austerity and rigour policies. Therefore, in order for Europe to return to a path that speaks to the people, to deal with the social hardship and the critical situations of so many people, we need to change course. It is pointless to continue to be around us, because at the moment the European Union and the euro are still in an economically and socially unsustainable situation. We do not put the subject of the revision of the fiscal compact because we are fixed, but because we believe it is absolutely essential to activate every initiative in order to make sure that we make changes to those policies and to the profound revision of the treaties in this sense. Otherwise, this unsustainable course risks sending us to crash once and for all. You can't keep dancing on the Titanic, pretending you don't know that sooner or later you're going to hit the iceberg. I say this because the data on the improvements presented by President Gentiloni Silveri on the growth and the reduction of unemployment concern only very few countries and certainly not ours. Therefore, from the point of view of social and economic sustainability we are not there. This has a lot to do with the negotiations and the reflections on the vote on Brexit that - I repeat - we must not absolutely dismiss, but treasure it, because that was the alarm bell that highlighted the absolute necessity of a radical change. This is the only possibility, the only hope for a future for Europe itself. As far as the negotiations are concerned, I agree with the assessments made by President Gentiloni that negotiations should not be based on a spirit of revenge. First of all, we must respect the British vote and, therefore, take full advantage of it and take advantage of it in order to take a step forward. The negotiations, therefore, must by no means be based on a revancist spirit. At the same time, in a certainly European spirit, we must make every effort to protect the rights of some 600,000 Italian citizens living in the United Kingdom in very clear and simple matters. Efforts must be made to guarantee and protect the rights acquired by Italian citizens, above all social and social security citizens; the protection of families composed of members of different nationalities; the maintenance of school fees and tuition fees; free access to scholarships, recognition of qualifications and the right to vote. We must, therefore, obtain from the British Government a guarantee that all of this can in some way be largely protected. However, although we are wisely conducting the negotiations, today too we cannot deceive ourselves that the spirit of celebration of the sixty years of the Treaties has solved all the problems that lie before us or a part of them. I therefore repeat that the only hope for a future for Europe is that it will radically change course and, therefore, start a process for the re-debate of the Treaties and, above all, to seriously attenuate or eliminate austerity policies and, above all, the fiscal compact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to President Gentiloni Silveri's report, which - unlike many of my fellow Members have said - we consider solid, balanced and genuinely pro-European, which is what we need at a time like the current one. First of all, we have taken a strong stand to ensure that Italy contributes to Brexit negotiations being conducted in the best possible way. The motion for a resolution tabled by the majority senators contains many aspects which also reflect the concerns that I have heard from my minority colleagues and suggests that the negotiations be conducted very carefully, without criminal attitudes - as has rightly been said - and that a logic of fairness, justice and a united spirit should not be lost at this time. I believe that there are all the conditions for doing well. I believe that the final reference made by President Gentiloni to the need to continue to build with Parliament a careful monitoring of the long and complex phase that is about to open. And this message must not be lost. There is a second and last consideration that I wish to make. In Mr Gentiloni Silveri's report, a fair reference was made to the need to use the current opportunity of difficulty to take a true step forward in European culture and the progress of the Community project. I don't think there's any other way. It is not with continuous retreats, always on the defensive and trying to look only at the minimalist goal, that we can make immediate conquests and restore momentum and breath to the European project. I believe that the reference made by the President-in-Office of the Council to a high cultural confrontation, which takes the very premises of this difficulty, is a useful way to go. I think that the problem of the parties, and not only the Government and Parliament, is to understand how we can ensure that the confrontation is not only an institutional or diplomatic moment, but also an opportunity for a great social, cultural and mass experience involving categories, young people, cities and the whole of society. That seems to me to be something to consider. Finally, Mr President, a new step in European culture requires tangible results that push citizens back to Europe. The issues mentioned - emigration, joint efforts against terrorism, the economy and society - seem to me to be an important agenda. For these reasons, we shall support the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u47	Our work is attended by the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale "Virgilio" in Camposano, in the province of Naples, whom we thank and greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u48	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, No 2, Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 3, Senator Calderoli and other Senators, No 4, Senator Barani and other Senators, No 5, Senator Martelli and other Senators, No 6, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 7, Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled. Since the first signature of Senator Romani Paolo's motion for a resolution No 7 has just been tabled, the representative of the Government will then be able to express his opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u49	Mr President, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1, first signed by Senator Zanda, and against the motion for a resolution No 2, first signed by Senator Centinaio, and the motion for a resolution No 3, first signed by Senator Calderoli. I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 4, first signed by Senator Barani. On motion for a resolution No 5, first signed by Senator Martelli, I am in favour, provided that the following rewordings are accepted. In the third paragraph of the premises contained in the fourth page of the text, after the words "the node on security agreements" I propose to expunge the words "as scaracchio" by Theresa May. In the following paragraph, after the words "The process of exit from the EU of Great Britain" I propose to replace the word "comport" with the words "may result." Then I propose to expunge the penultimate paragraph of the premises in full, then from the words "The whole framed" up to the words "real" or "fictitious." As far as the provisions are concerned, I propose that the fourth paragraph be replaced by the words 'to ensure that the British Government honours' by the words 'to ensure that the British Government honours'. Finally, I propose replacing the sixth commitment as follows: "to ensure that safeguards are ensured to ensure the continuation and improvement of the investigation phases for cross-border offences" and to implement the last three commitments of the part of the provision. Also on motion for a resolution No 6, at the first signature of Senator De Petris, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewordings are accepted. In part of the premises, it is proposed to correct the second paragraph following the words "considered" that: "from the words "it is a vote" until the end, and the next paragraph, from the words "on the one hand," the European Union closes its borders until the end. On page 2 of the text of the motion for a resolution it is proposed to expunge from the words 'take the opportunity' to the words 'from the far east'. It is also proposed that the second commitment be given the words "to take initiatives" for the purposes of the second commitment. With regard to the fifth commitment, it is proposed to put the words "to work" in advance of the words "to obtain from the British Government." It is also proposed to correct the sixth commitment, from the words "ask for a new regulation" to the words "London Stock Exchange" and the penultimate commitment, from the words "propose vigorously," with reference to TTIP" to the end. Finally, it is proposed to rephrase the last commitment as follows: to propose a coordination of the like-minded countries, including those of Southern Europe, to exit and then continue until the end. If we do not accept the rewording of motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 6, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, Mr President, on Resolution No 7 we will proceed quickly with the formulation of an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u50	The representative of the Government will tell me when he wishes to give his opinion on motion for a resolution No 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u53	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, our Group agrees with the approach that President Gentiloni has given to his speech here, although we are aware that we are facing the management of a serious defeat for the European Union and even more serious for the European idea. We agree with a system based on the principle of harm reduction, with the need for negotiations that see Europe at the table as a single subject and with a unitary and systemic approach. We agree, therefore, also with an opposition to bilateral agreements and, above all, to that single à la carte market which President Gentiloni recalled. We must be aware, however, that this will not be an easy dismantling; it will be complex, difficult and very risky for European citizens and fellow citizens living, working and working in Britain, who must therefore be protected. It is also necessary to avoid the return to a far west of finance and banks, with London as a financial centre essentially offshore and outside the European rules. Similarly, it is vital to maintain cooperation with Britain on security and defence. The story of Brexit we believe is also an opportunity to reflect and a lesson from which to learn for the future. First of all, with regard to the European Union, as we have also said on previous occasions, we can no longer continue to stand in the midst of the ford, between the sirens of a resurgent nationalism and a landing place for the United States of Europe that spends the most time and more resembles a utopia. Brexit - we must be aware of this - was a slap, but it can be a beneficial slap to rethink the European Union. It has also been a slap in the face of the great traditional parties and the ruling classes who have deliberately ignored how in these years of crisis the scissors of inequalities have opened up in a dangerous way also for democracy. Brexit was a slap to which cannot be given the simplistic answer that it is the effect of an irrational populism and an anti-European grudge produced by the economic crisis. We must look inside the data and results of Brexit: if in the referendum it voted little more than 5% more than those who voted in the 2015 general elections in Britain; if the rates of abstentionism have proved to be deeply spread between young and old; if among the young people there has prevailed the Remain, in a framework of very high abstentionism, while exactly the opposite has happened in the older age groups; well, this represents the tip of the iceberg of a deficit of representation of those who, in a nutshell, we could define the losers of globalization. If democratic politics and institutions do not know how to listen to this cry or find concrete answers in order to loosen the grip of the negative effects of globalization, one for all the process of progressive deindustrialization of our Old Continent; if neoliberal policies that in the collective imagination are increasingly associated with Europe and with a rigid and wrong interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact that over the years has ended up erasing its original system; if economic policies of this type will not be replaced by others, more expansive, oriented to a principle of redistribution and social equality; if therefore Europe does not return to be lived as an instrument of peace and prosperity, then they will eventually prevail egoisms, nationalisms and populisms and soon we will find ourselves discussing other exits. Finally, Brexit shows that Europe's strategy of hiding its head in the sand does not pay; indeed, it feeds the most negative instincts. In order to avoid further Brexit, the European Union must take on a historic and historic phenomenon such as migration and bring immigration policies to become a policy and political priority of the new European Union. Brexit is answered not by proposing old recipes, among other things wrong, but by the commitment and ability, which politics must demonstrate, to relaunch its role as guide and vision of processes, in the fundamental perspective of the fight against inequalities. A new Europe of solidarity and generosity is therefore needed to avoid new Brexit. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u56	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, we have already had the opportunity to express ourselves in the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council by giving the right suggestions and considering that his report was not exhaustive: it is a good start, but we must be aware that we are slightly underestimating the European issue and the issue that concerns us Italians. As I said in the previous speech, Britain has for decades had a discount on its contribution obligations to the EU budget, while we have always had to make a full contribution and we are helping the countries of Eastern Europe. When, for a logic of mutuality, we need for the problem of migratory flows, spades respond to us. Italy should be made a little 'hearing, clarifying that the failure to accept our requests could not fail to have immediate reflections on the possible vote of the Italian delegation. The negotiations with the United Kingdom must at the same time be as one - as has been said - which is entrusted to a single representative, in cooperation with the Commission and the European Parliament. The relevant proposals will in turn have to be adopted unanimously. This is the real negotiating ground on which the Italian initiative aimed at setting up a new Europe can be born, in order to recover the land so far lost. First I allowed myself to say that there are no more Andreotti, De Gasperi and Craxi, and we realize that. No nationalistic fury blinds us. It comforts us that in such a difficult negotiation the centrifugal forces, linked to the divergent interests of each country, can take over. To contain them in the name of European unity is therefore an indispensable requirement. But if this strategy is to have a minimum of success, participation must be broad. It takes absolute mutual respect: "One is worth one" would say our friends grill when they make surveys and seek their candidacy. Therefore, defending Italy's legitimate interests means defending the same European perspective, removing the ground from the pitfalls that torment it. We hope as a Group that President Gentiloni will be able to live up to such a difficult task, to carry out without unnecessary qualms, but with determination and the necessary strength; "A quiet force" would have said Francois Mitterrand, as the polar star of a reformism that, in order to assert itself, does not need useless placements, but focuses only on the charm of reason. And we hope that there will be so many Mitterrands in Europe, even if we doubt it. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u59	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the result of the first round of the French presidential election comes after those of Austria and Holland a few weeks ago. Although in a climate of great mistrust towards Europe, they are encouraging signs that populism and disintegrating forces within Europe can be overcome, provided that they are faced openly, with seriousness, without self-referentiality, but by claiming the role and function of the Union, its history and the full relevance of its values. As a Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE we have always welcomed the initiatives promoted by Italy in recent years to have a reversal of course. There are still many issues on the table, which are at the root of the discontent of many of our fellow citizens and which must be addressed. I am thinking of the issue of economic recovery, which also comes from the ability to meet the needs of so many of our entrepreneurs and farmers, who in recent years have suffered from Europe mainly constraints and norms that favored the interests of some countries to the detriment of others; the rents of position rather than the quality of the enterprises and the courage to innovate. But I am also thinking of immigration, an issue on which Italy, still today, is left too alone in the management of migratory flows. We need collegial management, we need to introduce the right of asylum at European level, also in order to make effective the right measures that have recently been introduced such as speeding up the recognition and return procedures. Work must be effective for the political stabilisation of the areas from which immigrants leave. Europe was born to break down walls, not to build them. This was the spirit of the founding fathers, a spirit that has changed the history of a Continent for centuries traversed by divisions and wars (as the land from which I come knows well), which has learned to recognize itself in the values of brotherhood and cooperation between peoples. For these reasons the way in which Brexit will be managed will also be important: no reprisal attitude, no warning to be given to other countries, for the simple reason that it would not serve anything, but a high, mature confrontation, in which clear rules of engagement are established to address immediately and in detail all the issues considered priority, beginning with those related to the financial stability of Europe, to move on to the topic of European citizens living in Britain. A comparison that leads to a comprehensive, final agreement, not à la carte, as President Gentiloni Silveri said well, but that establishes precisely the framework of relations between Europe and the United Kingdom. We know that it is not a simple passage, without historical precedents, that must be addressed with great attention, but also with the awareness that the context in which we move seems more favorable than that of a few months ago. President Gentiloni Silveri said well: it is not life insurance, but a small asset on which we can invest today to create a path that makes the Union credible again to its citizens, a Europe that overcomes the selfishness and uncertainties that have characterized it for too long. I will stop here and give the full text of my speech to the proceedings so that it can be annexed to the Report, announcing the Group's support for the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE Group to Resolution No. 1 which our Group shared. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u60	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u63	CASINI (AP-CpE). Mr President, I have to say that these debates are very useful, but also very long, so I will try to be brief in the explanation of vote. In my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council today has well interpreted the Italian position and the prevailing mood of this House. First of all, we feel and are deeply bound and friends of the United Kingdom. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]] We were sorry about Brexit's choice, but it is difficult to think of transforming a historic partner of the European Union and Italy from a friend into an enemy. Our history, the Liberation, on April 25, lead us to see history without the alteration of demagogy or irrationality. We have a very strong Atlantic relationship with the United Kingdom in our genetic code. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]] And even if there is a choice that we do not agree with, no choice can change our approach, which in no way can be transformed into a sort of retaliation or revenge against the United Kingdom. We have suffered Brexit: we were with those who, in England, tried to avoid Brexit and we believe that it is a very risky choice also for the unity of the United Kingdom, which however is an important element to safeguard. We have therefore taken this choice, we have not determined it, but today we respect it. The President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri rightly says some fundamental things. The first is that today's negotiation must take place in different times: firstly, we must negotiate the exit of the United Kingdom from Europe, then the status that arises from the new relationship between the countries of the European Union and the United Kingdom, keeping together the countries of the European Union and avoiding that there is a scattered negotiation. Another thing that Mr Gentiloni says and that I fully agree with is that we cannot think of leaving the European Union by maintaining the privileged status, as if we were inside but staying out of it, because this is an unacceptable claim that perhaps those who have campaigned for Brexit, without having fully understood the process that would have been triggered, have tried to assert themselves afterward, but this is a claim that is not standing and that is not even decent for the United Kingdom which has chosen to leave Europe in the majority. We have taken this choice and today we must negotiate with a country that remains a fundamental partner, for example in the fight against terrorism: how can we think of making Europe inviolable for terrorists if there is no close cooperation with the British Services and police authorities, which can teach so much in the history of humanity? This is about the relationship between our country and the United Kingdom, then there is a problem that concerns us alone, we Europeans. Many years have passed and in many circumstances we have heard that Europe could not be better integrated because the United Kingdom prevented progress in that direction. At this point, however, the alibis are over and if we want to make closer cooperation, as President Gentiloni Silveri rightly hopes in terms of defence, there are no more obstacles. Let us not invent new ones and let us not reveal the lack of will that many of the members of the European Union have shown, entrenched behind the excuse that Britain did not allow us to do so: in fact, we ourselves did not allow it, because we were uncertain about the direction to take. Today, as the Rome Summit has shown, either we move forward or we will be flooded with time. I do not vote in France and respect the choices of the French, of those who vote for Le Pen as those who vote for Macron, but I hope that Macron will win for one reason: because we have not seen French flags alongside European flags for years and Macron gives us the hope that Europe will start again. [[Applause from the AP-CpE and PD groups and Senator D'Ascola]] Italy, ladies and gentlemen, must not make a show of superiority, which would be ridiculous, but it must not even have a inferiority complex that would be just as wrong. In recent years there has been the Franco-German axis, but it was a formal and not substantial axis, because in reality the German Chancellor gave the addresses and France followed them. Both with Sarkozy and with Hollande, France has lost its also collaborative protagonism to carry Europe forward. Today Macron can set up a French propulsion in the Franco-German axis, to which Italy cannot declare itself indifferent or foreign, because these two great countries, in particular after the release of the United Kingdom, need the Italian contribution. Without Italy, these two countries cannot think of being self-sufficient in giving new directions to Europe. We therefore have a difficult and delicate phase to deal with, as President Gentiloni Silveri said, which offers us opportunities. We are trying to live up to the historic moment we are living in, and I believe that Parliament supports the Government with conviction for this very reason. I find myself deeply in the motion tabled by Senator Zanda; our parliamentary group strongly supports it because it interprets the best tradition of Italian intelligent Europeanism. [[Applause from the AP-CpE and PD Groups.]] (at 12.56)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u66	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, the United Kingdom has decided to leave the European Union, but no one has asked why. I don't know, they're crazy. According to the European Commissioners, everyone seemed to have gone crazy, because they didn't know what opportunity they would lose by leaving the single market. Perhaps the truth is that they have done two things and have understood that the European Union has not created the welfare that they expected should be there. The European Union is in fact basing itself on a premise and a promise that are in fact both false: the creation of greater well-being and the cancellation of inequalities between the various parts of the Union itself. Too bad this isn't real. It would be enough to look at what is written in the Maastricht and Lisbon Treaties. It does not say what fanatic Europeans think, namely the United States of Europe, the equalization of inequalities and greater prosperity for all. It says something else. It says what is already written in the World Trade Organization (WTO), i.e. free movement of goods, persons, capital, freedom of business establishment. Do we need the European Union to copy what the WTO writes? No, then since Italy is already present in the WTO, there was no need for someone to write the same things. That's right to make a premise. However, let us go further. I am sorry that the President of the Council is no longer present. I listened carefully to what you said and I also listened to what other people have said in here, which I consider to be chilling. I would then like to take a look at the motions before we proceed to the explanation of vote on the resolutions. It has been said that we must continue along the path of the European Union, making progress. I would like to remind you that it has been the progress that has been made over the last 20 years that has led us to the brink of the abyss. At most, we need to take a few steps back, not forward. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is in fact the steps forward that have brought us here. It has also been said that integration cannot be carried out at the pace of the most reluctant nations, that is to say those who have problems. So much for inclusiveness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So we either force, maybe kick, the most reluctant nations, or we dump them, or we do as we do with Greece, we strangle them, we tear them apart and we buy them. This is what the President of the Council or the deputy of the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, said. The result of the elections in the Netherlands and Austria was read as a legitimization of Europeanism. Guys, we can't evaluate the election here for our convenience. If the referendum in Britain does not do what we would like, then that is a bad result and if it goes in another way in the Netherlands, is that a good result? What is it? Alternating-current democracy? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I don't think that's the answer. Moreover, if the Dutch and Austrian citizens had been asked if they wanted to remain in the European Union, you could have spoken of legitimacy, but I recall that they voted for the renewal of Parliament and the Presidency of the Republic respectively. What's that got to do with anything? So, in the same way, why are you telling us that the referendum of 4 December has nothing to do with the European Union? At this point we say that it has something to do with it, because we find a link; do we want to see that we find it? We do potato to moon according to a sequence of logical associations, as we did when we were little. I would therefore like to focus on another issue: free trade and interreligious dialogue are protected by the European Union. Really? I believe they are protected by the WTO; the European Union has copied and therefore it is not true that free trade is protected from that, on the understanding that free trade agreements can be made without the need for the EU Treaties. So let's not bring up what doesn't have to do with it. If there are no arguments, as someone said, and you can't say anything good, don't say anything. But let's get on with it. It has been said that it is important to fit into the Franco-German axis, that is to stay at the table of those who matter; Italy must have a greater role. But is that the idea of the European Union that you have? That is, you have to make room and go where you command, why is it important to command and not suffer (always in the face of inclusiveness)? You say we have to move forward, but this is even worse. If this dose of medicine didn't work, we increase the medicine and kill the patient. Then someone talked about growth and said that we have a robust growth (it's half of everyone else, let's call it robust!), which has been going on for twenty years, i.e. since 1997. That's it. What happened in 1997? We have engaged irrevocably to the exchange rate (1936,27 lire) with the then European Unit of Account. Let me say the following: perhaps the cause of our lack of growth is that we have taken charge of a currency that did not belong to us. We have prevented imported inflation with currency from rebalancing economic imbalances, as all economic theories say (all, without exception). It has also been said that quantitative easing (QE), i.e. the European Central Bank that buys secondary government bonds, has fostered growth. I do not see how; at most, it has disadvantaged growth, because it has lowered interest rates and has reduced the ability of banks to pay the loan (since they have had to adjust their rate of remuneration to that of the European Central Bank). So, in fact, who do they lend this money to? Where do they bring fruit? You can't do that anymore. So this is also something that didn't work out. That's what I'm gonna say. There has been talk of designing the future of Europe, continuing in the design that has been made. These are words that President Gentiloni Silveri said earlier. Normally an artist, when he is painting and realizes that the drawing that came out is not good, does not try to mess with again adding more color and making layers on layers, but throws the canvas and starts again from scratch. We must have the courage to say that, if we really want to build a European Union that is what you say and not what it is, then we should take the cards back and give the deck another time, because this deck did not make anyone happy. No, maybe one made him happy in the short: Germany. After this, the President-in-Office of the Council, who is not here, would like to make a suggestion or perhaps even two: do as he is. For example, make yourself the President of the Council and not as if the President of the Council were Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi]] Or make it as if Italy were a sovereign nation, with 60 million people and a Constitution that the Italian people said on 4 December that they wanted to keep as it is, despite the fact that the President of the European Commission said it was important to change it, because otherwise it would have been a disaster. Do as if he were a person with a little pride and remind the President of the European Commission that, if he can afford to open his mouth, it is because Italian citizens also pay his salary and allow him to be there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He and all the other European Commissioners, who believe that they are above everything and allow themselves to tell the sovereign nations what is going on and what is wrong. They are sovereign nations, where free elections are held and where Constitutions have cost blood. And we have people like Juncker, who come from a tax haven within the European Union, who even allow themselves to give lessons in tax fairness to the other Member States. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At this point I, as Commissioner, would like Vallanzasca to give us lessons on how to make security at home, Totò Riina to give us lessons on how to combat organized crime and Bernie Madoff (that of the 80 billion-dollar crack, just to be understood) to tell us how to do fair financial transactions. So I would say do as if, do this, it's not very difficult to do. One more thing. Let us remind the Commissioners of the European Union on behalf of and on behalf of what they do, because, when this Council of Europe is done, every sovereign nation will have the right to tell the European Commission how to behave. The Commission has a negotiating mandate, which means that they are negotiating, but according to the lines that someone else gives them. And that someone else would be us. One more thing. Let us act as if the European Union were something democratic. I know that this is really a big fake, because democracy and the European Union within the same sentence I find it hard to put them; It takes a lot of distance between words and there's not enough. But let's pretend. Let us pretend that every time the European Parliament adopts a resolution, we carry it forward as a government and as a state and defend it in the European Council. Because I hear so many beautiful words. President Gentiloni Silveri said: "We hope", "We would like", "We would love ". What is it? A prayer? One goes to church to hope and desire. We are not hoping here. We sit at a table, representing a strong nation, and we have a duty to say certain things. We don't want anything. We demand. If he's not okay, he's not okay. As Charles de Gaulle said: treatises are like roses to women. They last for as long as they last. Do you want to consider him sexist? Charles de Gaulle said he wasn't the last one. So let's say the same thing. A treaty is something that has mutual convenience. If mutual convenience ceases, the treaty either changes or throws itself out. This is very simple. On the vote, as far as our resolution is concerned, we are asking for a split vote. We appreciate the reformulations that have been made, which convince us, but the three final points are three qualifying points. For those who read it, they do not mean taking a position for or against the European Union; they mean establishing a principle in the European Council for which we, like Italy, demand that things be done fairly. And fair means that every nation must have the same chance of entering and leaving the European Union in the same way: easy in, easy out. We want to make sure that, when it comes to the European Union, it is not said that being inside is a fantastic thing and being out is a terrible thing, because that is not fair. What are we proposing to the other nations? Bullshit. Fuffalo. We're telling a lie. That is what we say and that is why those three points are important: because it is time to stop going around telling lies and making people believe that this is the country of wonders. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u69	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate has been a missed opportunity. I didn't hear a serious analysis of why Brexit did it. The reason is pure and simple: because while we, as continental Europe, were going towards the establishment of an economic entity with the common currency, even if we were hesitant of a political subject (Lisbon), we were giving Britain everything Britain wanted, hoping that it would not leave. Inevitably, the contradiction has revealed itself, the ambiguity has dissolved and the British have dissolved it, leaving Europe. Now we are faced with an unwritten divorce procedure that creates many problems, as President Gentiloni Silveri explained. The second question is: why are we Europe under blackmail from countries in the European Union that do not respect fundamental rights, political rights and civil rights? I am referring to Orban's Hungary and Kaczynski's Poland. Why did we sign a lion's pact with Erdogan's Turkey? The reason is simple. Because the Americans have always seen the European Union as a market and as a barrier to Putin's Russia, not as an autonomous political entity. Without dissolving these ambiguities, Europe will not be. Either Europe builds its moral strength in full respect for rights or makes it a flag to be lifted before the whole world, a world run by many contradictions, or Europe will not be. Finally, Europe was the Europe of welfare, the Europe of promise not to leave anyone behind. But globalisation, already after the collapse of the Soviet Union and then, in an accentuated way, after the crisis of 2008, has created inequalities as they had never seen before, perhaps greater than those before the great crisis of 1929. If the difference between a salary and a top manager's income was, in the 1970s, one to twenty, it is now one to two thousand. And the manager is not responsible to companies either. Ladies and gentlemen, the era of Weber of Protestant ethics and the spirit of capitalism has ended. The manager is solely responsible to shareholders and bondholders. If the company doesn't invest, if the company doesn't think about the future, if the company fires, the manager goes ahead. That is why Europe is clearly being undermined in this way. If we do not relaunch a Europe of solidarity, solidarity of the peoples, a Europe that fights inequalities, going in the opposite direction to that of Trump America, then there will be no Europe. Let me add a few words about France. Senator Casini, if what you said were to come true, if what you wished was to happen, if the Slav from Republicans and Socialists towards the Macron party were to become more pronounced in order to beat the Le Pen party not only in the second round, but also in the legislative, I would say to you that you are celebrating a victory of triumphant misfortune, to quote a great philosopher from Frankfurt. In fact, it is the same thing that Weimar's parties did to Hitler. If you have on the one hand a non-starter with a pro-Europeanism and with obvious hetero-direction by banks and large companies, markets if you prefer, and on the other hand you have a nationalist and protectionist party that in Europe necessarily has reminiscences and fascist veins, what will happen in the medium term? It will happen that the second will become very, very strong. Europe, in this way, builds its end. I simply say this: if we want to relaunch the European process, ladies and gentlemen, we should turn to the Spinelli project, to the Ventotene Manifesto, not to the silent and Dorothy way in which Andreotti signed the Maastricht Treaty as President of the Council. I conclude by saying that of course the Italian Left will vote in favour of its resolution and because on international issues we must give priority to the spirit of unity, we accept the rewordings that have been asked of us. With regard to Resolution No 1 signed by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller, I share the mechanism of the proposals that are being made to prevent Brexit from causing more trouble but, in my opinion, there is no context, so we cannot go beyond abstention. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u72	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the British people's choice of leaving the European Union must first be respected and honoured. The English island has not sunk. The world hasn't stopped. All the catastrophists who advocated ruins for the world economy have been denied. There was no panic in the markets, nor any race to traditional refuge goods, such as gold, which from June 2016 to April 2017, saw its value grow only by 1%. Brent oil was appreciated by 10 percent, following the natural course of the forecasts of the major international institutes. The stock market indices of the major stock markets, in the same period, were appreciated: the British market of 16%, the European market of 10%, the German market of 19%, the Italian market of 11%, and the American index of 11%, Japanese and Hong Kong were also appreciated. There has been a natural evolution of the exchange rates between sterling, euro and dollar, which has generated a revaluation of the euro on the pound (by 10%), but also of the dollar on the British currency and a corresponding appreciation of the euro on the dollar. Thus a total linearity even of the currency markets. The growth of the gross domestic product of the European and British economies has followed the expected rates, therefore no upheaval on the value of goods and even less of the economies. Just starting from these considerations, which denote an orderly development of relations between Europe and the United Kingdom, we must set a path that, as President Gentiloni Silveri has specified, leads to friendly and shared negotiations. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to have a constructive relationship with the United Kingdom so that economic and trade relations can continue in the wake already outlined. Trade interchanges should be safeguarded in order to maintain mutual direct and portfolio investment, perhaps taking the opportunity to turn them into long-term investment. The closer the economic relations between Europe and the United Kingdom, between Italy and the United Kingdom, the more positive the political relations will be, the more friendly our peoples will be. In this respect, it will be necessary to ensure that the relations between the 27 and the United Kingdom do not leave room for egoism, confusion and uncertainty, which in some cases have characterised the approach of the European institutions in relation to the passages provided for in Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. It will therefore be desirable to strengthen the mutual trust between the Old Continent and a country that after the political elections on 8 June will have a more solid legitimacy and authority that will benefit both parties in the subsequent negotiations. It is therefore necessary to marginalise the possible animus davandi which could qualify certain European countries or certain members of the institutions themselves, in order not to cause confusion and uncertainties which already characterize, in some cases, the work of the Union. Brexit should above all be an opportunity to review the relations between the European Union and its citizens and to better understand the growing disaffection towards the European institutions and towards decisions, which have all too often fallen from the top, which over the years have limited the sovereignty of individual states and fuelled anti-European drives. In this regard, the Italian Government must further call for a greater commitment by the Union, no more word of mouth, so that once and for all the immense migratory pressure that Italy suffers, with increasing burdens, so as to impose continuous sacrifices on the country, in the total disinterest of other European countries. As Italy, we also believe it is legitimate to claim, at the European Council, the assignment of at least one of the European Agencies now based in London. In this regard, we have no doubt that our country will work hard to achieve the important objective, which would produce new jobs, an appreciable input and a greater role, therefore, of Italy in the Union. Finally, we must not forget the great Italian community in the United Kingdom, which, while living outside the border, must continue to feel bound and protected by our country and to be recognized rights and protections, without any discrimination. It must therefore be avoided that the announced speed - by the European Ombudsman - of the Brexit negotiations can eventually give birth to blind kittens and thereby undermine the final objective, while the hope is that they will be conducted with the prudence and friendship due to a historical and strategic ally, also and above all in the fundamental fight against terrorism. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u75	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, at the end of this debate, on which the Group of the Democratic Party declares that it fully shares the communications of the President-in-Office of the Council Gentiloni Silveri, I would like to highlight a number of concrete points that should be taken into account by the Government, but I regret that the debate has offered, rather than an opportunity for discussion on the future of the European Union, more polemical ideas, in some cases obvious and also - alas - some vulgarity. Firstly, the UK's exit presents opportunities, but also challenges. We must avoid, for example, the European Union seeing its bureaucratic tradition strengthened, because the United Kingdom had effectively fought the bureaucratic dimension and the excess of legislation. I believe that this must be borne in mind when we want to build a European Union closer to our citizens. From this point of view we lose an important contribution from our Anglo-Saxon friends. Secondly, it is important that the reduction in the budget, which will result in the UK's failure to pay its share, unduly weakens the financial structure of the European Union. We know that the United Kingdom had always fought a battle to pay less than would have been proportionally due by a Member State of its economic and demographic strength, but today these contributions have decreased and we will therefore have to ensure that the Union can have adequate resources to achieve the ambitious objectives that it must set itself. Thirdly, we should take this opportunity to bring about tax harmonisation of the European Union's systems, an issue which the United Kingdom had always opposed. On the other hand, we need no tax dumping within the Union, and we also need the final abolition of tax havens. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that the United Kingdom should not become a huge tax haven, which would be a serious threat to us at the door of the European Union. Therefore, in the negotiations with the Government of your Majesty it will be necessary for this point to be kept particularly under observation. We must also seize this opportunity to strengthen a policy for alternative energy sources. The United Kingdom had often pushed for an opening to nuclear sources and alternative sources such as shale gas, but with the absence of British presence we must instead favour the idea that the European Union should focus its attention on the exploitation of green, clean alternative energy sources. With the absence of the United Kingdom, then a proud opponent of the eurozone is missing and today we need to strengthen the European Union, for example by establishing a European banking union and a eurozone budget. Many of the limits of the eurozone's action are due precisely to the fact that we have stopped in the middle of the ford; One of its main opponents is missing today, so it is appropriate to take this opportunity to move forward, cross the river and move towards stronger economic and financial integration of the Member States. We must also strengthen the uniform protection of copyright and bring to Italy a seat of the Unified Patent Court, from which Italy had incredibly withdrawn when it was established. This goes to protect more the intellectual heritage of small and medium-sized enterprises that today represent a fundamental wealth of our country. It is therefore necessary that on the subject of copyright, another of the issues on which the United Kingdom had set its feet, there is progress. The European defence system must also be integrated. Two or three years ago, we had a major debate that had come to a halt precisely because of British resistance and perplexity. Today, precisely with the failure of the Trump administration's support for NATO funding, this is an opportunity to develop a common defence system. Finally, greater cooperation on social issues needs to be developed. I believe that our parliamentary group is particularly concerned about the fact that there is a common European framework on working conditions and on social protection issues, because these are issues that are complementary to the completion of a single market and it is therefore an opportunity to ensure that the European Union becomes not only an unfinished project, but something that can also develop a common position on these issues, a real integration. Having said that, I should like to end by repeating my positive opinion to the first-signed motion for a resolution by Senator Zanda, who is well-arguing and articulating the whole position of our Parliamentary Group on European issues; a position of deep conviction on the need to move the European Union forward and therefore to seize this opportunity as the opportunity to carry out a project to date only partially completed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u76	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on motion for a resolution No 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u77	Mr President, I support the motion for a resolution No 7, first signed by Senator Romani Paolo, provided that the following rewordings are accepted: amending the third paragraph of page 2 of the premises, eliminating the words: 'After the fall of moral credibility of the German hegemony,' and leaving the following: 'Italy has the historical task of relaunching on a new and concrete basis the European dream of the founding fathers...' I then propose to correct the following three paragraphs, from the words "to follow" to the words "never really implemented." Then there are some rewordings regarding point 1) of the device. In point (h), I propose replacing the words 'to designate the Court of Justice' by the words 'to promote the designation of the Court of Justice'. In point (i) I propose to replace the words 'to define a financial settlement' by the words 'to promote a financial settlement'. As for point (j), I propose to replace the words "to reach" with the words: "to work towards achieving". Finally, with reference to point (k), I propose the following rewording: "to support the desire to cooperate with the United Kingdom and to maintain an economic partnership as close as possible to each other's advantage." As regards commitment 2, I propose to replace the words between bilateral agreements with the following: incentive mechanisms enabling Member States to do so. In addition, I propose to replace the following words: "does not fall under the words "even by identifying types of investment to be expunged from "" and to remove the remaining part of the paragraph after the words "3" per cent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u78	As various proposals have been put forward for rewording, I will ask the presenters whether they intend to accept them. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means and I will repeat the request for a split vote in motion for resolution No 5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5, for which a request has been made for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u81	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would be prepared to accept the rewording proposals put forward by the Government but I would ask for the separate vote on our motion for a resolution: the first part covers the whole text except for the last three commitments of the instrument, while the second part covers the last three commitments of the mechanism.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u82	I put to the vote the request for a split vote on motion for a resolution No 5, tabled by Senator Martelli. It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. We do not approve the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to motion for a resolution No 6, on which the representative of the Government has proposed rewordings. I would ask the first signatory, Senator De Petris, if you will accept these rewordings. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to motion for a resolution No 7, on which the representative of the Government has proposed rewordings. I would ask the first signatory, Senator Paolo Romani, whether he intends to accept these proposals. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am in favour of the reformulation proposals. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u83	I announce that the Senate will meet on Tuesday, 2 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the President's statement on the agenda. I also say that the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups is convened on Tuesday, 2 May, at 3 p.m. Finally, Parliament is convened at 2 p.m. on Thursday 4 May for the vote on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The honourable senators will vote first.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u86	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking briefly only to inform the House of an initiative: this morning, together with the Lombard Senators, I asked a question about the uncertain fates of the workers of K-Flex SpA, a company in Roncello, Brianza, which makes about 320 million euros a year and has about 2,000 employees scattered around the world. It is a healthy company, which has decided to fire 187 workers at the production site of Roncello. The company has deserted all contact, even those prepared by the Minister of Economic Development (MISE), on April 26 the terms of the trade union procedure have expired and no agreement has been reached. In particular, it has to be said that K-Flex has been able to receive funding for its activity in recent years, amounting to 15 million euros, and strong of this funding has structured an important reality, as a leading company in the rubber insulation sector. We suffer the damage and the mockery: we have contributed, as I think it is important, to make this company assert itself in the world and now we have the will to relocate productions in Poland. After the damage, then, there is the mockery: after granting economic aid to internationalize, there is now a bitter surprise and 187 workers, who have helped to make this company become important in the world, are walking from morning to evening. I therefore hope that the Government will respond immediately to my question and to the questions I ask, precisely because it is important to understand that companies must be helped by the Government, but they must also respond positively to the contribution that we, Italian citizens, offer to develop them. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u89	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I rise to remind everyone of the tragic situation that Venezuela is experiencing. For weeks the squares have been invaded by citizens protesting against the Government of Maduro, carrying on what they call the mother de todas las marchas (the mother of all marches), a peaceful popular revolt that, however, has been repressed with blood by the so-called colectivos, pro-government armed groups. The image of the middle-aged lady who stops with her body the armored struck us all for the disproportion of the forces, for the firmness of the woman, for the refusal of violence. To date, 27 people have died and hundreds have been injured. The oppositions, which represent the majority of the population, will continue to go down to the streets every day until they have achieved four main objectives: the liberation of political prisoners, such as Leopoldo Lopez and Antonio Ledezma (the best known); the convening of free elections; the creation of a humanitarian corridor to guarantee food and medicines to Venezuelan citizens; and the prohibition of the judges of the Supreme Court, an expression of the government in office, which a few weeks ago stripped the Parliament of the legislative power, and then back a couple of days later under international pressure. The situation is getting hotter and hotter. Maduro announced his exit from the Organization of American States and, if that were not enough, proclaims that he wants to distribute half a million rifles to pro-government militias. The risk of civil war is concrete. The aberration of democracy and the institutional crisis go hand in hand with the economic and social crisis, which is bringing a once prosperous country to its knees. Venezuela has not been able to achieve an effective industrial policy over the years and has become a slave to oil exports. Unfortunately, however, the collapse of the price of the barrel has plunged the country into the abyss, and the situation will only worsen: in these days General Motors has announced to suspend all its operations in Venezuela, after the authority of Caracas has seized the plant. Venezuela is experiencing the most serious humanitarian crisis in its history, with an annual inflation of 800 percent and a poverty rate of almost 80% of the population. Despite the obvious lack of food, medicines and medical devices, the Government, however, hinders the entry into the country of all humanitarian aid and the various international initiatives, including non-governmental ones, in support of the population. The Senate, a few months ago, approved a motion that commits our government to the tragic situation in Venezuela. And today, in the light of a crisis that grows from day to day, I renew my appeal to our Executive to take every useful initiative to restore democratic principles and restore dignity to the Venezuelan people, with whom I remember we have deep ties. Finally, taking up the words expressed yesterday in the Chamber by Mr Sangalli, I would be grateful if you could urge the Government to report in the Senate on the dramatic situation in Venezuela, which we are following with apprehension through national and international media. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u92	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the sitting I would like to ask the Government to reply to four urgent questions, pursuant to Rule 151 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. The first question is the inspection act 3-03621, presented on March 28, with which I posed the case of CheBanca, of the Mediobanca group, which following the purchase of the branch of the company constituted by the network of branches of the English bank Barclays, announced in mid-March to the trade union organizations the closure of 39 branches and 131 redundancies. It is absolutely urgent to understand from the Government what concrete policies it intends to put in place the Government in order to discourage depressive business policies of the employment potential of our Country. With the urgent question 3-03512, submitted on 21 February, addressed to Minister Poletti, I intervened instead to denounce the dismissal of four women employees of the production unit of Via Giovanni della Casa, in Milan, of the Marcegaglia SpA group, despite the fact that the company had recently declared an improvement in the financial situation. To strike, besides the merit of the matter, is the method carried out by the company. In fact, on the four dismissals, three would strike employees who have always been engaged in the union: it seems that Marcegaglia's will is to get rid of the union representatives, perhaps seen as an impediment to the achievement of the objectives of reorganization of the staff. I also ask the question 3-03466 about the dismissal of 187 workers of the K-Flex of Roncello, in the province of Monza-Brianza; a thriving company that has 2,000 employees worldwide and who invoice hundreds of millions of euros. The parade of 25 April in Milan opened precisely with the delegation of these workers: the company used millions of euros of public money to finance branches abroad and then fired and closed the plant in Italy. Finally, on the same subject, I would like to ask the question 3-03698.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-813.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.41 a.m.
