ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 27 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,03 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 9 (Report of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016) and 10 (Project of Senate internal budget for the financial year 2017). The rapporteur, Senator Tonini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u5	Mr President, the College of Quaestors, at the meeting of the Presidents of the Commission, which, under the Rules, as President of the Budget Commission, I had the honour to chair, presented the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 and the draft budget for the financial year 2017. This was followed by a discussion and it is my responsibility to report the essential facts. Then there will be a broad report by the quaestor senators, who will illustrate in detail the "maneuver" inside the Senate, starting from the final data of 2016 and with regard to the current year, i.e. 2017. I would like to begin with this description, which will be very quick and essential, and I would like to say that in a few days' time, on 4 August, thirty years will have passed since the election of Beniamino Andreatta as President of the Budget Commission. Andreatta was elected President of the Budget Commission on 4 August 1987, at the beginning of the 10th legislature, and held office for the entire legislature. On May 24, 1989, doing what I am trying much more humbly to do now, it began like this: "Mr. President, an increasingly demanding public opinion" we talk about thirty years ago "look with some critical cue, which sometimes becomes sharp and heavy, our work... I believe that it is part of the dignity of our way of putting ourselves before the public the ability on the one hand to set the example of an organisation that tends to excellence and, on the other hand, the example of controlability of both costs and organisational modules. One could say: do the best possible with the maximum possible saving of public resources. Then, a few steps later, he added: We cannot fail to note that in the last ten years, for five times, expenditure has exceeded the rate of increase of 25%, with a maximum of 36 percent, that is, one year in the eighties where the expenditure of the Senate increased by 36 percent compared to the year before: the average was 25. And that only from 1988 (i.e. from the year before) we are moving around 10 percent increase in expenditure. Here, you will forgive me this quote, due to the weakness I have for Andreatta, but it is too interesting to read today, which measures the breadth of the path we have made. Many times we sin, as a country and also as a Parliament, of nostalgia - suffice it to say that in my place there was Andreatta; it is clear that it was another Senate - but the golden age never existed, and perhaps that age was gold in the sense that it was spent and wasted. Fortunately, there were also men like Nino Andreatta who fought for a more careful use of resources. Senators Quaestors will be much more punctual than I am, but we are moving on a different order of magnitude: the 2012 Senate summary had closed at 520 million euros; Today we are discussing a 2016 report, the one that has been presented to us by Senators Quaestors, which reduces the resources used by the Senate to 492 million euros. More than 10 percent of the increase that Andreatta considered a great result! Here there is a cut in the nominal budget, therefore a dry reduction of available resources: 28 million euros less during the parliamentary term, every year; a reduction in the budget in nominal terms: a flattering result for the Senate Administration, of course for the Senate Presidency, for the quaestors senators, for the Secretary General and for the whole Senate machine that can show up with a respectable budget. We can tell Italian citizens that we are doing what the whole state should do - of course, we know that the state budget is much more complex - that we are doing better and trying to do our best by learning to spend less. This is a pallino for those who, pro tempore, have the role of leading the Budget Commission, but it should be an assailant that involves us all; it certainly involved us all as Senate of the Republic. Today we can tell our fellow citizens that the Senate certainly costs less than it cost at the beginning of this parliamentary term; it costs less not only in real terms but also in nominal terms, and I believe that this is a very important result. Having said that, we are not just here to congratulate ourselves - even if occasionally give some encouragement to the positive work we are doing I think it is useful - but we are also here to reflect on the things that still need to be addressed. If we look at the tables presented in the report, after the first table measuring the path we have made, there is a second, more critical one (Table 5), which instead measures the composition of the expenditure, in particular by identifying two large blocks: general operating expenditure and social security expenditure. The latter is still the great handicap of the Senate budget, on which, moreover, there is a small positive notation, which I will then mention. The Senate budget came to the following composition: 55.06 percent were for general operating expenses, while 44.94 percent (practically 45%) were for social security expenditure, adding up social security expenditure for former senators and that for former senators of the Senate. This is and remains a critical issue - we had already talked about it in last year's budget - which needs to be addressed; in agreement with the House of Deputies of course, but it certainly needs to be addressed. There is one final table on which I wanted to draw your attention: Table 7, which is the final summary of compulsory expenditure. It is that expense that is difficult to change from one year to the next, but you can only change by imagining long paths. Table 7 of the report tells us some things that it is important to know. The first is that the cost of the senators and parliamentary groups, that is, the real political activity of the Senate, which in the end is the heart of the Senate's work, is firm and stable, and has settled somewhat under 100 million (about 98 million). It is a spending that falls reasonably, slowly; it has stabilized at a level that I believe is reasonable. It's falling - although it's a smaller drop than what's in the table, because I discovered a mistake in it - spending on former senators, on vitality. Of course, the expenditure on vitality has a sinusoidal trend, because it is steeped at the beginning of the legislature, when a large number of senators no longer hold the post of senator, but becomes a group of former retired senators or, as was said once, with vitality. So this expense grows, then mother nature takes its course and this expense falls. We have so many commemorations of former Members in this House and, as we make them, spending on former senators is falling. [[Laughter]] So there is a physiological trend; then, at the beginning of the legislature, there is again a surge. However, for some time now, every time the surge is a little less than the previous one and the decrease is more noticeable than the previous one. I understand the hilarity. We would need a more detailed analysis, but I believe that part of this saving trend is due to the reforms that have been made in the past years: I refer to those of ten years ago, in particular, that have reduced the yield, despite the still pay system, and have significantly increased the minimum age in order to gain access to the then vitality. Finally, in 2012 there was the reform that introduced the contributory system also for former senators. More problematic, however, it seems to me the picture on the issue of our great and fundamental collaborators, who are the employees of the Senate, without whom our work would be impossible, to whom therefore goes all our gratitude, all our esteem and, for those who are older than the woods, like myself, even a bit 'of affection, because they are people with whom we have worked elbow to elbow for a long time. There is a fairly rapid fall in spending on employees in service, which, of course, from a certain point of view, represents savings, but which, from another point of view, is reaching the limits of the depletion of our structure. So there is a reflection on this: to what extent is it imaginable to go on with this trend without compromising the functionality of the essential services of the Senate? On the other hand, however, there is a very strong increase in the expenditure on pension benefits for these of our employees: of course, those who retire leave the chapter "Personal employed in service" and enter the chapter "Personal in quiescence"; and the growth of the item "Personal in quiescence" is very high, as you can see from Table 7. This is not the place to go into this matter, but we certainly need to find a solution that respects what has been achieved, the careers and rights of these very important state officials, obviously addressing this issue in a joint way with that of Members of Parliament. That is at least my opinion, but it seems to me that, looking at the papers, it is an obvious fact. Addressing this issue has become the main urgency. More generally, the staff issue also refers to the issue of rationalization of the Offices, in particular in the relationship between the two branches of Parliament. I believe that we must push very strongly, as I know that the Presidency Council has been doing and has done for a long time to this side, towards the unique role of Chamber and Senate staff, so as to ensure an optimal distribution of resources between the common services: everything that can be shared, as I know that the Secretariat-General and the Presidency Council are studying and organizing, must be shared, so as to ensure the maximum result with the least effort. I would like to conclude with a final mention of an innovative element in recent years: with the reform of Article 81 and the subsequent laws implementing the new Article 81 of the Constitution, the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget was established, which has established itself and is being affirmed as an authority on the correctness of the state's accounts from the point of view of macroeconomic forecasts and, therefore, from the point of view of the financial maneuvers that Parliament must approve. You know that we have been talking for so many years about establishing such an authority, which has been strongly advocated at European level, after the events of the Greek crisis, which were partly due to unreliable budgets. Therefore, the reliability of the public budget has become an essential element also in European relations. Thus, the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget was set up, which last year, perhaps even in general indifference, whistled, as a referee does, the phallus, recalling the Government to the correctness of macroeconomic forecasts for 2017. In the autumn of last year, the Parliamentary Budget Office did not validate the government's growth forecasts for 2017, somehow forcing it to review them. For the truth, the facts were then right for the Government, because in reality Minister Padoan can claim that he was right, since his was not a misplaced optimism, but it was absolutely founded. However, I believe that it was a victory for Parliament that, thanks to this structure that we established and wanted it to be in Parliament and not outside, the Government was forced to return to the Chambers, fixing the accounts as the Parliamentary Budget Office had requested. This digression only serves to say one thing. We must put this important parliamentary structure in the best position to work. There is an agenda that I have tabled, in agreement with all the Heads of Group of the Budget Commission, of course, having first heard and agreed with the Quaestors, the Presidency and the Secretariat-General, so that the problem of the structures to be set up by this important Office which we wanted to be placed within Parliament can be resolved. This is the overall picture, as it was addressed at the meeting of the Presidents of the Commission. As always, the budget debate is also a useful opportunity to reason on how we work. Some Members have re-launched the age-old issue of the division of tasks between the House and the Commissions, which is certainly one of the key points of our work and there are many issues on how this House works. A living Parliament - we all believe in a Parliament as a central structure and a fundamental resource of our democracy - is the one that knows how to renew itself and, for this reason, I believe that we must all work, each according to his own role and what belongs to him, because it is in the common interest of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u6	He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, I would like to remind you that the College of Quaestors is submitting to the Assembly the final report for the financial year 2016 and the draft internal budget for 2017, in addition to the 2017-2019 three-year budget. In my brief speech, I will examine the accounting documents quickly and explain the main figures which represent the results on the expenditure side achieved by the political management bodies of this branch of Parliament. For more details, of course, I refer you to the accounting documents attached to the sitting report. Let's start immediately from the 2016 final report. Expenditure is reduced from EUR 520 million in 2012 to approximately EUR 492 million in 2016, thus well below the threshold of EUR 500 million in the famous years 2000. The reduction is EUR 28 million, which means a saving of 5.5% compared to the previous year. Our goal is to have a simpler, faster and more efficient Senate: necessary criteria for a public administration that is today called to face up to the challenges of modernisation and innovation. The Senate is a constitutional body that could be compared to the law factory. Think of the more than 860 sessions for thousands and thousands of hours of work, and also in the Permanent Commissions, with more than 5,778 sessions, for a total of 476 bill approved, as well as motions, questions, hearings, etc. You understand, therefore, what an important work this branch of Parliament is doing. From the 2012 balance sheet, as I said earlier, the general operating expenditure of the Senate has decreased from 330 million euros (they represented 63 percent of the total expenditure) to 271 million euros today (they amounted to 55 percent), so we are talking about 59 million euros of less spending. I believe that this is a very fundamental and important aspect. Compared to 2015, both operating and social security expenditure fall below levels that have never been achieved and we take into account that in the budgets of the public administration, as in those of all companies, this expenditure is never considered within the budget itself. With regard to our health care, which is totally borne by the senators (so it does not weigh on the coffers of the Senate), in these five years of administration we have to date a surplus of 1.6 million euros. So I think it's a careful administration with respect to the resources managed directly by us senators and not by the institution. Moving on to the budget and road map of savings and spending containment actions, our roadmap provides for five years to save and best commit resources. On social security treatments for former senators and former employees, through the contribution of solidarity, from 2014 to 2016 we had a savings of 17 million euros, so there was a special attention also to the savings related to ourselves. With regard to the treatment of internal posts, which was immediately installed in 2013, the President of the Senate wanted, at the first meeting of the Presidency Council, to make an immediate reduction that concerned himself and also all the posts within the Presidency Council. More than 30% of the reductions directly concerned both the powers of the members of the Presidency Council and the special secretariats. The Senate has opened the challenge of modernisation, which is now common to both the public and the private: focusing on innovation serves to improve the production process, with the renewal of computer infrastructures: there has been a real digital revolution and our stations have become increasingly "virtual" with the cloud system, like those we are now accustomed to with our mobile phones and with the most modern systems. I would like to say that today the Senate of the Republic is leading all parliaments at European and international level thanks to this new system that we have put in place. Moreover, with this new system a great saving is achieved, of more than 3.6 million euros. A Senate 4.0 could not, moreover, not foresee a digital reproduction contract, with the reduction of print runs of paper copies; so we reduced the production of paper within us by 75 percent, from 80 to 20 million copies. This was therefore a very important reduction. This also led us to the dematerialization of parliamentary acts: as many as 18,659 acts were published in digital format, while another 153,000 acts are in the Senate's digital archive, saving an additional 4.2 million euros. Innovation has also led us to apply today's normal aspects of our everyday life: through the app called Tabulas you can find in electronic format all the acts and numerous activities we have carried out. We can also say that the Senate has become a green Senate, with electric cars, small utilitarian cars that we have used, and hybrid cars. We switched to the photovoltaic panels that we have at the Trullo structure, to 90 percent of the lamps (installed in the palaces of the Senate that we have changed), with low consumption. Also with important savings compared to our consumption: about two million euros only with regard to all the activities that we have put in place. In addition, we have photovoltaic panels with a power of over 200 kilowatts, which allow the reset of the electrical bill of the structures and, in addition, implement other structures of the Senate itself. A further attention that we gave immediately, at the beginning of 2013, is that of the disposal of rentals and utilities. In five years we have reduced them with a saving of more than ten million euros. I also remember the attention we wanted to give to the Senate itself, with the resumption of the maintenances inside us: from the small to the great maintenances that we have seen, both here in Palazzo Madama and in the inner courtyards and in the other stables around here. All small measures must be taken to ensure the proper functioning of the procedures themselves. The 2017 forecast budget itself continues the trend that, as we have seen, is downhill and, in fact, this year provides for 539.5 million. So, it's further decreased. Likewise, in this legislature we have achieved a saving of EUR 188.11 million for the functioning of the Senate. So the state spends € 188 million less in five years. This is a very important aspect. 108 million euros of less budget from the State that, if we calculate also the real aspect, in real terms, of the budget, brings us to the historical minimum compared to all the previous years; 80 million euros of sums returned to the public coffers and, therefore, to the State itself. The cost of the Senate decreased from 0.083 to 0.059 compared with government expenditure. Practically, for every thousand euros that the state spends, the Senate spends 0.59 cents. This is another important aspect that President Tonini mentioned earlier in the path of saving and attention that we wanted to give to the Senate itself in these years. The Senate is based on three pillars: staff, that of us senators and that of services. I start immediately from the senators who, even in these days and in these years, are increasingly reproached for expenses and other matters. We have achieved a reduction in the allowance and ancillary skills of EUR 37.2 million. From 2001 to 2017, the relationship between spending on senators' allowances and the Senate budget has halved: from 19 percent to 10 percent. This is an important aspect to be reiterated in this House. Added to this, then, also the solidarity contribution of 2014-2016 that brings an additional savings of 17 million euros. This is another positive fact of our journey of these years. Another fundamental pillar for the Senate, but I think it is for all institutions, it is that of staff. We have dropped from 1,098 employees to 644 units: practically, the number is almost halved, with more than 40 percent less staff. This is an important aspect to take into account, also in the collaboration with the House with respect to the unique role of the staff itself, in the functional integrations that we have made for the restarting, between the two branches of Parliament, also of new competitive possibilities. Equally fundamental and important is to understand, within the Senate itself, what can be the procedures already in place of public selections, which can be accessed in order to give, compared to some services, the minimum necessary to work in a concrete way. Similarly, the introduction of staff remuneration ceilings will allow a total savings of EUR 36.7 million, of which EUR 7.3 million is expected only for 2017. The remuneration for 2017 will be reduced by €1.8 million compared to 2016. This is an important reduction of 34.2% less than the 2011 figure, the last to which we refer. In 2011 the expenditure on salaries amounted to 141 million, while in 2017 the forecast was 92.7 million euros: a 34.2 percent reduction equivalent to 48 million euros. I believe that this is another important fact of the path we have followed to date. As I have mentioned, with the resumption of the approval procedure between the two Chambers, there is one aspect that concerns selection, given the drastic reduction in staff and the Presidency Council has already given the Quaestors a mandate to report on the desirability of drawing certain staff units from the ranking of suitable final competitions, in the context of what has been done in the past during the public selections by the Senate. Another important pillar is that of services, which concerns the work of technological and IT modernisation of the Parliament's budget, but also of the Commission's classrooms. For example, the open date site of the Senate is now completely innovated with a whole series of procedures in an open format and accessible also to people with disabilities. It is planned to renew all the audio-visual transmission equipment of the directing room, the implementation of the Senate's web TV with eight channels at the same time and an unlimited number of deferred transmissions, as we were asked through various agendas of the day during the examination of previous budgets; this in order to transmit, even in the case of several concurrent Commissions, a direct streaming of the various meetings of the Commission. Just look at the numbers: 857 plenary sessions since the beginning of the parliamentary term, 1,550 Commission sessions and 1,000 press conferences have been broadcasted live streaming since the beginning of the parliamentary term. Ideally, but also concretely, this is one of the ways in which the Senate has opened its doors to the outside, to ensure the maximum transparency of its work for the benefit of the citizens. In this regard, to date more than three million people have followed the Senate's work through various computer tools, from mobile phones to tablets. This is a concrete demonstration of the opening of the Senate and of what we wanted to do to our citizens. The Senate is also a place of work for many operators, from press workers to journalists, to all the other operators who follow us. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them, also on behalf of the other quaestors, for their daily interest in our work. I believe that this is one of the most important aspects. In a few minutes my colleague, Senator Bottici, will be speaking about a completely innovative initiative, as a testimony that not only the reduction of expenditure has been pursued, but also a focus on the quality of the work we are doing. This is a completely new context, which is the Office for the Assessment of the Impact of Public Policies, which I believe is the first within a public institution in Italy and among the first in Europe. This is another very important aspect for our country, but my colleague, Mrs Bottici, will explain it better. Other expenditure reductions are reliable from the races carried out, including the digital reproduction center, the press agency platform, the travel agency, computer infrastructure, the web TV, catering and a whole series of other races being defined, such as prepress, press review, radio and television monitoring, the new video shooting system of the Chamber, the Senate crate, the satellite channel. Competitions that we are following carefully, precisely to ensure maximum transparency and the best services within the Senate of the Republic. All these further races and reductions can lead us to make a conservative estimate for 2017 of 16 million euros of additional savings and others can come with the integration between the House and the Senate. In conclusion, I would like to point out that on 10 May last the Senate Presidency Council and the Chamber Bureau adopted two important resolutions on the unique role of staff and functional integration. These functional integrations have already produced parliamentary poles, where several offices have been put together, such as health services, IT services, documentation services, with the implementation of the existing library center and historical archives. There is also a procedural scheme for common competitions, to be done between the Chamber and the Senate. Already some races have been carried out together by Chamber and Senate: I am talking about the management of computer services, customer support, prepress and press review and satellite channel. It is hoped that what has happened will soon find an appropriate accounting representation in the budgets of the two chambers and we hope that this will happen in the near future, now in the next parliamentary term, in such a way that the two branches of Parliament will increasingly be integrated. What was briefly said was the challenge that we wanted to take as an Administration. I warmly thank all my fellow senators, President Grasso, Secretary-General and Deputy Secretaries-General, Directors, Officials and all the people who have collaborated with us in the various secretariats, the Forces of Order (Carabinieri and Police), who are normally here in force, the stenographers and not for the last time our parliamentary assistants, whom I would like to extend a special thanks for the work, assistance and help that they also give us in this House. In the parliamentary budget, which comes to an end, I would like to think of a Parliament 4.0, an open and digital law factory, and I thank you for that. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u8	Senator De Poli, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the full text of your speech so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u9	He asked Senator Bottici to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u10	Mr President, as my colleague mentioned a few months ago, we decided on the establishment of the Office for the Assessment of the Impact of Public Policies in the Presidency Council. Evaluating public policies does not mean entering into the substance of a policy to judge or decide whether it should be approved or not. This office serves to understand the real effects of the laws and regulations that the Government and Parliament have resolved or have in anticipation of taking a decision. It is therefore a question of whether the social and economic effects really depend on that specific policy or not. Abroad, especially in the countries of Anglo-Saxon tradition, evaluation is a well-established practice, dating back to the last century. France and Morocco have even foreseen this in their Constitution. For Italy it is a new road and it is not easy. The evaluation, in fact, requires an uncommon effort. It is a set of very complicated techniques that require an effort of learning and deepening. The Senate, after two years of experience with other European and international realities, but above all after two very intense years of preparing its staff, has reached a level of competence in the field of evaluation of public policies very high. In fact, soon the site will be online with some dossiers in which it ranges from the prison issue to fiscal analysis to other topics (I leave you the surprise). It is clear that there is still a long way to go to cover all the areas and sectors that Parliament needs, so that the government's action is effectively controlled by those who have been elected by the citizens. The Senate, however, is already able to walk, together with other prestigious institutions in Europe and in the world, the roads so far unpublished for our country. It should therefore be noted that, thanks to the President and the support of the College of Senators Quaestors, the Administration has succeeded, with humility but also with great determination and - I would like to reiterate - at zero cost, in achieving the objective. A thank you goes to all the staff, who has worked enthusiastically on this innovative project and at certain times even tiring. The objective is for all of us: to assess whether citizens' money has been well spent, to make our laws more effective and not to repeat the mistakes of the past. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Poli and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u13	LATORRE (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you for help and also for clarification. As you know, the Foreign and Defence Committees are about to meet in order to be able to vote in relation to the resolution that we are debating tomorrow in this House and this work will cross with those of this House. We would therefore like to know whether we could be in a position, at a reasonable time, to convene our two Commissions, of course in accordance with the fact that some of the Commission members have to submit agendas on the internal budget. It would be desirable to organise the work in such a way that at about 19-19.30 we can convene our Commissions in a joint form so that we can proceed. We ask you whether this is possible and, if so, to be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u14	In view of this request and the need to have a motion for a resolution by today, because we have to debate it tomorrow and then put it on the agenda, I would be willing to see that the senators who have to intervene in the debate on the internal budget can anticipate their intervention, so that they can then usefully participate in the debate in the Commission on the motion for a resolution. Of course, we are now discussing the internal budget of the Senate and therefore an internal corporis, but later on, the discussion on the issue of trust would not allow parallel activities to be carried out. So the only solution would seem to me to be this. After the members of the Foreign and Defence Commissions have spoken, I would authorize their respective Presidents to convene the Commissions to finalise their work on the resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u17	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr. President, no question. However, I would like to point out that several groups, at the meeting of the Foreign Joint Commissions and the Defense of the Chamber and Senate, asked to have a copy of the letter with which the Libyan Government requests Italy to intervene. It has been said that it would only be made available to Copasir members, starting at 5 p.m. So it is clear that, in the overall assessment of the Groups, knowledge, through its representatives in the Copasir, is a fundamental element. Then I would add that the Commissions can be convened not before 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u18	Absolutely not before 5 p.m. and not before the members of the Foreign and Defence Committees have spoken in the budget debate. These are the two conditions for allowing the Foreign and Defence Commissions to meet.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u21	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in expressing our non-controversies, provided that the Copasir has already been able to assess the situation, we agree, in principle, to make the speeches first, so that we can have time to assess well what has been done to the Copasir in relation to the resolutions on which we are working.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u22	We agree that not before 7 p.m. we will authorize the possibility of convening the Foreign and Defence Commissions. LATORRE (PD). Not before 7:00, but not before the end of the Copasir's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u25	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it seems to me that the path you have indicated is what allows us to work in a certain way. The only thing I did not understand about Mr Fornaro's speech is the reference to the famous letter sent by the Libyan Government to us and therefore to the Copasir. We believe - I spoke to my colleague, Mr Divina, who represents us in the Defence Commission - that it should not be a report on the knowledge of the letter concerning the trust of the representatives of the Groups: there must be a common moment, perhaps a secret moment, with all that can be done within the two Commissions, where someone reports the content of the letter. This is said by a Group which has a qualified representation within the Copasir: it seems to us that this is the best route, that is to say that the sitting of the two Commissions meeting is secreted and that in that forum someone qualified to report on the content of the letter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u26	It seems to me to be a request which can certainly be accepted by the Presidents of the two Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u29	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I understand the need to remain confidential about a particularly important act of the Libyan Government. However, I would like to point out that the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE does not have any representatives within the Copasir; we would therefore be excluded from a knowledge of the content of the letter. I therefore leave it to your discretion to manage this element of discrimination against our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u30	As Senator Volpi suggested, there would be no discrimination at a time when there was someone, a member of the Copasir, reporting in the Commissions meeting, clearly secreting the sitting. It seems to me that through this system you can have knowledge, maintaining secrecy. It is a way of reconciling the two needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u31	I declare the joint debate open. Senator Santangelo is enrolled to speak, who will also explain the agendas of the G15, G28 and G29 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u32	Mr President, I will present three truly sensible agendas. The G15 agenda proposes the abolition of the end-of-term allowance. I believe that this abolition can really make it possible to cut the operating costs of the machine. I would remind you that the amount of the end-of-term allowance is 80% of the gross monthly amount of the allowance, multiplied by the number of years of the actual term of office: we are therefore talking about figures that are not indifferent. I therefore ask the House to vote in favour of this agenda. The G28 agenda fits perfectly with the concept of transparency, because with it we demand that the treatment of senators who have ceased to be in office - we are talking about about EUR 83 million, only for 2017 - be made public. In particular, we call for the list of senators to be made public, as well as the amounts that the senators will receive. Finally, in explaining the G29 agenda, Mr President, I call you a little bit into question, because we are drawing on your communication of March 2013, when this parliamentary term had just begun. Mr President, on that occasion you said - and the 5 Star Movement had listened favourably to what you said - that you would reduce the expenditure available to the Presidency by 50%. This announcement was followed by a concrete fact, identifying a one-off figure of EUR 1.5 million for each year. We therefore call for the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to take all necessary steps to implement this initiative, which I believe is shared by the vast majority of Parliament, so that it is an effective cut that is not the one-off sum of EUR 1.5 million, but exactly 50% of the expenditure available to the Senate President's Cabinet. I believe that Parliament can only speak in favour of the G29 agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Lucidi is enrolled to speak, who will also present the agendas of the G18, G22 and G27 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u33	Mr President, the issues we want to bring to the attention of this House are directly linked to the debate in this House this morning on the vitality and privileges enjoyed by former Members. In this case and in this context, we simply talk about the privileges enjoyed by the former senators, precisely because we are talking about the Senate budget. During today's anti-meridian session, President Zanda, in an absolutely presumptuous manner, contested our request for urgency on the bill for the abolition of vitality, even appealing and bringing for example what happens in the City of Rome. Using a statement similar to that used by Senator Zanda, I would like to give him back pan per focaccia because one of the senators who enjoys the vitality, dear President, is one of your mayors, who has even recently been investigated and placed under house arrest. [[Comments from the PD Group]] The G27 agenda provides for the lifting of the vitalities of those sentencing senators, which is why I believe it is a perfectly sensible proposal. You see, dear Senator Zanda, to understand what is the real need of the country and the needs of the citizens there is no need to make the state spend almost 800 million euros for a totally useless constitutional referendum; there is no need to make hundreds of millions of euros to the palaces of Senate and Chamber to make an electoral law that, according to you, would have copied us all of Europe and that instead we have never applied. To do things in a fair and honest way towards citizens, simply apply... MIRABELLI (PD). What's that got to do with anything? LUCIDES (M5S). Mirabelli, this has something to do with it; if you listened to me, you would understand. MIRABELLI (PD). I'm listening. LUCIDES (M5S). Senator Mirabelli since he stopped writing about "The Unity" is quite restless. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A little common sense would be enough, I said. What, then, is this common sense? First of all, to understand that the EUR 83 million that the Senate budget has earmarked for giving life to the former senators is clearly a figure that cries out revenge because - I would remind you, Mr Zanda, since you care so much about the result of the referendum - only this value is much greater than the savings that you had made us believe that we would have achieved in the run-up to the referendum on 4 December. So that is the only reason why you should agree, because we are going far beyond the savings you had hoped to achieve. Having said that, what do we basically ask with these three agendas, all linked together? In particular, with the G18 we call for the cessation of the provision of life and pensions in favour of senators who have ceased their term of office, including survivors' pensions, providing for the refund of the sum corresponding to the amounts retained as contributions, deducted from the amounts already paid, in the form of a life benefit or pension. On the G22 agenda, we commit the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council to a 50% reduction in the amount of vitalities in favour of senators and to provide that, from the date of approval of the instrument of address, the amount of vitalities in favour of senators who have ceased their term of office, including those of survivors, does not exceed three times the amount of individual minimum annual treatment. Here we could hang up on the speech made this morning by a colleague of Forza Italia on what we can consider a golden pension or not, because honestly at this moment, given the fact that more than 8 million Italian citizens live below the poverty line, do not consider a pension of 3,000-4,000 euros as a golden pension I think it is simply a stylistic exercise: let's not make fun of ourselves. I repeat, in this country we have 8 million people, of whom you are completely disinterested, living below the poverty line. If we are to be that part of society that asks for sacrifices to such a large number of Italians, we should probably be the first to set an example and to show that we are able to do what, among other things, we cannot even call "sacrifices." The last agenda, which I think is the most welcome, at least for what we would expect from your votes, is the G27, which asks to do something extremely simple: first, to give a clean cut and a net stop to all those emoluments, those vitalities and payments that we give to people who have been, for different reasons, affected by convictions or involved in crimes against the public administration. In particular, on the basis of the resolution of the Council of Presidency of 7 May 2015, we ask for changes to be made: for example, the introduction of the crime of office abuse in the number of those whose final sentence prohibits the collection of parliamentary vitality; the cessation of parliamentary vitality for persons sentenced definitively to penalties greater than two years of imprisonment for crimes not manslaughter, consumed or attempted, for which the penalty of imprisonment is provided for not less than four years; the cessation of life automatically and the repeal of Article 1, paragraph 4, concerning the surviving family members of condemned parliamentarians who died before the entry into force of the resolution. That is basically what we are asking for with our agendas. I finish my illustration by making a general consideration and referring again to what Senator Zanda said this morning about the concept of vitality. I repeat, this morning we were talking about the vitality in general, now we are obliged to do so only on those related to the Senate. Dear Senator Zanda, we will probably also be the people of direct democracy and we think that we attach an extremely important value to a click, but there is a fundamental difference between us and you: you continue to be unceasing to access the funding of citizens, so to use the money of citizens to do your interests and your self-referentialities; instead, our clicks are totally free and we do not ask even a penny from Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And that's why we can get out of this palace and walk head-to-head. Our spokesmen can walk around without escort because we have nothing to fear. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u34	Senator Mussini is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G35, G53 and G54. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to set out two agendas, trying to raise the content of this debate a little bit and to focus attention on two aspects which, in my opinion, are important to everyone and in any case to me very dear. The first is a call for greater transparency in the budgets, it was also made last year and approved with agenda the request to provide in the budget the broken down data of the money that is spent to support this which is an institution, which I believe is a duty. This institution fortunately lives and survives despite the people who interpret it, from when it was founded until it has the fortune to survive. It would be important, I believe, for each of us to realize that we are only a transitional interpreter of an institution that has a dignity that, fortunately, prevails over the individual's ability to show a minimum of dignity (sometimes, really a minimum). The issue of money is certainly relevant, but I think it is also important to give out a very clear message. The list of savings that Senator Commissioner De Poli made and the demands, even insistent, of colleagues who preceded me, I believe that they must be affirmed always bearing in mind that there is a content that must be high. Here the theme is not only that of saving change; here the most important theme is to demonstrate, with transparency, how much has been spent, how it has been spent and the result that is obtained with this expenditure. Let me give you an example. Speaking of training and staff updating, I have noticed that this year there is a great increase compared to both the forecast of the past years and the figures spent in recent years. As a teacher, I can only rejoice at the fact that it invests in staff training, especially when the training of staff in the category I am a member of, teachers, is generally done in self-training at no cost. I therefore believe that it is important to show the citizens, declined in detail, the actual contents of this training, in order to give body and dignity to the money that has been spent, without the fear of having to justify every 100, 200, 300 euros of expenditure. I also say this with regard to the tone, which I did not like, of my fellow Members who preceded me, because transparency is not a weapon that is being held by someone and turned against others; transparency must be lived and perceived as a guarantee for everyone, first of all for all those who are part of this institution. No one can be called out or against one another. I believe that transparency is in everyone's interest and is also an important tool for giving dignity to the money we have spent, especially in relation to the reasons for which it has been spent. In fact, even if I save and reduce my spending by 50%, but I spend the money in a perception, which unfortunately the citizens have, of the usefulness of this institution, I can also save a lot, but I will not have achieved what I wanted to achieve. Mr President, I would just like to ask you for two more minutes on a subject that is very close to my heart, which I have seen dealt with on several agendas and which I consider particularly serious and offensive: the so-called change of name. I am a subject who had to change her coat and you know that, Mr President, one day she received a letter that told her that I was no longer a member of the Group with which I had been elected. In the meantime, I would demand that there should be real attention on the part of this institution not so much to the personal case of the person who was expelled, but to the relationship between the Member who was elected and the context in which he was elected. I am lucky, because in fact the 5 Star Movement in my Region has shown to reach, precisely in the electoral competition against those who, like me, had been expelled, the remarkable figure of just over 3%; in some respects, therefore, I even feel confirmed in the struggle for my freedom and freedom of coherence. However, I believe that this institution must take note of the fact that this happens and happens not only because there are people who are thrown out of their group, but also because there may be Members who legitimately do not recognize themselves in the policy that their group is pursuing. For example, if I had been a senator of the world of the school elected in the Democratic Party I could not have recognized myself in any way in how the Democratic Party has carried on the reform of the school and, perhaps, legitimately, I would have rendered a better service to my voters by leaving that Group and going elsewhere and, especially, in the Mixed Group, that in this legislature it has become, in fact, the place that has collected witnesses of coherence, besides those who are accused of changing the coat, going and coming (I don't know, there is also this reality). On one agenda, I would ask the institution to take charge of the phenomenon by finding some solutions, which could also be, for example, the one adopted by the European Parliament, which assumes directly four subjects for each of those who are the representatives, thus ensuring that that individual can have the power to work regardless of any link with his Group, to which, at some point, even for reasons independent of his will, he may not be able or unwilling to belong anymore. I therefore call for a solution to be found to ensure, in essence, the effectiveness of Article 67 of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u36	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak, who will also present the agendas for the G9 and G57 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u37	Mr President, on the G9 agenda, which we have been presenting for four years, it deals with the issue of refunds paid to each senator. We simply wish to recall that, among the various allowances which are paid to him, every senator of the Republic is entitled to reimbursement of expenses for the exercise of his mandate, which is intended to cover the costs of office and of his employees. The total amount of refunds for all senators is 1,400,000 euros per month. The amount is divided between a rate that must be reported to the Senate of the Republic, equal to approximately 2.090 euros per month, and the remainder, equal to another 2.090 euros per month, may not be reported. Therefore, it is very clear and clear what can happen: it makes a part of the expenditure, which above all should be used for parliamentary collaborators and, therefore, also to offer a job to people who want to collaborate in political activity. As is known to all of us, part of the members of this important gathering report by paying the contribution to their belonging party. Not that this - of course - is forbidden, but perhaps it would be more useful to use the resources to have a parliamentary collaborator who supports the work of the parliamentary and not that of the party. As you know, we have completely renounced the money that belonged to the 5 Star Movement, for a figure which overall, considering Chamber of Deputies, Senate and Regional Councils, amounts to about 80 million euros. Well, this money doesn't have to be accounted for. Of course, we are talking about an important track, because it is a total of EUR 700,000 per month. With this agenda, we simply ask that we do what we do. We report in detail all the expenses that we incur on the website "Tirendiconto.it". It is an obligation of transparency towards the citizens, who - as the well-educated people would say - are those who guarantee the exercise of parliamentary activity, while I, who am a mere citizen of the people, say that it is the money that is needed to make the people who do this profession live. They are therefore resources that should serve this purpose, while - as I have already said - they are likely to increase what is needed to make the senator live, in addition to the compensation he already owes. We then ask that the contributions in question be reported on an Internet site - we ask both that of the Senate - so that everyone can verify the expenses that are actually incurred to do something and not to increase the already high salary of the senators. And I call it salary because we always consider ourselves workers to whom money is paid to enable them to carry out their duties. We simply ask to do the following. As you all know, we return the money we take to stimulate the exercise of small and medium-sized enterprises, putting them on a fund on which we have paid more than EUR 21 million. We call for the same thing to be done, namely that there is transparency about how money is spent. With the G57 agenda, then, we call for a 50% reduction in the costs of contributions to cultural foundations, other subjects and third parties, and contributions to the Circle of Palazzo Madama, which are equal to 1,262,500 euros. We think it is correct, first of all, that there is also this transparency and that it is understood to those who are given contributions and then, at a time of contraction of the possibility of spending of citizens, that the money is spent on what they really need: if they serve for the activity of the people who work here, that's fine; if they serve for extra-work activities, but not only of senators but also of the employees of the Senate who are well paid - with all the respect we have for the workers - maybe you could work on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the draft internal budget and the accounts is an important occasion for the life of our institution. First of all, this budget is the last of this XVII legislature and, at the same time, it is the first to be examined after the referendum of 4 December last year confirmed bicameralism as defined by our constituent Fathers. It should be appreciated the careful work of the College of Quaestors, the President, the Administration that has developed in recent years achieving excellent results in the management of expenses, but also having a careful look at the effects that could have come from the definitive approval of the constitutional reform. For the first aspect, I would stress - as Senator De Poli said in his report - how the costs of the Senate, in recent years, have had an extremely important and positive feature. The result is highly positive if one thinks that it has been achieved without any reduction in the level of services provided in the different sectors of the Administration. The President, the College of Quaestors and the Administration have managed the complex functions that exist, taking a look at the possible effects that constitutional reform would have on them. From this point of view, it should be expressed the most keen appreciation for the professional updating seminars open to all employees, regardless of their role, and for having been the leading Senate in the promotion, with the collaboration of prestigious institutions such as the Ca' Foscari University of Venice, the Institute for Evaluation Research on Public Policies in Trento and the Association for the Development of Evaluation and Analysis of Public Policies in Turin, and the Conference of Presidents of Regional Assemblies, a second level master's degree in analysis and evaluation of public policies, the first edition of which ended last June. In this way, too, the Senate has prepared itself with regard to any new tasks that would have been assigned to it, working, at the same time, in the direction of further consolidation on matters of pressing relevance and the preparation of employees, confirming their high standards. As I said before, this is the first budget of the Senate reconfirmed in the constitutional model of 1948 and is therefore an opportunity for an overall reflection leading to the definition of guidelines consistent with that model, as has been done in the past. From a qualitative point of view, positive results have been achieved on the communication and monitoring of sources of information; on the containment, consumption and supply of energy exclusively from renewable sources; on the fight against food waste and IT infrastructure, as mentioned in the report by Senator De Poli. The analysis that I have previously briefly drawn up of the sums entered in the internal budget, on the one hand, shows the commitment of the Senate to continue in the policy of containing expenditure in an economic framework which only now presents some encouraging facts and, on the other hand, gives a concrete response to the recurrent controversy about the costs of this branch of Parliament and, more generally, of the constitutional bodies. However, it is necessary to avoid any logic that addresses the issue of the functioning of the institutions in terms of simple costs. The ancient caste continues to point the inquisitive finger at the costs of representative institutions and it is time to wonder whether what the country must continue to look at are the costs of representative democracy or if, rather, the real objective of that inquisitive index is not the overcoming itself of the representative democracy model provided for by our order. For my part, I continue to be deeply convinced that this model is the only instrument for the realization of democratic principles even in a complex society like ours and that respect for the rules of the game or - as they have also been called - of the "universal procedural" is inescapable. The financial data described above belong to the wealth of quantitative and qualitative results that the President, the Quaestors and the Administration have achieved in this legislature. But the fact that this is the first budget of the Senate after the confirmation of its structure in the referendum last December must lead us to identify the guidelines that - in my opinion - will have to be followed in the future in order to strengthen the role of this branch of Parliament even more. As far as the treatment of senators is concerned, I think I can say that the results of reducing expenditure in this area are significant and, on the other hand, let us not forget that - as the Giovannini Commission made clear years ago - the overall cost of economic treatment of the European Assemblies with the highest GDP is higher than that borne by Italian parliamentarians. The issues relating to the economic treatment of senators must - in my opinion - be dealt with with without prejudice, paying careful attention to distinguish what is privilege from what is merely an expression of prerogatives. Let us not forget that the allowance is a constitutionally provided institution: Article 69 of the Constitution establishes, in fact, the non-free nature of the parliamentary mandate and this provision is the way in which the democratic principle whereby all citizens must have access to elected posts in an equal position, as provided for in Article 51 of the fundamental Charter. Special attention should then be paid to the subject of the employees of the Senate. They are personnel who, at every level, have passed extremely strict competitions, open to all and to whom everyone was free to participate, and who have allowed our institution to secure the best energies among those who year after year looked to the world of work. And a staff called to carry out their duties at the service of the Institution with professionalism, competence, seriousness and dedication, without hours and beyond any predictability, as is usually our parliamentary activity, made up of people, women and men, who are professionally close to us. And this is therefore an opportunity to address a convinced, heartfelt thanks to all the employees. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] It is therefore necessary to take appropriate measures to preserve this heritage of excellence. Last May, the Senate and Chamber Administrations received a mandate from the Senate Presidency Council and the Chamber Presidency Office - as Senator De Poli has pointed out - to sign protocols of understanding concerning the pole of parliamentary documentation; an addition to the library centre, already positively experimented; the parliamentary computer hub; the health services hub; the collaboration for historical archives. The basis has therefore been laid for an ever more complete integration of activities and resources, and I therefore believe that it is appropriate to proceed with determination along the guidelines set out in the protocols. Finally, a central problem for the functioning of our institution is the recruitment of staff. The Administrations of the two branches of Parliament must work to conclude the investigative activity aimed at implementing all the obligations provided for in the agreement establishing the unique role of Parliament's employees, in order to reactivate the leverage of recruitment. In order to achieve this objective, it will also be necessary to define possible common competitive procedures. The activation of the competitive leverage is particularly important at this time, since in recent years there has been a significant decrease in the number of employees of the Senate. This is a fact which must be remedied as soon as possible. I hope that the decisions that will be taken on this subject in the Presidency Council will be in line with the objective of continuing to guarantee professionalism of excellence and not constantly changing the framework of economic treatment that causes disaffection and disaffection. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure stability for those who, participating in a competition for career access to the Senate, have also chosen its legal and economic treatment and cannot subsequently see the acquired rights conculcated; this, on the other hand, in accordance with the guidelines expressed by the Constitutional Court. We always remember that it is our responsibility to assure the Senate, reconfirmed in its structure and its functions, that heritage of knowledge and professionalism constituted by the staff. We cannot think of demolishing what has been achieved by those who have preceded us, but we must ensure continuity in the work of the institution. Whatever the objectives that politics will pursue on the basis of electoral proclamation, there will always have to be an administrative apparatus that allows senators to achieve them in compliance with the procedural rules that they themselves give themselves within the framework of constitutionally sanctioned regulatory autonomy. Hence the importance of that apparatus that deserves all our respect and consideration. Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to renew my thanks to the Quaestor Senators for the difficult work they have done over the years, which has enabled us to achieve important results, and to all the staff, the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretaries-General, the parliamentary assistants, for the work they do every day alongside us with excellent preparation and institutional spirit. For all the reasons I have outlined, I have announced that my Group will vote in favour of the budget documents for our examination. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u40	Senator Castaldi, who will also present the G10 agenda in the course of his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u41	Mr President, the order for the G10 agenda, which is very similar to the G9 agenda presented earlier by my colleague Mr Cioffi, has the aim of deciding that all expenditure incurred with the resources received as reimbursement of expenditure for the exercise of the mandate is subject to systematic and timely monthly reporting. Last year, with similar agendas, my colleague, Senator Buccarella, spoke the following words: This measure would ensure that the term "refund" gives a concrete meaning: the reimbursement is the one that is returned to me once I prove that I have anticipated some sums (this definition recalls the semantic trap of the electoral refunds of the parties, but this is another reasoning). We propose that the total amount of 4,180 euros per month be the subject of subsequent reporting and reimbursement. The G10 agenda is not about populism, but about transparency. The difference from the G9 agenda, as Mr Cioffi explained, is that the Senator will refund the unused part of the expenses. Since we are forward-looking and know that it is difficult to remove even a penny from your pockets, we have provided for another agenda which does not provide for any return. Don't worry. Even if there's money left over, you just have to report it. There is no populism. There is only the will to make all expenses transparent, because we are talking about as much as 2.090 euros, which today are in fact an additional salary in black for every senator. We are simply asking for reporting to ensure that all citizens know what is done with these sums. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u42	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak, and during his speech he will also present the agendas for the G11 and G21 agendas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u43	Mr President, the G11 agenda concerns the elimination of the refundability of the liberal disbursements to the parliamentary groups. I would like, in particular, to explain what it is, to understand us, because it could escape the meaning. It is expected that each senator will give his or her political party a liberal grant, which is part of the senate's compensation for the exercise of his or her mandate. We know, however, that this compensation for the exercise of the mandate, which is given to us by the Senate of the Republic, must be reported to the Senate at least 50%. And the Senate asks for a list of only 50% of these expenses with a specific connotation, in the sense that they are supported for the exercise of its parliamentary mandate. If we think about it, as long as I have expenditure which is to be described as expenditure which I support precisely in order to exercise my parliamentary mandate, it would seem to me to be a rational matter and it is also a matter of course. If, however, I give my political party a liberal dispensation, I am doing something that does not concern the exercise of the mandate. It is my spontaneous and liberal contribution to my political strength and, therefore, it is a personal act that is not part of the exercise of the mandate, that is, of the mandate given by the voters. Mr President, what we want is something rational. We simply want to say that - in our view - this liberal act is not an expenditure on the exercise of the mandate conferred by the voters, but simply a personal act. Therefore, it must be excluded from the scope of the expenses that the Senate rightly demands to report. In our view, it would not fall within the scope - as we have seen before - of the expenditure incurred in the exercise of the mandate conferred by the citizen, because it is a liberal dispensation. With the G11 agenda, therefore, we simply ask that the sums paid by the senators to political parties, both as a liberal provision and as a consideration or reimbursement of the provision of services or services received, be removed from the items of expenditure eligible for reimbursement of expenditure for the exercise of the mandate. Mr President, in order to strengthen what I said earlier, if my fellow Members consider it appropriate, I can assess the very last part, the part relating to the consideration or reimbursement of the provision of services or services, but I would like to leave the elimination of liberal provision. The G21 agenda concerns the application of the contributory method to parliamentary vitality. Of course, it is a matter that you considered not to be urgent today, but we consider it very urgent, and that is why we proposed it, but you probably think about something else. Then don't come and tell me that the competition bill is fundamental, because it has been before Parliament for three years and you have shot it and, therefore, it certainly wasn't important. On this agenda we are asking that the method of contribution to all those sums be applied. In fact, it has already been clarified several times that vitalities do not form a pension, but they are something supplementary that has absolutely no such connotation. We, therefore, simply ask that the vitality be linked to a method that this House wanted to put on the skin of subordinate employees who are outside these walls. We therefore call for the application of the Dini law, and therefore the contributory method, and the Fornero law, with the application of the retirement age at sixty-seven, sixty-eight or seventy years. As it is outside this House, so it must also be within it. Both agendas are therefore fairly rational.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u44	Senator Moronese is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agenda G13. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u45	Mr President, it has been four years for us in this House on important measures, those which could really help the citizens, to say that there is no economic willingness to approve them: there is the spending review, there is the expenditure to be harmonised, there is to be respected what Europe is asking of us. So you usually say when you don't have adequate motivations. In your opinion, there is not enough resources in our country to offer concrete support to the Forces of Order. I am thinking - for example - of firefighters and we have seen in recent weeks, indeed in recent months, how they fight against continuous and contemporary fires throughout the national territory without adequate means and human resources. There are not enough economic resources to secure the school buildings that collapse and are forced to close because not according to the norm, as demonstrated by what is happening in the Province of Caserta, in financial failure also thanks to the delicious Delrio law, and that has seen the closure of several schools already. However, we must thank God that there have been no victims, given the frequent collapses of school roofs. There are no adequate economic resources for the reclamation of polluted areas that endanger the health of citizens; moreover, such pollution is often caused by companies which have, as it were, been granted permits too easily, thanks also to some of your local political contact points and too complacent bodies. There are no resources for the maintenance of the artistic and archaeological goods that envy us all over the world and that here we let rot as if they were waste goods without any value. Always in your opinion, there are no resources - by chance - for our citizenship income, the only economic maneuver possible to get millions of Italians out of the condition of absolute poverty they are in. And yet, I wonder why, you found the money for the banks. Last week you simply gave the banks EUR 17 billion, obviously to the detriment of Italian savers. But, of course, what do you want Parliament to care that desperate citizens have lost their life savings? The important thing is to help the banks, because then it will come back to you useful and we know how. What about the caste? Oh, for the caste the money is there and there must always be. In these years you have built a world apart, made of privileges that ordinary citizens do not even imagine and do not even know everyone. But something has changed in this 17th legislature: we have entered Parliament, we, what you call populists, anti-politics and an endless series of other names. You point us out with contemptuousness to try to take hold of public opinion and thus hide the shameful little kingdom that you created here. We have succeeded in this parliamentary term, although we were and are in opposition, in putting you in a position, in fact to force you to speak and to carry out concrete actions for a real cut in the costs of politics. And we've begun to smooth out some of the privileges that you care about so much. Last week, after almost a full parliamentary term - four years and four months, to be exact - and thanks to the pressures of the 5 Star Movement, a law was passed at first reading by the House abolishing the vitality and providing for the pension recalculation for parliamentarians on a contributory basis. The measure has now arrived here in the Senate and we have seen just today how it has made you happy and how you have reacted, since you have rejected the request for a statement of urgency of the measure, preferring to postpone to September in order to try to remove as much as possible from you this fausto event. But on this point, I would like to point out that what President Zanda said this morning really has some tragicomics. He asked why we had now, a few hours after the suspension of our work, tabled a request for a statement of urgency. The answer is simple: the measure has now been incardinated in the Commission. I'd like to remind Senator Zanda that they're the experts of these smart guys, not us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Has Zanda forgotten that you wanted and forced the House to frame the electoral law on 20 December 2014 at 7:39 a.m., before the Christmas break? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It reads, among other things, declared unconstitutional, like almost all those wanted by this majority. However, be resigned: September is near. But it's not the only thing we've put an end to. I am referring, for example, to gold rents. Do you remember? We spent 30 million euros on these and we blew them up. There was even insurance for parliamentarians for insect stings and that was why 350,000 euros were spent in the House of Deputies. But how? To the Italians for health care you want to charge everything now, even to those who have the minimum pension, and for you had even provided an insurance for the bites of insects? But do you realize the absurdity of this thing? It's embarrassing even to bring her back in a voice. And you a little shame when you want to show it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's not talk about the blue cars and the many other privileges that you created ad hoc. But there is still so much to do, because this Parliament is a bottomless pit, made of privileges. Then we come specifically to the Senate, and I address the citizens who follow us from home. Do you know that in the Senate budget - for example - there is an item of expenditure, the 01.17.01 (Mobility Services), for as many as 400,000 euros per year, intended for the reimbursement of air and rail tickets of senators who have ceased their mandate for no more than ten years? Yes, you have heard well: privileges remain even when you are no longer a member of parliament in office. As a 5 Star Movement we believe that this is unacceptable and incomprehensible. Why is it that the State and its citizens must bear the travel expenses of a person who no longer performs a public service, but rather has ceased to be in office? Haven't the money you've already received during your term of office been enough? You can call us whatever you want, but meanwhile - and the Italians know - we are the only ones - and I repeat: the only ones - to have renounced 42 million electoral refunds, while you pocket them all. Secondly, we are the only ones who have halved our salaries and also returned surplus diaries, putting them at the service of citizens through micro-credit. Thanks to the 22 million euros collected - and I am just talking about the refunds of us Members - over 6,100 new companies have been created, for about 14,000 new jobs. Does that seem small to you? Maybe. But the question is, what have you done? Surely these are things we want to become the rule and they will certainly become the rule when we are in the government. So get ready. I shall conclude, Mr President. Well, with this agenda we continue in our action of zeroing the privileges of the caste, which have no foundation and reason to exist. For this reason, we call for the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to commit themselves to removing from the Senate budget, from the 18th legislature, all expenses relating to the reimbursement of the air and rail tickets of the senators who ceased their term of office. So, colleagues, put a hand on your conscience and try to be reasonable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u46	Senator Comaroli is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G2, G3, G4, G5, G7, G19, G16, G17, G20, G24, G25, G26, G30, G37, G42, G46, G48, G49, G52, G55, G56, G58, G63, G64, G66, G67, G68 and G69. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to make just one agenda, although, together with my group's senators, I have tabled a number of them on a number of subjects, ranging from the salaries of Members to the issue of vitality. However, I would like to ask the House's attention on the G68 agenda, which deals with a specific problem and concerns the function of all of us Members of Parliament, who are called upon to verify the consistency of the rules we are examining with public finance. When we table amendments to try to improve the text of a draft law, as provided for in the Constitution under the famous Article 81 of the Constitution, we need to check that there is financial cover. Mr President, we often cannot make a detailed assessment of the situation of the various chapters of expenditure in the state budget, in order to understand how much the commitments and payments amount to. There are many computer equipment, but there is a problem of access to databases: I am referring in particular to the datamart of the State Accounting Office. And this is not just about us parliamentarians, because very often it is a problem that is also found by the Senate Budget Service. We often find ourselves in the Commission to take note and to trust what the Government tells us. Many times, even in the Budget Committee, when it comes to verification of the coverage, we have to stick to what the Government answers to us. That's why I'm asking senators. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I therefore call for a concrete interest in resolving this problem, which I also referred to last year. However, the problem has remained and, therefore, this year I wanted to highlight with greater specificity what it consists of. I really ask for attention to be paid to this issue, which in our view is very important, because we need to look not only at the Senate budget, on which - as I have heard from the report - Senators Quaestors are doing an excellent job, but also at the state budget, because that is our function. [[Applause from Senators Colucci, Divine and Puglia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u48	It is registered to speak Senator Blundo, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G23 and G47. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work of rationalising the running costs of the Senate of the Republic is not only urgent, but is very appropriate from the point of view of the economy. It is necessary in order to try to bring the citizens closer to the parliamentary institution, in harmony with the economic trend of the country for nothing exalting. According to official data from ISTAT, unemployment is 11.1% in June: a percentage that, although slightly falling, is still high and suffers from the very high number of unemployed, especially in the age group between 25 and 34 years. Even more worrying are the data, always from Istat, on absolute poverty in our country in 2016: 1,619,000 families living in absolute poverty. Behind these figures there are people, families, especially those with children, who daily, in a thousand difficulties, have to think of arriving at the end of the month, without even succeeding in many cases. Article 69 of the Constitution provides that Members of Parliament shall receive an allowance established by law. Nevertheless, through the adoption of the internal regulations of the Chambers, a special social security scheme has also been established for Members and senators. In particular, the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 289 of 1994 specified how the evolution that, over time, characterized this particular form of pension also led to the formation of the vitality allowance as an institution which, in its positive discipline, has partially transposed aspects related to the pension model and, in part, typical profiles of the private insurance system. Moreover, - the Court points out - there is neither an identity of nature nor a legal system between the life benefit nor the pension treatment, since, unlike the ordinary pension, the life benefit is linked to a charge allowance enjoyed in connection with the exercise of a public mandate: compensation which, in its presuppositions and purposes, has always taken on in the constitutional and ordinary rules distinct from those of remuneration related to the public employment relationship. In other words, the parliamentary mandate, not being a public job, but as the expression of a public mission representing the nation, cannot and must not be assisted by a welfare pension scheme in addition to the constitutionally necessary allowance. Finally, with regard to the chapter on the treatment of senators who ceased their term of office, the budget estimates an expenditure of EUR 83 million for 2017, which is perfectly unchanged from the previous year. Faced with these figures, and above all with regard to the current crisis I mentioned earlier, it is quite appropriate that the senators also contribute to the containment of Senate spending. It is true that the House of Deputies adopted last week the bill recalculating the vitality, but the fact that today we rejected the need to examine it urgently, and since the legislature is coming to an end and it is very difficult for the proposal to become a full-fledged law, it is necessary, on the contrary, to make a contribution of solidarity on pensions of a high amount that the Constitutional Court has also recognised as compatible with the constitutional dictation. Therefore, this contribution could be activated by a resolution of the Presidency Council, and in particular of the College of Quaestors, subjecting the vital allowances paid to senators and their family members to an equalization contribution of 20% for gross amounts up to EUR 90,000 and 30% for the part exceeding the amounts of EUR 90,000. Mr President, can I also explain the agenda for the opening of the Presidency's proceedings? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, senator, I'll give you a few minutes. The publicity of parliamentary work is a constitutional principle of fundamental importance and the need to transform these institutions into real glass buildings is increasingly unavoidable. In this direction the Senate of the Republic is committed to ensuring the publicity of the works. To date, however, no provision has been made for advertising on the website of the work of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, whose content therefore remains inaccessible to citizens. During the examination of the internal budget of the Senate of the year 2016, an agenda was approved to commit the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors for their respective competences to study the criteria for the publication of resolutions of general interest adopted by the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors during the legislature. The G47 agenda is therefore intended to commit the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, each for their respective competences, to publish the official reports of their meetings on the website of the Senate of the Republic within ten days of their holding. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Crimi, who will also present the G36 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u50	Mr President, I will be brief, also to make up for the timing of the speech by my colleague. I will explain the G36 agenda, which deals with a subject which has already been discussed by other Members also in other forums: I am referring to the theme of the parliamentary groups, namely the proliferation of groups which do not correspond to the real political formation that was presented at the elections, and the continuous movement of senators from one parliamentary group to another. In this legislature, until the date of deposit of this document, 184 MPs have changed their membership of the House and 131 in the Senate: these are actually excessive numbers. The proposal that we are putting forward, in addition to finding regulatory disincentives on which the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is already working, is to try to put economic disincentives in place as well. The economic disincentive proposed, within the limits of this agenda and the responsibilities of the Presidency Council, is not to compute in the calculation of the contribution paid to the Parliamentary Group any senators who may have been added because they have moved from one Group to another, so as to discourage the underlying motivations that may exist, of course guaranteeing structures, premises and all the material resources necessary to carry out the position of senator. I would like to join and express my appreciation for the next G37 agenda, at the first signature of my colleague, Mr Comaroli, which provides that some of those resources go to the group of origin anyway, because very often this situation means that groups that have made budgetary commitments with employees, therefore with human resources, find themselves in a shortage and can no longer guarantee the continuation of consolidated working relationships. This is the kind of economic disincentive that we propose; there would be others, but it is not the responsibility of the Presidency Council, so we will deal with them elsewhere. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u51	Senator Scibona, who will also present the G38 agenda during his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u52	Mr President, the G38 agenda deals with a well-known subject, as is the case with most of the other agendas. To be precise, it concerns the request to centralise the contractualisation of parliamentary collaborators. In money, this means ensuring that the Senate institution manages internally the recruitment of all parliamentary collaborators, just as it does for the collaborators of the Presidency Council, the College of Quaestors and so on. It would have significant positive impacts. We have heard before, both by the President of the 5th Commission and by the College of Quaestors, a whole series of figures on the savings that have been obtained over the years through changes and improvements in regulations and expenditure. It would be very simple to implement what we are proposing, because, in fact, it is already happening for the College of Quaestors and for the Commissions, and it would certainly lead to considerable economic savings. There would also be a re-evaluation of the professional figures of parliamentary collaborators that the vast majority of colleagues have taken on. The relative resources would thus be managed directly by the Senate, would come to silence all the evil voices that say that, then, the senators hire the collaborators with minor figures or maybe paying them in black and would have a revaluation of these professional figures. The same thing already happens in the European Parliament and in the vast majority of the Regional Councils. This request can only be accepted, and I see no reason why it should always be repeated, unless there are reasons why it is better not to make it clear here because it would be ugly. I would hope, therefore, that the agenda of the G38 would be accepted and that the College of Quaestors would do everything possible as soon as possible to ensure that the recruitment of collaborators is centralized and directly charged to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u53	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Luigi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u54	Mr President, the budgets are always full of signals, obviously from the date of submission. On this subject I think I discover this evening hot water: it has already been said in years past, more or less far away, and other senators and other senators have highlighted the great delay in the presentation, not so much of the statement, but of the budget, which "enters" in the exercise of competence for seven months, thus remaining, more or less, five months, including August, at the end of the year. I do not discuss its legitimacy, because there is also a decree by the President of the Senate that authorizes the provisional exercise, but I think it is not appropriate and it is not elegant to accumulate such an impressive delay, considering that we act with a cash accounting instrument. It is true that the accounts of the public administration are subject - I say, unfortunately - to other rules compared to those of the private ones, but a company of industrial services that presented a budget to more than half of the exercise would certainly be punished by someone: the shareholder, the assembly of the members, the consumers, the customers. There is, however, a point of merit which I am most interested in expressing and for which I have asked for the floor this evening. In the meantime, I would like to thank the College of Quaestors and, of course, the Presidency for the work they have done in these four and a half years. I would like to thank them for the quality of the work they have done and for the way in which they have worked, from economic choices to logistical ones, to interventions in this House, in a not easy legislature, in which new groups have broken down and formed. It is, therefore, a work carried out with extreme seriousness, which I want to testify to, and for which I want to thank, carried out also with an objective particularly felt in this historical season, that is, the reduction of costs. The accompanying report highlights this lower expenditure, which has been around €190 million since 2013. The spending of the Senate, therefore, has followed a decreasing trend for years. Mr. President, there was probably some fat. There have been economies of scale on non-productive sides. Economics have been achieved by rationalising the organizational structure, but the question - this is the reason for my intervention - which I put to the House and, of course, to whom will the future budgets be managed is as follows: is there a limit point in the fall? Will the next President of the Senate and the next College of Quaestors (colleagues Quaestors, I hope that you will be confirmed in your role) continue to contract spending with rather significant cuts? I cannot tell you whether, in the anti-politics season, public opinion has well grasped the data reported by the quaestor senators, such as the reduction of 188 million euros in five years, the cost of the Senate, equal to 0.059 percent of state spending, the decrease of staff in ten years of more than 40%, the relationship between senators' allowances and resources, which in seventeen years has gone from 19 to 10 percent. Of course, in public institutions also count the image, the signals and the examples, but a company that does poor maintenance to its plants, does not make investments and cuts on staff, not implementing turnover, conquers or loses the reference market? I didn't just take the example of a company and its cost centers. There are substantial parts of Palazzo Madama - I stop here not to mention other palaces - worn out and exploitable. A necessary restructuring must be carried out, with reminders, patches, pieces: the decorum of an institution is also linked to how this presents itself. I'm gonna finish. In the staff area there are substantial savings, which have been brought, not as an example, but as a virtuous fact. We all recognize the staff of this institution's professionalism, commitment and dedication, but if we dig deep we realize that we are at the limit, perhaps even further, in some of the services of this House and of the Commission, as well as in the administrative services. The turnover block also alters the quality of the product. You make laws here, you don't produce fruit juices. In order to remain always to this example of juices, the decline of a company is noticed immediately, because on the market that product no longer sells. Our decline, on the other hand, is always slow - progressive, but slow - and is not seen at the moment. We, however, especially after the referendum has confirmed the bicameral system, must think that this company, which lives on the minds of the women and men who work in it, must be qualified, strengthened and improved precisely from the point of view of the staff. Mr President, thank you for the time and availability you have given me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Buccarella, who will present the G50 agenda during his speech, is a member of the House. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u55	Mr President, in the places where the interpretation and application of the codified rules takes place every day - these are the classrooms of national courts and courts, places which you too, Mr President, know and remember - the parties and operators have access and availability, as well as the rules to be applied, including previous ones, to jurisprudence and practice, which are now collected in digitised databases. The purpose of the G50 agenda is to make public the previous Members of Parliament referring to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and to their different interpretations, based on previous application practices. It is well known that in Parliament's work the value of practice and of the previous one is of primary and priority importance, which sometimes comes to empty the written rule of law. In our view, it is therefore appropriate to make fully transparent to all senators, as well as to what we could call the parliamentary community, i.e. the parliamentary groups and their collaborators, and also to scholars of parliamentary law, the various factual interpretations of the Rules of Procedure through their publication. It is a question that measures the democratic nature of our parliamentary system, in order to avoid the use, and possible abuse, of the enormous power of the former held only by the President of this House. This power, which is absolutely legitimate, derives from the fact that it has all the precedents and practices with absolute immediacy. Transparency must be a fundamental value of this House and of our Rules of Procedure. Its knowledge and applicability must therefore be accessible to all. This is all the more so in the light of the probable new case law that may develop when, hopefully, the Council for the Rules of Procedure dismisses a new text of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate with amendments and therefore it will be even more important to have the publicity and publicity of the interpretative practice of the Rules of Procedure as of now. This is already the case today, and perhaps it will be even more important in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u56	Senator Petraglia is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G39, G40 and G41. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u57	Mr President, the budget numbers presented by the College of Quaestors actually merely confirm, both in the final and in the budget, the work that the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council have done in its entirety over the past few years, geared to rationalizing expenditure, trying to eliminate waste and reduce the general costs of the Senate without losing its functionality. The numbers are obviously positive, but we should try to read the contents underlying these data, even assuming that we are at a totally different stage from the previous one. Last December 4th, as other colleagues recalled, Italian citizens rejected the constitutional reform promoted by the Renzi Government, which also provided for the abolition - in reality a false narrative - of this institution. It has been said that with the abolition of the Senate our country would have enormous savings and we would solve all the problems. Fortunately, the citizens rejected the referendum and once again - and I am glad to say - they are continuing their efforts to rationalise public resources in order to avoid, above all, waste. It is therefore up to us, through the numbers, to consolidate a democratic institution, fundamental for this country, which in the course of its long history, when it has been possible and even in this legislature despite the continuous recourse to trust, has carried out important legislative work. A job that comes not only from the commitment of us senators and political forces, but also from the commitment of the many people, of the many workers and workers who are engaged with passion, professionalism and competence, and often beyond their functions. We are at the last budget of this parliamentary term and we cannot miss the opportunity to thank everyone and everyone, but we also have a duty to make commitments. Few, not many, but real commitments. And then we can not fail to recognize that the slimming care of the staff, partly due to the retirements, that has allowed in ten years to pass from 1,098 employees to 651, has been accompanied also by forms of outsourcing of important services, from the technical services of the votes, to the services of concierge, to the services of cleaning, bar and canteen (and certainly I forget many others). Not only are there no data confirming that we have saved through externalisations - and I would like it not only to be an economic evaluation, but also an assessment of costs and benefits - but we have certainly helped to increase precarious and insecure work. The Senate of the Republic cannot be the place where outsourcing processes risk becoming practice or where precariousness persists. That is why we have tabled an agenda which commits the Presidency Council to progressively re-internalising all services, with a view to direct management that ensures cost savings and rationalisation of services through the stabilisation of all workers present, in any capacity, in the various services of the Senate, including by using recruitment tools already provided for in the public administration. We call on the Presidency and the College of Quaestors to consider, in parallel with the call for a public call for competition, the possibility of using the provisions on stabilisation in favour of historical precarious persons within the Palace, such as contract staff and the famous Resolution 58 of 1993, on the assumption of the high professionalism expressed by all of them and the need to improve the functioning of the constitutional bodies. This institution must set an example and cannot be the protagonist of the growth again precarious, also because we are talking about workers and workers with at least twenty years of service. The commitment that we should therefore make is to ensure the stabilisation of the staff indicated in that resolution before the end of the term of office. These commitments would make it possible to heal a vulnus that has been dragging for years and whose origins have even been lost. For this reason the Senate needs to continue its journey on a solid basis and with the support of all the professionals present, which of course we thank all: all very important figures. I would like to take this opportunity, precisely because this is the last budget that this legislature will have to examine, in order to thank them, because they have allowed us to fulfil our role. They are all people and workers to be thanked for their daily work at our disposal and from whom, in recent years, we have learned a lot. I would like to take this opportunity to announce our vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u58	Senator Lezzi is enrolled to speak, who will also present the agenda of the G60 during her speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u59	Mr President, the G60 agenda, which I would like to ask for its approval, is perfectly in line with the debate that has taken place in this House today, especially with President Zanda's speech. President Zanda has finally recognized the role of this House, which must not be that of a simple letterhead. In fact, I was a little confused during these four and a half years of mandate because in fact, very often, we did just the government's paperweights, whether it was that of Renzi, that of Letta or that of Gentiloni Silveri. We have done nothing but ratify. We have also prevented any form of change and discussion of the last decree-law, the one that gave 17 billion to Banca Intesa. And this act of empire came even from the bank itself, and not even from the government. So, finally, hearing a little dignity from this House has made us very pleased. It is also right that the provisions can be deepened and that senators and senators can have the right time to deepen all the laws and provisions that this House adopts. I hope that this will also be the case, for example, for the state's account, which has been incardinated in the Commission today. We've got a month of vacation time. Too bad that the state's statement is made up of several tomes and thousands of pages that should be punctually analysed by the senators, before being approved or rejected. Instead, the Law on Vitalities consists of a few articles and few concepts, but for those it took an infinitely longer time; but that's okay. The G60 agenda, for which I request approval, is committed to publishing the list of persons who have benefited during this parliamentary term from donations and from the senators who have ordered them to do so. These contributions and subsidies amount to exactly €1,262,500. Well, it is strange that, in view of so much punctuality, fairness and respect for the institutions that come from the benches of this House at the time when the abolition of vitalities is required, more than one million euros is given to the appanage - so it is said - of some senators, sums that then these dispense and give to who knows who, without colleagues having any weight, but, even more serious, without citizens knowing who this money goes to. In fact, we must point out that this figure of over one million euro does not come from the coffers of the Democratic Party, of Forza Italia or from all those forces that today have prevented the urgent calendarization of the abolition of vitalities, but it comes exactly from the pockets of the citizens. So I am sure that there will be no opposition to the adoption of this agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u60	The joint debate is closed. I call on Senator Commissioner Malan to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank all those who took part in the debate, both by setting out the agenda and by intervening on other subjects. I thank them for their contribution to this debate, because I believe that everyone has made an important contribution to the work we are doing during the year. Of course, I agree - and I do not extend because the De Poli commissioner has already done so authoritatively - with thanks to all those who contribute to the good performance of the Senate. I shall now turn to the agenda. On the G2 agenda, at the first signing of Senator Comaroli, I am in favour of the reformulation, because we share the requests contained in it, but since they are already activities that are being carried out, namely the integration of several services and activities with the Chamber of Deputies, we propose the following rewording of the device: after the words "single role," the following part should be replaced with: "to continue in the process of functional integration started," not to reduce the scope of the device, but to expand it, because the various aspects are mentioned below. In the last part, I then propose that we keep the sentence from the words 'guaranteeing an efficient level of conduct', up to 'Parliamentary bodies', and delete, at the last line, the phrase 'checking the need to retrain staff', because continuing training is done regularly and this wording may not be appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u62	I would ask Senator Comaroli if she accepts the proposal for the rewording of the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u63	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, ma'am. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. With regard to agendas G3, G4 and G5, I am in favour, subject to rewording of what is required in all three devices, in the following sense: In the light of the functional integrations with the Administration of the Chamber, which are defined with the protocols submitted to the official resolution of the Board of President at the meeting of 10 May 2017, further functional or organizational reorganisation interventions that are suitable to increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the support activities carried out by the Administration will be considered. Here, too, reformulation serves to bring these agendas within the scope of the work already carried out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Comaroli welcomes the reformulation. The opinion was therefore in favour of the G3, G4 and G5 agendas. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. The G6 agenda calls for a re-determined parliamentary allowance and other ancillary allowances. The opinion was opposed. Already there has been a reduction over the years of 30% and, by referring to some of the interventions that have been carried out, it takes a point of drop because this 30% reduction is added to a series of reductions of various ancillary performances that are close to 50% and, therefore, the opinion is contrary. The G7 agenda is accepted, while on the G8 agenda the opinion is against: there have already been reductions in these allowances, particularly at the beginning of this parliamentary term, but already in the past; we believe that it is logical that it should be traced back to a normal principle which exists in any administration for which special tasks correspond with recognition. The G9 and G10 agendas basically call for general reporting. I would remind you that the reporting of an important part of these refunds has recently been introduced, and I would also point out that there is no European Union Parliament with such reporting. There are, on the other hand, flat-rate figures, which correspond - and we will talk about this when we face the staff voice - other figures paid by the relative Chamber for staff in different cases, but with much higher amounts than ours: the European Parliament, instead of our 4,000 euros which also include other types of expenses, comes to 24,000 euros; the German Bundestag provides for 19,000 euros; the Senate and the French Chamber is over 10,000 euros, whereas here we are instead to 4,000 euros, which includes many other items. The opinion is therefore against. On the G11 agenda, the opinion is opposed because it is clear that in the exercise of the parliamentary mandate there is cooperation with political actors, with parties and with movements in which the majority of parliamentary work is expressed - I believe there are no exceptions in this House -. Therefore, it is perfectly normal that the way in which parliamentarians contribute, often decisively to the lives of political actors who are recognized - as I recall - by the Constitution, is one of the most specific items for which funds are provided for the repayment of the mandate. The opinion is therefore against it. On the agenda, Mr G12, I am against this. There have already been reductions on this too. On the agenda, the fact is mentioned that telephone charges have been reduced over the years due to price developments in the telecommunications market, but it is also true that the other part of overhead costs, represented by travels within the college or the whole country (since under the Constitution we represent the whole country) has increased particularly and in particular the parking charges at airports have skyrocketed. It is therefore perfectly normal for that item, although very small, to remain in the amounts currently determined. The G13 agenda refers to an item which, following a resolution of 2009, has been reduced by 80% because of the reduction in amounts, i.e. because it has linked this type of reimbursement not to the number of trips, but to the expenditure actually incurred, and is limited over time. Therefore, that a former senator may be reimbursed for expenses in order to make his contribution to participating in conferences or activities resulting from the work of a Member of Parliament, I consider it to be a normal forecast and to be maintained, in the light of the fact that there has been an 80% reduction on this item. The G14 agenda raises an important issue. In other parliaments the discipline governing the issue has been the result of many years of work and regulatory changes. In this case it is above all a regulatory issue, because it cannot be something that Senators Quaestors can decide. In other words, I am referring to the proposal to consider ways of regulating gifts and benefits received by virtue of the office held. I would propose the following rewording of the device: "Study how to regulate gifts and utilities received by virtue of the office covered," bearing in mind that the bulk of the work should be done in the regulatory framework. Over the last few months there has been work on the Rules of Procedure, and this may be an aspect, but I am sure that it cannot be assumed by the Quaestors that such an incisive initiative can be taken. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Should reformulation therefore be seen as an invitation to assess the most appropriate procedures for the same assets to be used for institutional purposes? Is it accepted? Mr Capelletti (M5S). Yeah, I'll take it. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. For the rest, in my opinion, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should be asked. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't think so. For the time being, reformulation is accepted. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. On the G15 agenda, I am opposed to this, partly because the end-of-term cheque is not in the Senate budget, but in a separate fund. These are sums set aside in relation to the allowance that senators receive, so they are their property just like the similar treatments that there are for employees. I would point out that this is an institution also present in parliaments of countries where there is no end-of-relationship treatment for workers, because it has a particular value. Agendas G18, G19, G16, G17, G20, G21, G22, G23, G24 and G25 include specific measures to reduce, with retroactive value, the issue of vitality. As has already been the case in recent years, I believe that these agendas are inadmissible because they fall within areas that have already been decided by the Constitutional Court that cannot be addressed or, at least, cannot be dealt with in this way. In addition, as we have seen this morning, the issue is largely dealt with by a bill that is being examined by the Senate. I therefore believe that these agendas, in analogy with what has already been done in recent years, both in the Senate and in the other branch of Parliament, are inadmissible. As far as the G26 agenda is concerned, I would like to accept it with a slight rewording, which is to delete the words 'adoption' in the undertaking. This results in the following period: "to assess, within the sphere of autonomous determination reserved to them by the Rules of the Senate, further initiatives that contribute to aligning the social treatment of senators with the standards of representatives of other European parliaments." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli, do you accept this reformulation? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. The G27 agenda proposes to return to the pensions of Members of Parliament who have been convicted of certain crimes. It is - as the agenda itself says - a very recent decision of the Presidency Council (7 May 2015), which took place after a wide-ranging debate and an in-depth study. I do not think it is appropriate to refer to the same subject, since it has already been the subject of a recent debate, and I am therefore against it. As regards the G28 agenda, the list of MEPs is already available on the Senate website. As far as amounts are concerned, privacy issues are not published. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] We know that all newspapers do this, but they do it on the basis of a simple calculation: knowing what the rules are, you quickly calculate how much you perceive who did one, two, three mandates and so on. I am against the G29 agenda. On this there has already been a major reduction since the beginning of the parliamentary term, in an organic and definitive way. President Grasso renounces to use a very important part of these endowments. I also believe that it is not logical that the President of the Italian Senate, who is also Vice President of the Republic in all respects, should have a smaller budget than any senator in the United States. I therefore object to this agenda. I also object to the G30 agenda. These are also sums of budget items which have already been reduced by 30% for the decision of the Presidency Council. In particular, allowances for former Presidents of the Senate have been reduced in size and duration (these are also recent decisions). For the same reason, I am opposed to the G31 agenda because it insists on the same subject. With reference to the G32 agenda, I am in favour of the last point of the commitment, where it is said that the supplementary health care system is fully funded exclusively by the members, without burdening the Senate's budget. I am in favour of this. This is already the case: there has always been a slight surplus of this fund throughout this parliamentary term, which is fed by the payments of the senators. The opinion is opposed to the first part of the G32 agenda, because supplementary health care is based on the solidarity principle of the accession of all senators. It is possible to obtain the result that even the agenda G32 demands, namely not to burden the Senate budget, just because there is this obligation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u64	Is the opinion against the first part of the G32 agenda? MALAN, Senator Commissioner. Yes, Mr. President. The opinion was opposed to the first part of the scheme and was only in favour of the last period, which began with the words: "that the supplementary health care system should be fully funded." PRESIDENT. - The debate is Does Senator Cappelletti agree to reformulate the agenda in the sense indicated by Senator Questor? Mr Capelletti (M5S). No, Mr. President. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. If the agenda remains that way, the opinion is inevitably against it. On the G34 agenda, which also concerns a recent item, the opinion was opposed. Agendas G35, G36 and G37 refer in different ways to the question of senators who changed Group or political formation during their term of office. In order to address the issue raised by these agendas, it would clearly be necessary to speak on the Rules of Procedure, so I would ask for them to be withdrawn, because we cannot speak on this matter without speaking on the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not make any difference between the Groups or between the Mixed Group and the other Groups, to this end. I therefore call for these agendas to be withdrawn, because although I understand this issue from a number of points of view, I think that it can only be resolved by a statement on the Rules of Procedure, because otherwise, without speaking on the Rules of Procedure, all the Groups are equal from every point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept the invitation to retreat, Senator Mussini?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u65	Mr President, I understand the speech made by Senator Malan and I can withdraw the agenda, but bearing in mind the idea that has emerged several times in the debate and that takes for example other Parliaments, such as the European Parliament, which does not provide for the contribution to the Staff Groups, but the direct payment - which is more transparent, clear and correct - of the collaborators, who are concerned with the work of the legislative office or with the follow-up of Members of the European Parliament in their work. I believe that this principle could be accepted by the quaestor senators, who could take on a different concept of contributions, not so much or not just for the expenses of the mandate, but for all those resources which are paid as contributions to the groups, but which are in the hands of the activities of each individual senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u66	Senator Mussini, you must not explain the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u67	There is an invitation to withdraw the agenda or the opinion is against it. You're asking for a reformulation. MUSSINI (Mixed). I don't know if the quaestor senators are willing to reformulate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept the invitation to retreat, Senator Mussini? MUSSINI (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do the presenters accept the call for the withdrawal of the G36 agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u68	We do not withdraw it, Mr President, because Rule 16 of the Rules of Procedure, which is probably referred to by Senator Commissioner Malan, states that the Groups must be provided with an economic contribution, structures and resources and speaks of numerical consistency, but does not identify the time when it should be calculated. Today it is a resolution of the Presidency Council or of the College of Quaestors that, as senators change Group, they take away the dowry of 60,000 or 56,000 euros - I don't remember the precise amount - in the new Group, and you intervene it proportionally also during the year, so depending on how long the senator has been in one Group or another. Since the Rules of Procedure do not say anything about this, we could also intervene exclusively by a resolution of the Presidency Council and not necessarily by regulation. Maybe we could also speak on the Rules of Procedure. We would hope so, but in other places. This is, however, an indication, and that is why we do not withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u69	So, you confirm that you're against it, Senator Malan? MALAN, Senator Commissioner. That's right, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the agenda G37?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u70	Yes, Mr President, I am withdrawing the agenda because we really believe that this issue is being dealt with in the reform of the Rules of Procedure. It is a serious problem: at first the Group makes recruitments and failing the contribution of Members who have left the Group, it really creates a prejudice for the payment of the workers' salaries that the Group assumed at the beginning of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u71	The G38 agenda is accepted as a recommendation because the subject is very complex: it involves adaptation by the whole structure; details should be studied, but as a recommendation it is certainly acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u72	Senator Cappelletti, do you accept the agenda as a recommendation? Mr Capelletti (M5S). Yes, ma'am, all right. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. As regards agendas G39, G40 and G41, in different ways they address the problem of various forms of precariousness. The G39 can be accepted only in the first part, i.e. in the commitment to the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, for their respective competences, to assess, in parallel with the call for a public call for competition, the possibility of resorting to the provisions on stabilisation, adding the words: "as from existing rules". There are, in fact, rules on stabilisation. With regard to the remaining part of the G39 device and the G40 and G41 agendas, we cannot take them into consideration because they contradict the principle that the Senate should enter into competition, well understanding the issues raised. I would also point out that there are still safeguards for some of these cases, in particular the famous former resolution No 58 of 1993. Unfortunately, we cannot go any further because of the principle of the competition which also concerns the Senate, but it is also a general principle of public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u73	Senator Petraglia, has a small modification been proposed, does she accept it? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). All right, but what about the other two agendas? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They are considered inadmissible; then the Presidency will also decide on the stabilisation of staff employed by the parliamentary groups, former Resolution 58 of 1993.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u74	On the G43 agenda, it is stated that posts are currently assigned in a general way without substantially meeting the criteria of good administration, so the opposite opinion is based on the wording of the text itself. I am in favour of the G42 agenda. Of course, this system, which is already being applied, must be integrated together with the House, in the light of the recent decisions taken. I am opposed to the G44 agenda, because it is contrary to the current Senate system, which provides for a leading figure. I am opposed to the G45 agenda, bearing in mind that the holders of these posts already need to be reconfirmed within three years; there is a rotation, but it cannot be rigid as it may happen - in truth, very rarely - in other branches of the public administration, as specializations are necessary in some cases and the continuity of the administration requires, also given the very small number of staff, to intervene in this direction. I am in favour of the G46 agenda, of course by taking the necessary steps to implement it. I propose the rewording of agendas G47 and G48. The mechanism would therefore become the following: "Invites, for their respective competences, the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to study criteria for the publication of deliberations of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors of General Interest." This is something to be implemented so that there is timely reporting and consultation of these decisions, which of course must safeguard privacy. The first part of the G47 agenda, which even provides for the publication of full reports, cannot, of course, be accepted. I would remind you that there are bodies, such as the Council of Ministers, the Regional, Municipal and other Councils, which do not provide for this report, because it is very similar to that of the Presidency Council. While the publication of the general provisions, accepting the reformulation that I have just read, would have a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do the presenters accept the rewording of the agendas G47 and G48? Mr Capelletti (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, and I withdraw the G49 agenda. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. The G50 and G51 agendas address the issue of the so-called maximum. The issue has already been examined several times. The maximum doesn't actually exist, so we, all the more so as Quaestors, certainly can't make the commitment to publish something that isn't there. And if there were, it should be regulated, because it becomes a sort of very important accessory to the Rules of Procedure, the compilation of which would become challenging. Therefore, we cannot give a favourable opinion on the two agendas, which should, moreover, probably be addressed to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I hear just invitations to brevity, and I apologize for going out of business. On the agenda, Mr G52 I am in favour of it; on the agenda, Mr G53 I am in favour of it as a recommendation to the parties compatible with Senate law, because most of the rules referred to in this agenda are not used by the Senate: there are no external directors appointed, as is provided for in Article 15 cited above. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini, the agenda G53 is accepted as a recommendation for the parties compatible with the Senate's order. Okay? MUSSINI (Mixed). Yes, Mr. President. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. The G54 agenda lists items on which less than half of the appropriations are spent, but on special occasions they could make use of them, and I therefore take the opposite view: this is a budget, not a point-by-point audit. I call for the withdrawal, otherwise I am against, of the G55 agenda. In this case too, there has been a sharp reduction in these expenditures, which are currently very small compared to the overall budget. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli, will you pick it up? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. On the agenda G56 I propose a rewording: "to evaluate further interventions, after those already carried out, of rationalization in the planning of events at the Senate halls." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the reformulation? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. On the agendas of the day G61, G57, G58, G59 and G60, bearing in mind that some of these items are just zero, such as the famous contribution to the circle of Palazzo Madama, the opinion is contrary: these voices are already reduced or at present used in an extremely limited way. On the G63 and G64 agendas, the opinion is in favour: this is something that is already being done and it is right to continue in this direction. I am also in favour of the G62 agenda. The G66 agenda was adopted as a recommendation to verify the material feasibility of this initiative. On the agenda, Mr G67 I am in favour, as well as on the agenda, Mr G68: let us also take up the particular request on this point, which really represents one of the fundamental aspects of the Senate's life, namely the control of the entire expenditure of the State, which is three thousand times greater than those of the Senate itself. I also support the G69 and G100 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u75	I call the rapporteur. TONINI, rapporteur. Mr President, I give up my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In the light of the opinions expressed, the agendas for G18, G19, G16, G17, G20, G21, G22, G23, G24, G25, G40 and G41 are hereby declared inadmissible. The agendas of the G50 and G51 are declared inadmissible because they are unrelated to the subject of the debate. Having been accepted, the agendas of the G2 (text 2), G3 (text 2), G4 (text 2) and G5 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G6 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, while waiting for the Rules of Procedure to be amended on electronic voting, we are once again calling for a simultaneous vote to be taken by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We consider the request valid for all agendas. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the G7 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G8 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G9 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G11 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u78	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, the G11 agenda provides for the removal from the items of expenditure eligible for reimbursement of expenditure for the exercise of the mandate of sums paid by senators to political parties, either as a liberal provision or as a consideration or reimbursement of the provision of services and services received. Let us not say that these amounts should not be given, but that the 2,090 euros reported should not be accounted for. I also tell you why. If I report 2,090 euros of contribution to the party, I do not need to report the remaining ones. Therefore, if I use the systems even a little borderline to pay employees or make contracts, there is no possibility to do the checks. The contributions given to the parties let us keep them in the share of 2.090 euros not to be reported and the 2.090 euros reported let us reserve them in particular to the advice and the hirings, on which perhaps, sometimes, a sample check can be done. I add a further detail, which may be forgotten by many. These liberal payments are then included in the single model to have the further deduction of 19% from taxes. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Yes, because there is no reason not to, because the law provides. If I have paid liberal contributions to the party, these are the subject of deduction in the single model. So, not only do you take 4,180 euros, but also the 19% deduction from taxes in the single model. Mr President, believe me, it is so and I challenge anyone to see the statements of deductions and deductions. The tax returns are public on the site. Go check it out and see if it doesn't. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Don't get nervous, if you don't...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u79	Let us say that this is a faculty and we do not know who makes use of it and who does not.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u80	CRIMI (M5S). Mr. President, it's public. These are data published on the Senate website. I invite anyone to check it out. The term of office is also used to obtain the deduction. We'll check that out. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u83	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, transparency is never negative. It is always a good thing, even for health expenses, perhaps, because I know that there are some Members of Parliament, even of my former party, who count twice the health costs that lead to deduction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u84	Let us stick to the subject of the agenda, which is not health expenditure. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G11 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G12, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G13, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the agenda for the G14 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G15 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas from G18 to G25 are inadmissible. Having been accepted, the agenda for the G26 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G27, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G28 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G29, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G30 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u87	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Senators Quaestors have said that expenditure has been reduced by 30%, but the request on this agenda is explicit, and it is not to reduce it, but to cancel any allocation to the former Presidents of the Senate. I am sorry for the current President of the Senate, who may not be able to recognise these powers, but I do not think he has that kind of expectation, on the contrary, he has shown in this sense a certain sobriety that other of his predecessors have not demonstrated. Perhaps it would be appropriate to eliminate this situation whereby former Presidents of the Senate still have powers today and we do not understand how they can benefit from financial, material and human resources at their disposal, even if they are reduced. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u88	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G30 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G31 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G32 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u91	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, Senator Malan had expressed his opposition to the first part of the G32 agenda and to the second part of the agenda. I would like to ask whether it is possible to proceed to the separate vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u92	The reformulation was not accepted by Senator Cappelletti, therefore it was reiterated by the senators You have the opposite opinion on the whole agenda, and that is why I put it to the vote with the opposite opinion. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G32, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G33 agenda has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G34 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G35 agenda has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G36 presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u95	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I am sorry that you closed the vote because I could not vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can now declare your vote. MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would have made an explanation of vote which was against, because, while Senator Comaroli's agenda rightly made a distinction between those who moved within the Senate on their own initiative and those who did so in a non-voluntary way, I, reminding Senator Crimi that if he wanted to avoid losing all the money he said he had lost his Group, it was enough that he did not throw out a few dozen people. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, De Pin and Fucksia.]] If anything, I would have voted in favour if compensation had been provided for those who were thrown out. So my vote would have been against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u96	The G37 agenda has been withdrawn. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G38 agenda, which was adopted as a recommendation, will not be put to the vote. Having been accepted, the agenda for G39 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Agendas G40 and G41 are inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G43, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the G42 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G44 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G45 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted, the agendas of the day G46, G47 (text 2) and G48 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. The G49 agenda has been withdrawn. The G50 and G51 agendas are unacceptable. Having been accepted, the G52 agenda will not be put to the vote. As the presenters do not insist on the vote, the G53 agenda, which was adopted as a recommendation for the parties compatible with Senate law, will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G54 agenda, presented by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G55 agenda has been withdrawn. Having been accepted, the G56 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G61, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G57, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G58 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G59 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G60 agenda, presented by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the agendas of the G63, G64 and G62 have been accepted, they will not be put to the vote. The G65 agenda has been withdrawn. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G66 agenda, which was adopted as a recommendation, will not be put to the vote. As the agendas of the G67, G68, G69 and G100 have been accepted, they will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u99	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Presidency Council and the Quaestors for the quality of the budget they have presented to this House today: it is clear that they have worked on such a complex act with constancy, capacity and seriousness, guiding the document towards the constant contraction of expenditure. On the others, there are some figures that are decisive in this respect and offer a clear and precise reading: 188 are the millions of euros saved, divided between the 108 million less resources requested by the State and the 80 million more savings that will be returned to the State. The Senate has cut overall spending by acting on several fronts, implementing measures to limit spending in every area, from exits for senators to those for staff, to those for the operation of the administrative machine. In order to examine only the first of the chapters just mentioned, what concerns us most closely, it should be noted that the relationship between the expenditure on senators' allowances and the Senate budget has gone from 2001 to 2017 from 19 percent to 10 percent and therefore is virtually halved. And since the figures are not questionable, 37,2 million savings that we find in the budget that we are examining are a concrete fact that we must take into account in our assessment. 19.22 (Following DAVICO). Just as I would like to highlight another figure among those that were explained to us just now: the relationship between the spending of the Senate and the state budget today continues to fall (from 0.083 in 2007 to 0.059 in 2016; in practice, for every thousand euros spent by the State, Palazzo Madama spends 59 cents). Of course, as happens in every organization, both private and public, what really detects and ends up being the variable directly, is how much the expense is justified by productivity. Beyond the rhetoric, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, without the subject of denial, that on this point the Italian citizens will have to make the assessment on our behalf. I say this because I want to express a wish, which I share with all the members of my Group, the Freedom Federation. We would strongly like a positive message from the Senate for all Italians, outside this prestigious Palace, that the Italians wanted - and the signal was strong and clear - to continue his work and preserve his fundamental institutional role. So the strategy followed, of decisive containment of expenditure, collected a message that was coming from citizenship, also strong and clear. This Chamber launches a relaxing message and helps to build a bridge that brings it closer to the Italians, as Senator Questore De Poli recalled during his speech. At a time when the crisis is still attacking and prevaricating our fellow citizens - and I am thinking above all of those who live in poverty - it is essential for the institutions to play their part in reducing expenditure and in the consequent better use of resources. It is clear that this challenge the Senate is already trying to win and with important numbers, which crystallize the fact that an institution that focuses on innovation and modernisation, just like a diligent company, can improve production processes and optimize resources. From these simple considerations comes another: we here, more than anyone else, have a duty to be ever more transparent, to open the Palace to the citizens. The "new" Palazzo Madama, the Senate in its new image, the one that we are all committed to giving, has the ambition to become an ever lighter, ever more dynamic institution, capable of rapid shots forward, in full harmony with the country it represents. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, it is also necessary for each of us - and the Senate in its own community - to commit more and more to ensuring maximum transparency on revenue and expenditure, demonstrating that the use of resources takes place in the most prudent and correct way possible. The same effort must certainly also be required in the management of resources within the Groups and the services - let us call them - pro quota that individual senators can dispose of for their own offices, perhaps avoiding those unnecessary duplications that have been discussed even during the debate. In particular, it is necessary to ensure that democracy also places as much as possible within the parliamentary groups and that there is therefore no possibility of discriminating against dissident positions. In other words, it seems to me that the iron law of the oligarchies, too often, still lives in some groups and even more in the parties. But this, ladies and gentlemen, I realize, is a chapter that we will open and deepen in the appropriate fora and in particular when discussing and updating the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which is becoming increasingly urgent to streamline and make this House more effective. This of the review of the 2017 budget, together with the 2016 report, is also an opportunity to draw the sums over five years of the legislature, years during which, day after day, we have witnessed and participated in important changes, often on small aspects that do not increase the numbers, but that win their importance when they gradually approach the Italians to the work of the Senate. It is worth recalling here the considerable progress made on the usability of the sittings of the House and the Commissions. Thanks to the potential, some still to be deployed, of the web, the Palace is within reach of clicks and democratic participation is exponentially favored and how strong the desire for participation is always demonstrated by the 23 million views in this legislature, increasingly transparent and accessible to all. Finally, I come to a chapter that has changed our habits as well, has speeded up everyone's work and has contributed to the significant decrease in environmental impact: the dematerialization of parliamentary acts, which has reduced circulation by 75% and opened the way to access all acts in electronic format, easily reproduced and widely shared. It is a small change, which is a sign of the times. With the hope that the work that has been done - and I am beginning to conclude - can continue with the same determination, energy and incisiveness in the next parliamentary term, we trust, ladies and gentlemen, in the sharing and cooperation of all the political forces represented in this House. Meanwhile, on behalf of all the members, I am pleased to announce the favorable vote on behalf of the Federation of Freedom Group to the account of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 and to the draft internal budget for the financial year 2017. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u102	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to thank the Quaestors, because it is a pleasure to see savings in the 2016 accounts, despite the fact that there has been a trend towards reducing expenditure since the beginning of the parliamentary term of up to EUR 188 million. Although you have already cut, rationalised and optimized, even in 2016 you have achieved savings of about 3.8 million. This, however, must not prejudice the continuing to do even better, for a fundamental reason: we must be the example, on so many things. We must set an example to the citizens, to the other institutions and to everything that is public; that is why we are under the magnifying glass of the citizens and, many times, also on issues that may seem incomprehensible to us there is a reason for the citizen. It is therefore up to all of us and in particular to you Quaestors, who are our delegates to do this, to optimize 100% all the expenses of this House. It is also a pleasure to see the incidence of the senator's cost down from 20 percent to 10 percent of the total Senate spending. I am sorry, therefore, to your credit for the fact that 91.03 per cent is compulsory current expenditure. Despite everything - it's a theme these days - we see how senators are at the center many times of criticism, to which we have to be careful, because we can't respond with phrases like: You're not right. You're not right. We must try to make it clear to the citizens that they are out of the reasonableness of everything we do in this branch of Parliament. There are, as I said, still some things to be improved. It is true that, for example, you have achieved a 75% reduction in the production of copies and therefore in the consumption of paper, but many times these reductions come up against real problems, such as those of the Budget Commission, which, in order to fulfil its task, needs paper copies. Then there is the statement that Senator Questre De Poli used when he spoke of the senate green. It's right, it's nice that the Senate is green, in fact we start to see some boxes for separate collection; unfortunately, even from this point of view we are far from making a separate collection in the true sense of the term. For all these reasons, referring also to Senator Tonini's report on what was once the senate's expenses and how they are decreasing, the Group of which I am a member, while wishing to express a positive opinion, will abstain. However, I would like to point out that this is a technical abstention in the true sense of the word, because we have not really participated in achieving these results. In the folds of the budget there are many issues that unfortunately we have not been able to deepen, so the abstention vote is not to be referred to the fact that in the Senate that abstention is equivalent to voting against, but it is precisely a vote of technical abstention, giving confidence to Senators Quaestors and thanking them for the work they have done. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u105	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, undoubtedly from the data presented by Mr De Poli in a medium-term perspective, we cannot fail to see an improvement, that is, a reduction in costs, but there are some aspects of a tendency that I believe should be highlighted. Meanwhile, on a total of 492 million euros of expenditure, in 2016 operating expenses - as President Tonini reminded us - have reached 55.1 percent, while those of a social security nature have risen to 44.9 percent; the latter in 2014, so only three years ago, were equal to 41.4 and those of operating to 58.6 percent. In other words, there is a tendency to lower operating costs compared to the total and to increase those of a social security nature. This is very evident in the data relating to the pension treatment of the staff, which go from 119.9 million in 2014 to 142.23 in 2016, while in contrast (there is a very interesting table that outlines this decrease of the staff) from 2014 to 2016 the expenditure for the staff has dropped by as much as 20 million euros, an extremely significant figure, but somehow replaced by the increased expenditure on pensions. Clearly, in perspective, as has been mentioned, there is a theme of rationalization of expenditure that must be lived and seen certainly in the direction of creation and strengthening, even more so after the outcome of the constitutional referendum of 4 December, of common services between the House and the Senate. There are multiple services... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I see that even the colleagues of the Five Star Movement... shoulders...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u106	We are trying to allow the speaker to finish his speech. We've given up a little, Senator Fornaro, on the bon ton of not giving up, unfortunately. FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). There is a subject of common services, which I believe is extremely important (different ones could be mentioned); this is a direction that must be cultivated and I believe that this should be a mandate that we leave in some way to the next legislature. Just as there is the theme of the single role, on which significant progress has been made. I would like to conclude by talking about another issue. Precisely because, as I have just said, the data are positive in a medium-term perspective, I believe that, precisely in the logic of leaving a mandate to those who will come in the next legislature, on the subject of spending review - I am addressing the Quaestors - I believe that more can be done. I'll try to explain. There is a fundamental doubt in the structuring, in particular, of the forecast budget. For those who have had, in their professional life (as happened to me), a way to compare themselves with company budgets and therefore with budgetary logics, I have to say that the numbers, as they were built in the forecast balance sheet, have left me very perplexed. This is basically a historical expense floating year by year. In other words, the optimizations and savings that are obtained each year are not consolidated, but the savings are somehow transferred year after year. I try to explain myself with two chapters at random, for short exposure, so I don't want those responsible. Take, for example, Chapter 1.12 (Studies and Research): 1,678,000 in 2014, 1,950,000 in 2015, 1,847,000 in 2016 (significant improvement). One would expect a forecast budget for 2017 with a figure of 1,847,000 or, in an improvement logic, lower. Instead, the budget or forecast expenditure for 2017 is 3,164,000, which is exactly the 2016 budget. So, compared with a budget of 3,164,000, only 1,847,000 were spent on it, so a great saving has been made. In this case we have a decreasing figure. Let's take chapter 1.13 (Institutional communications): 4.633,000 in 2014, 3.376,000 in 2015 (significant decrease), 3.997,000 in 2016 (dating back). Here, too, we would expect a forecast budget for 2017 for this chapter around EUR 4 million; instead, it is exactly the same as for 2016: 6.220,000. If I compare the 2016 spending (3,997.000) with the forecast budget I have a clear improvement, but, if compared with the previous year, vice versa, I have an extremely significant growth. I tried, with the numbers, to explain what seems to me to be a central element, especially to make the spending review structural. Here the roads are two: either the forecast budgets are constructed taking into account the developments of the previous year or this flotation of historical expenditure leads in some cases to fail to realize the inefficiencies within these chapters. The other choice, which can be read in any business book, is that of the zero-based budget, i.e. remotivating each year the expenses of each chapter. This is the real way, if we want to make significant savings and make the spending review structural. Otherwise, this game of savings and this way of building forecast budgets actually prevents you from controlling and rewarding, in some cases, service managers who make a budget policy. In other words, entrusting to a manager who spent the previous year 1,847.00 euros, a budget of 3,164,000 euros, is like not entrusting to him anything. In business terms this is a non-sense. Despite these comments, which are more than perspective and in some way are a kind of message put in the bottle for the next legislature, the Group of the European Democratic and Progressive Movement will vote in favour of the Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u107	[[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u110	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make a premise. It is our Group's belief that there are still significant and broad margins for the reduction of expenditure in the budget and therefore of the budget that the Senate receives from the State. We want to draw the House's attention here to three issues, which we believe to be particularly important, for which the 5 Star Movement has been fighting for years, but to which this House and the Presidency Council have not yet responded. (Brusio). Madam President, I would like to ask you, if possible, to have silence on the part of those who before me asked for respect and silence from colleagues. AIROLA (M5S). Fornaro! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fornaro, return the courtesy you requested for yourself. Mr Capelletti (M5S). Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, too, to my colleague. The first issue I would like to put to the attention is once again the vitality of the former senators. These are the same vitalities that you voted against this morning, not to miss a few days off or perhaps because they are your creation, from which you find it difficult to free yourself and to break away. Well, since 2013, the 5 Star Movement has tried with several proposals to achieve the elimination of this totally unacceptable privilege by the vast majority of Italian citizens. Already many years before the creation of the bill on the redetermination of vitality with the contributory method, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the 5 Star Movement in the Senate, aware of the fact that the regulation of vitality needs - or rather would need - a resolution of the Presidency Council, has proposed several solutions, ranging from the suppression tout court, to the application of a contribution of solidarity, until the recalculation of vitality with the contributory method. All these proposals have not been met in this House and have been declared inadmissible. The second important question, which is symptomatic of the lack of transparency in this institution, is the failure of the senators to report on the reimbursement of expenditure, which they receive monthly for the exercise of the mandate of parliamentarians. It should be remembered that reimbursements of expenditure are exempt from taxation, as my colleague mentioned earlier, in accordance with Article 52 of the single text on income taxes. Well, we believe that the timely reporting of expenses and the return to the Administration of what has not been reported - and therefore not spent - is necessary for ethical reasons, before politics, also because in this way we would obtain the result of bringing citizens back to the institutions. However, all our proposals to this effect, even today, have been rejected by this House. Finally, the third question I want to put to you concerns the Senate cash service of the Republic and the internal door, which has been operated by the BNL since 2003. The Convention with BNL expired in 2009 and was first extended annually. Then, in November 2011, by resolution of the Presidency Council, the Administration was authorised to extend the relationship with BNL for the time strictly necessary to conclude the public evidence procedure for the assignment of the service and for the completion of the relevant convention. Well, six years have passed since that resolution and still the Administration has not been able to complete the process for the custody in concession of the cash service and for the management of the internal door. I note that an agenda presented by our Group has been accepted: this could at last be the key to the problem. However, it has been six years: in the face of efficiency! For all these reasons, again this year we have proposed several agendas which, once again, the Democratic Party and the majority have decided to reject. I'd like to remember a few. You said 'no', not to the complete abolition of the vitality of Members of Parliament, as we would have liked, but to rules such as the reduction of the vitality, the application of the contributory method (what is basically the text of the law) and the cessation of the vitality of the condemned. These are declared inadmissible agendas. You have not even accepted the publication of the amounts paid to the recipients of vitality: questions of privacy are raised, but there is a public interest that must be protected. The G23 agenda is particularly interesting: it was declared inadmissible, but this identical agenda, when the internal budget was examined in 2015 - as we are doing today - was declared admissible. The same agenda in 2016, then, was actually declared inadmissible; in 2017 it was declared inadmissible, in 2018 it may be declared admissible again. So what are the criteria for whether an agenda is admissible or not? The G23 agenda provided for a contribution of solidarity for the lives of Members of Parliament: this is as much as EUR 83 million in the budget expenditure chapter. Should the senators, once they have ceased their term of office, also contribute to the containment of the Senate's spending? I think so. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has already admitted the constitutionality of this contribution of solidarity; yet, the agenda which proposed it and which, I repeat, is declared admissible or not to alternate years, cannot be voted on on this occasion. We asked for the abolition of the end of the term cheque: we have already rejected it, because we believe it is a privilege that politics can give up to give a message to the country, a country where there are more than 8 million poor. It would have been a nice message, but in this case you said "no" too. We have asked for the reduction of the allowance and the reporting, we ask for it every year. We have proposed setting a ceiling on the allowance of EUR 5.000 gross: we already do so, dedicating the excess amount to the State, which flows into a fund that goes to finance micro-credit and which has created more than 4,000 jobs. We asked for the diary to be commensurate with the actual days of presence, so that if a senator is always absent he will not perceive the diary. You said "no" to this, too. We asked for half the flat-rate expenses: this would also have been a good signal to send to the country. And then, the reporting of expenditure, that is, that unreported expenditure should be returned: it is an ethical issue before it is political. We have asked for the abolition of the office allowance. Of course, additional allowances for that senator who has an allowance because he plays this role but is also Vice President or President of the Commission. That is why, Mr President, we have already given up all these supplementary duties; I do not understand why the Senate is resisting and opposed to not considering these things, which are all in all small gestures but which would tell our citizens a lot about the desire to really mean a reduction in the costs of politics and, above all, of politicians. We have asked for the reporting of expenditure for the exercise of the mandate: it is a question of transparency. You told us no. I'm gonna finish. We asked for a 20% reduction in contributions to the Groups, but you said no. We have asked for the publication of precedents, and we do not understand the reason for so much confidentiality behind the secrecy of this collection of documents, which would have been very useful for the transparency of the work of this House. We asked for economic measures to counter parliamentary transformation by taking action on the portfolio, but you said no. We have called for the abolition of travel expenses of former senators, who have been reduced, but continue to weigh 400,000 euros on the Senate budget. These are expenditures which we would like to do without, since they are reimbursements of expenses of former senators and are therefore no longer members of this House. For all these reasons, I declare the 5 Star Movement voting against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u113	MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, the contents of this explanation of vote are those of the speeches made in this House by Senator Colucci and myself, in which we stressed and appreciated President Tonini's opening remarks. We have approved the report, the statement and the budget presented by Senators Quaestors. We reiterate that good work has been done with fairness and transparency. We posed the problem of investments, especially after the Italian people re-proposed the Senate as the High Chamber of our Republic, and therefore the need, in order not to decline, to invest more in human and material resources. For these reasons, the People's-Centres Group for Europe will vote in favour. [[Applause from Senators Colucci and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u116	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine myself to a few words, because the day is still long. I would like to make a few comments, the first of which concerns the fact that the climate that you breathe today, compared to that of a year ago, when we approved the 2016 report and forecast, is a different climate, which determines a living Senate, confirmed by the vote of the citizens, so it puts us in a different perspective than what we have breathed in the past years. I would like to take up a point made by Senator Commissioner De Poli. A simpler, faster, more efficient Senate: this is the goal I think we must all share, in relation to our role of being transparent, a glass house for citizens. I would like to highlight the consistency of the budget with the stated objective of programme containment of expenditure, which is very easily apparent from the accounts. For seven years all budgets have been preceded by a minus sign: this is also a very important fact that gives an immediate, concrete and evident response to the anti-politics and the attempt, these months and years, to always throw a little' of disdo over the institutions. The Senate weighs 180 million less on citizens' shoulders: it is an important fact that testifies to everyone's commitment. How did we do that? We have rationalised the expenditure of administrative activity; we have rationalised everything that could be done. But what I would like to highlight in these figures is that there is no one-off trend, no bonus, but the structural achievement of favourable budgetary targets. Of course, 91 percent of current expenditure bears witness to the incompatibility of certain items. I would, however, like to point out to those who make demagogy their banner that politics certainly has a cost, but, in my opinion, anti-politics costs much, much more. [[Applause from Senators Carraro and Rizzotti]] I want to respond to the criticism that this Senate shows, in reality, its ability to contain spending, to work well, to rationalize, to pool resources with the offices of the House, managing to give that service to the citizens who are called democracy. Seventy years ago many of us were not there and can only have the testimony of the fruitage of those who also gave their lives so that they could be here to speak. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there is certainly a continuous process of improving the accounts, which has been undertaken in this parliamentary term, and the least expenditure has taken on significant and important figures. It is important to stress - as I said at the beginning - the transparency of the accounts, which shows the will to do things right. That is why we will vote in favour of both the budget and the budget estimates, thanking the College of Senators Quaestors, who have done so much in recent years and who now enjoys the fruit of the work we all deserve, and certainly the Senate Presidency Council and the Administrative Offices. But the opportunity is also to thank the employees of the Senate and the Groups, who every day allow us to do our job and who must be absolutely thanked. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u119	DEL BARBA (PD). Madam President, Senators and Senators, today's debate on the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for 2016 and the draft internal budget for 2017 was, as usual, a moment of appreciable confrontation, in which technical aspects, important and sensitive, could be unraveled, to the truth also touching some inaccuracies, such as the one that my colleague Senator Crimi reported on liberal payments and tax returns. I would just like to point out that there is no accumulation of these aspects, as the possible liberal disbursements should be correctly indicated net of any deductions. (at 7.57 p.m.) (Beep of the Barba). After all, Senator Crimi, I am not surprised that you are not an expert on party budgets, because - as we know - your budget does not exist. [[Comments of Senator Buccarella]] CRIMI (M5S). Go look at the documentation. DEL BARBA (PD). However, this shows that when an institution discusses, as we have done today and as you have been able to do - I do not think it is a problem to respond to inaccuracies - and a budget is approved, not only a formal act is carried out, but also a real political confrontation and the role of the institution and of Parliament is valued. Today we have all emphasized the valuable work of the Quaestors, of which we are proud for the results achieved, which allows our institution to place itself with the important result of achieving significant cuts, but which have not failed the quality of the services provided. It seems to me very important that this kind of example be given at the present time in the country. It is true what President Tonini said: you can spend less by giving better services anyway. It is possible to do so thanks to technologies, thanks to the commitment of those who manage the budgets, thanks to synergies and certainly thanks to the innovation of the processes. However, it would not be possible to do so if there were no high professionalism of the staff involved. I think it is right, then, to point out that, alongside each issue, each cut, there is the desire to adapt and improve first of all the staff and certainly also the senators and the College of Quaestors. I believe that there is a great deal in the data - it has been reported by many colleagues - both the net savings achieved, and the percentage that the Senate's spending today represents in relation to total public expenditure, which is 0.06%. As Senator Quester recalled, it is 59 cents for every 1,000 euros of public spending, compared to the more than 70 cents of a few years ago, when we started. These results must be emphasised with pride and appreciation, children - let us remember - of that turning point that was given in 2012 with the famous agenda G100, which brought the Democratic Party and which this Senate wanted to reiterate in the following years, in particular with the agendas G1 of 2013 and 2014. These agendas not only reaffirmed the line you have taken, which we could sum up with the word efficiency, but also invited us to do more, not to stop at the result of the numbers and to achieve the result of excellence and quality. This challenge is still ahead of us and it is still possible. While the challenge of filing probably touched its possible levels, that of improving services is still implementable and improved. I am referring in particular to the possibility of unifying many of the Chamber and Senate services, as we are beginning to do, in particular for the study service, as well as for computer, technical, accounting, press review and international relations services. It is also a question - why not - of meeting the challenge of the single power station for tenders and contracts. The buildings could also be made more usable and usable by the synergy between the Chamber and the Senate. In the field there are still factors for improvement and the challenges ahead, but it is right to congratulate all colleagues on the numerical aspects already highlighted. I am beginning to conclude by pointing out that transparency is one of the things we can improve on. I am thinking - for example - of making all the elements of the budget publicly available in real time on our website, possibly accompanied by as many details as possible, even in the annual phase of analysis. Those outlined are only some of the possible interventions to view and improve the functioning of the Senate and, more generally, of the parliamentary institutions. This is an extremely necessary field of action, taking into account the many efforts and sacrifices that the whole of the national community has been called upon to make in recent years. The College of Quaestors, also on the basis of the determinations that will take place in the Senate Assembly, will have to formulate in the coming months the proposals that illustrate the path and the initiatives to continue the process of overall reorganization of our parliamentary institutions. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to our parliamentary collaborators. This item is not directly part of the Senate budget, because - as we know - the relationship with the collaborators is managed through refunds to the senators. It is certainly in the interest of the institution, however, that the relationship with parliamentary collaborators continues to improve, on the basis of what began this year with the revision of contracts concluded. At this point, I think it is appropriate to make known also those average data that allow to make an analysis of this important sector and - why not - perhaps also consider the possibility that the paying agency and manager of administrative practices can be the Administration itself, without removing anything from the direct relationship, which is of course between senator and collaborator. In conclusion, having mentioned all the elements of success of our institution, I can clearly express the support of the Democratic Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u120	On my personal behalf and sure to interpret the sentiments of all the senators, I want to thank the College of Quaestors, nominally the quaestors De Poli, Malan and Bottici and their collaborators, who not only managed the services and funds, but also proposed the competences of this year's budget. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretaries-General and all their collaborators, who contribute to the success of this Administration. We shall now proceed to the vote on the documents. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 (Doc. VIII, No 9). The Senate approves. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2017 (Doc. VIII, No 10). The Senate approves.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u121	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2085-B, already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting, the rapporteur, Mr Marino Luigi, carried out the oral report and the representative of the Government put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of the bill in our examination, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. 20.09 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u122	Madam President, in the few minutes I would like to highlight a few passages on this which we consider to be an important measure, which should essentially promote competition in our country and, therefore, bring benefits to the pockets of consumers, our citizens. In fact, however, tomorrow we will go to dismiss an omnibus measure, which has gone back and forth from the House to the Senate and which in all the passages has seen the insertion of everything and more, but in a particular way of the things that we absolutely cannot share. First of all, there is a twist in the installation of this measure, because there is the obvious lack of will to protect... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u123	Colleagues, please lower your voice and leave the Chamber, because otherwise we cannot hold the debate and, given the time, we should be operational. Colleagues who chat in the hemicycle are asked to flow. Please, Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u124	Madam President, this is a measure that will end with so many twists because, contrary to what I said earlier, that it should have or should have protected and brought benefits into the pockets of our fellow citizens, it seems rather to want to protect organized interests or monopolies. I would like to concentrate the few minutes on a point that is particularly close to my heart: the energy market, but also that of energy produced. I remind myself that on 30 June 2019 the so-called "most protective" service will be abolished, which concerns - for those who listen to us - the issue of electricity bills. One thing is certain: we are for the liberalisation of the market. But it is also certain that we will deliver to the Italians a more salty bill, and especially because there is no information. The government hasn't made any information and it won't. Citizens do not know that they will be able to manage their managers more liberally. And nothing has been done in this direction. We would have liked - and we also recommended it in the various passages of the text between the House and the Senate - the possibility of protecting the taxpayer through a possible safeguard service that went towards the citizens. You have taken measures with regard to - for example - the photovoltaic systems that are on the roofs of our homes and that so many citizens with sacrifices have installed, not only in an ecological spirit but in full harmony with everything that is happening in Europe. Well, something very unpleasant will happen: many citizens, those who have received incentives on photovoltaic plants, will find themselves having a big problem, because they will have installed panels that - alas - do not have the certification they should have - but they will have done it without their knowledge - and they will see reduced the contribution that came from the state by 30%. Some say that they will be able to resort, but the citizen who has made a three-kilowatt plant will hardly be able to resort to or will resort to this problem. In our view, it was necessary to safeguard the citizen more, particularly in this case. I shall conclude by saying something that we consider essential on energy. This is a government that, among the governments that have succeeded in recent years, is certainly the one that has done the least and that has the most confused ideas on the issue of energy. He has not yet understood that the air in Europe has changed and does not have a serious industrial plan. You continue to think that we must find energy at a lower cost in order to be able to sell it at a lower cost when, instead, tends to, in the more developed countries, that in recent months have left out - for example - nuclear, the philosophy is another: to use less energy. We keep saying that, but this government hasn't figured it out yet. We must make a policy that, as in the whole of Europe or in the serious countries, expects that less energy will be used, that better use will be made of it and not that more will be produced at a lower cost. This is tending to be wrong. This attitude is also at the heart of this measure, which, as far as energy is concerned, is the result of a policy that looks more at lobbying and personal interests and does not look at the interests of the citizen at all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u125	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in place of my colleague Gianni Girotto, who has carefully followed the whole examination of the measure but who unfortunately cannot be here with us in this House. The 5 Star Movement confirms its opinion with respect to the measure in question on which it has already expressed itself contrary. It considers that, despite the long examination, the majority have not been able to listen to the needs and seize the opportunity that consumers and production activities of the different categories were waiting for. In the lightning examination of the fourth reading held in the 10th Commission, although we have not been given any opportunity to intervene to make some improvements, it has clearly proved the difficulty of the Government to maintain the stubbornness of a majority that in this measure has also managed to hold thanks to the "crocerossino" rescue of Forza Italia in the Commission and the umpteenth confidence placed by the Government in the Chamber. Both the Crusader relief and the trust placed by the Government do not enter into the substance of the matter. I am the crusader of a government that, although without a majority, wants to maintain its commitment to preserve and care for the interests of shop of different categories, with a serious damage to the competitiveness of the country and the protection of consumers, rather than leaving open the free confrontation to intervene and open really towards liberalisation. It is a behaviour that alienates the majority of Parliament - and the political expression it is representing at the moment - from the defence of collective interests, by nourishing the selfishness of particular interests. I deepen this point by recalling in this Assembly the reflection given by Luigi Einaudi in the Economy of Competition and Historical Capitalism. He thought in essence to always reflect on the fact that the plant of competition is not born of itself, and does not grow alone; it is not a secular tree that the furious storm cannot shake; it is a delicate arboscello, which must be defended with affection against the diseases of selfishness and particular interests, carefully supported against the dangers that threaten it on every side under the economic firmament. With the approval of these provisions, the plan of competition, represented by Einaudi in the delicate arboscello, risks being threatened by the diseases of selfishness and particular interests that this majority once again wanted to guarantee. The topics addressed were many. We will focus only on some of the aspects that concern the energy sector, which the 5 Star Movement considered appropriate to bring out during the work. They are proposals that the government and the majority have brought into the vacuum, because they would really open the energy market to liberalisation and undermine the centralized and oligopolistic system of the sale and production of energy based on generation from fossil sources. We asked for simple things. We asked not to hinder the energy revolution and its current benefits. We have asked everyone to be able to produce, self-consumption and sell energy from renewable sources, as laid down in the European directives, which are not applied in Italy. Continuing to hinder the creation of this decentralised, renewable and efficient energy model does not help the health, the environment and the economy of our country that, after having invested massively - even making mistakes on incentive mechanisms that we do not want to hide - and matured important experiences and professionalism, risks now leaving them in the hands of other countries. Let us remember that Mr Tomaselli's openings and approved agendas on closed distribution systems are appreciable, but they have still not brought any change of pace. If you really wanted to, you could have converged on our proposal. But you obviously don't have the courage to stand up to the big lobby of centralised energy production. In the electrical energy market, one of the issues that prompted the government to put trust, you have too often changed the cards on the table, pursuing different principles and objectives, all against consumers. You have also created greater uncertainty for consumers, referring to a decree of the Ministry of Economic Development the fate of 23 million customers who currently do not know how and what they will be able to choose for the supply of energy from the moment when the so-called protected market will be repealed. On this aspect the 5 Star Movement wanted to hold a consistent position without getting pulled the jacket and avoiding that customers unable to choose a supplier were fed in the so-called safeguard market, with a mechanism currently difficult to decipher. The 5 Star Movement will pay a lot of attention to prevent millions of consumers being fed without protecting the few energy producers and sellers, to really overcome the present oligopoly. We are opposed to pushing consumers into safeguarding, but in favour of making management for their supply not to a monopolist, but to a plurality of sellers. In fact, we believe that ENEL's monopoly on distribution must finally be overcome, just as it is necessary to nationalize the part that concerns the transmission of energy made by Terna. These are issues that we will certainly have a chance to resume. It would have been appropriate to accompany the consumer in a growth path capable of generating awareness and guidance. We know the world of illegible bills. The only thing understandable in reading the bill is the total bill to pay. They are difficult to understand the services and costs of telephone bills, for electricity supply and any other service. We should have provided the consumer with effective defence tools. Instead, he will continue to be vexed by big companies and another opportunity seems to be lost. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u127	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u128	Madam President, the first thing that came to mind is that it takes a lot of courage to ask for confidence in such a measure. After all the time that we have tried to change and improve it in order to respond to a number of categories calling for answers to policy, today we are looking at a measure that - in our opinion - makes virtually all kinds of water. For reasons of time I will not enter specifically, but I want to list very quickly the problem of insurance, of banks, against whose dominance it is necessary to protect savers and users; the problem of health, which is touched on in a dominant way; the problem of communications and energy, about which Senator Crosio has spoken very well, and the problem of taxi drivers. You, Mr President, know him very well, given that you were the author of that shameful amendment. If you remember, at the time, during the taxi driver's protest, this government, to appease the category, promised that within a month a decree-law would be made. Campa horse that the grass grows! President, the decree-law has not arrived and today with this provision no response is given; on the contrary, it delegates itself to the Government to do something. Once again the taxi drivers are put to the sedan and, once again, a category that works and that gives a service to the public throughout Italy is put in difficulty. I am leaving the Bolkestein directive out because it has been months, if not years, that we are talking about a problem imposed by Europe. This government and the two previous ones have done virtually nothing to protect walkers and beaches. And every time we talk about Bolkestein, I hear colleagues from the Democratic Party telling me that I want to protect the lobby of walkers and beachmen. They're not lobbying, they're families, businesses and people who work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and create income, pay taxes and allow us to be in this Parliamentary Assembly. Mr President, since I am directly interested in what I do and what I have done as a city councilman in the City where I was operating, I would like to remind you of the shame of cultural heritage. I wonder how a minister like Franceschini allowed a crap that was even denounced by Italia Nostra, with an important letter that was sent to all the senators and to the same minister Franceschini. The letter contains the same perplexities that we have and that we had. I am referring first of all to the raising of the age that a work must have in order to be considered cultural good: from the present fifty to the seventy years. According to you, the works made between 1947 and 1967 are no longer cultural assets and, therefore, authors such as Caccia Dominioni, Giò Ponti, Gardella, Figini, Pollini, De Chirico and Guttuso - and I go no further - have not produced cultural assets. This is the intelligence of the Democratic Party and the Left that they think they are solos in terms of culture and then in the end they slide heavily and prevalently on initiatives of this kind. Worse still, always with regard to cultural goods, is the liberalization of the definitive exit from the territory of our country of all cultural assets that have a self-declared economic value less than 13.500 euros. I have a work at home that is worth millions of euros, I declare that it is worth less than 13,500 euros and I can export it. Madam President, good, you are promoting illegal trafficking in cultural goods from Italy to abroad. That's how jackals behave. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u129	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering an important measure which will open up certain sectors of the economy to greater competition, which will serve as a driving force for greater economic growth. The commitment was to enact a competition law every year, while we will approve one throughout the legislature. I hope, therefore, that the next legislature will be able to maintain its annual periodicity. I do not want to go into detail here, as the rapporteurs have already done very well. I would like to point out just a few points of thought. We must continue to fight the unfair competition of those who evade taxes, of those who do not comply with the labour rules and put workers' lives at risk. So much has been done in this legislature, such as - for example - with the law on the contrast to the caporalate, but there is still so much to do. It is also necessary to intervene with anti-dumping rules at European level in order to ensure that workers and their trade unions, even the lack of respect for human rights, the absence of environmental protection do not give an unfair competitive advantage to more recent industrialised nations. This is also a matter of unfair competition. I know that the European Parliament is already working in the International Trade Commission (INTA) on a so-called anti-dumping rule, but some countries have adopted national rules in this area: I am referring to the French law on due diligence for multinational companies and the modern slavery act of the United Kingdom. This bill of ours, in short, is very focused on commercial competition and less on industrial competition. The third point I would like to make is that the liberalization of gang C drugs has remained outside the scope of the measure. We know that, due to the ageing population, spending on drugs is constantly increasing. Therefore, a rule that, by opening the market, would have lowered prices for the benefit of consumers would have been necessary and appropriate. Perhaps there could have been protection rules for pharmacies in small centres, but this market should have been opened up. Not intervening was a mistake, an injustice. Finally, this draft law comes to its final approval after many parliamentary passages, after periods of stalemate in the Commission, after negotiations and forcings of which little has been known and imagined much. More transparency would have been desirable; the opportunity could have been taken to introduce rules to regulate the activities of stakeholders. The interferences of pressure groups were there and there would have been nothing regrettable in this if there had been real transparency. Regulation of lobbying is a growing need at all levels. Recently the House of Deputies introduced a register of lobbyists and defined rules for access to Parliament; many regions have acted on this and so have some ministries. However, there is a lack of national law and this is a serious deficiency. During the course of this draft law I tried to propose as an amendment the legislative proposal which, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is the basic text for regulating the activities of stakeholders. Unfortunately, the outcome was negative. In conclusion, we are taking an important step forward, but we have also seriously missed some opportunities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u131	Madam President, we are talking about competition and the market and, therefore, about something that should make it easier for citizens to have a competitive market and, consequently, more reasonable prices. However, I would like to focus on RC cars which, in the measure, are regulated by Article 1 to Article 15. It is therefore a fairly important structure, abundant I would say, being 15 articles. But these 15 articles should allow for more competition and great competition between different players holding a product should then have as a final result a reasonable price for the consumer. But already within the RC car market we know very well that several times the competition and market authority had to wand, and therefore sanction, the companies, because they made cartels among themselves. Last but not least, when we entered Parliament, we immediately made it clear that we considered the car RC system to be unfair in Italy: a system that had to be changed, a system that had to be completely rebuilt, because there was no competition and therefore, since there was no competition, prices were not reasonable. And, when we started to fight, we noticed that businesses, probably because of a situation that automatically happened when we entered and we started talking about RC cars and - by chance - maybe a risk situation has failed, they started to make strong discounts. And these discounts have told us in the Commission, telling us that they have gone too far and asking why we wanted to propose a rule that equates all motorists. And we were told that we should not approve this rule, because all motorists could not be equated, and that the companies had to be free to make the prices they wanted. That is what they have come to tell us in the Commission. And they even came to tell us that we had to repeal the rule that we had inserted, that it equated all motorists from North to South, otherwise they would have been forced to go to Europe. But go to Europe, my dear company. Unipol and ANIA, who have come to the Commission, go to Europe; go and speak in Europe and say that in practice in Italy the same person, with the same age, if he changes Common, must pay more or, perhaps, less (it depends on where he goes to reside). Is that normal? It is always the same person, who has only changed residence. At this point, if we are talking about competition, then we are talking about companies. A company that has its business in one area, if it moves the same same activity to another area, pays the RC car award differently. It is in this case that there is a distortion of competition and the market. We asked for something very simple, that the House had passed. At this point, however, I have the doubt that, just as the repeal of the vitalities in the Chamber of Deputies has passed and as you have repealed the rule that equated all motorists, in the Senate you will do the same thing that you did to the RC fair car. Here in the Senate, the repeal of the vitals is probably not going to happen. I therefore have the doubt, partly because we saw this morning that you did not wish to declare the urgency of the measure on vitality. Let us return to the RC car, for which we had proposed a reasonable measure: to all motorists who in the last five years do not declare sinister - and this means that they are virtuous motorists - must be applied the lowest prize of the national territory. This would provide the same treatment for an identical situation. But no, you first wanted to change the rule and then you even wanted to delete it. As a matter of fact, you decided to delete this rule when the representatives of Unipol and ANIA came to the Commission to say: If you delete this rule, or if you do not, we will go to Europe. Is it possible that they come here to the Senate to tell us these things? What do we do? In fact, not us, but what do you do? Do what you've been asked! It is obvious that then there are doubts, which become legitimate when we go to see that you have really modified and repealed that rule, which attributed the same right to identical situations. Mr President, I therefore believe that this measure is not good for the market and is therefore not good for the consumer. Among other things, this is an annual measure on competition and the market. It should be annual, but it only took him a year to move from the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate: so let alone how long this measure lasted! The legislature has lasted for four and a half years now, and that means that it took this majority four and a half years to pass an annual law. This means that, probably, just as these big insurance lobbies came to the Commission and they threw at you for the jacket, who knows how many other rules there are within the measure, in addition to the one on the car RC, that could have brought down prices for the consumer. Instead - pull the jacket over here and pull the jacket over there - you made a provision that won't help anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u132	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u133	Madam President, I am speaking on the basis of the last reflection made by my previous colleague, who reminded me that everything we do should be in defence of the consumer. The draft law under consideration is entitled "Yearly Law for the Market and Competition." Mr. Government Representative, I'm addressing you to understand how the government and Parliament should protect citizens. It is therefore a very important bill, which deals with many issues, such as taxis, the C-belt of some medicines sold in the pharmacy and the real or real consumption that should be indicated in the billing of water. Thanks to one of our amendments, we were able to incorporate into the draft competition law the rule requiring the effective indication of water consumption, which was not previously foreseen. Before it was possible to bill the water without the actual indication of the consumption: this means that it was done without any reference point. There are two issues I would like to point out to the government representative. I want to ask the representative of the Government how Italy can get out of a moment of difficulty if the two problems that afflict the country are one from the economic and commercial point of view and the other from the health point of view. From the point of view of health, dear representative of the Government, many pharmaceutical industries - not all of them - have applied a new system in the relationship with the medical informant which is no longer based on the information that he can bring to the attention of the doctor, because they have turned the medical informant into a commercial informant. Before the medical informant was paid by some companies to inform the doctor of new drugs (what was the product, how was it used, what could be the side effects) and collected information reported by the doctor who reported to the pharmaceutical company so that this "systemized" that drug avoiding the side effects before putting it back on the market. Now contracts have been changed - we are talking about the bill for the market and competition - which are no longer based on information: the medical informant is not paid for the work he does, but as far as he can propaganda, that is to say to ensure that the doctor to whom he addresses prescribes that particular product so that, through the nearest pharmacy, he can sell as many products as possible. Therefore, when I hear the fellow Member talking about protecting the citizen, and yet we cannot make these reflections, which are really heavy, I think we are talking about something abstract and we certainly cannot offer any kind of guarantee. I have another thought about economics and finance. From this point of view, how can a citizen be protected if in this bill we have not at all touched on the possibility of dividing commercial banks and business banks? What does that mean? We have not provided protection for the citizen by distinguishing those banks that are currently under a single hut and act in a very unfair or unorthodox way towards the citizens. Mr President, I see that my time is running out, so I would like to sum up by asking the Undersecretary, my colleague, who represents the Government: how do you guarantee a citizen when there is no division over the banks that collect, without contemplating a single bank that collects and of which, consequently, it can be invested to protect the interests of the citizen? Instead there is a bank that makes the collection and at the same time makes investments. The latter, if they were made for the protection of the citizen, could be interesting, but they are instead made on behalf of the lobbyists. Moreover, they are investments of which, when they go well, no one speaks (and the receipts end up inside these lobby); But when they go wrong, the socialization of the debt is called for. This is the subject of a few days ago, when you asked for trust to save some banks by saying that there was a risk of financial crac for the country. This is the overall reflection. Of course, Mr President, we cannot talk much in five minutes. I would have hoped that on a draft law which has been stationary in Parliament for twenty-nine months you would not have put the question of trust and given more opportunity to parliamentarians to intervene, distort, amend and create something more concrete in the interest of the country. I hope for the future that your Government will be able to change its direction for as long as it remains and have a different relationship with Members of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft competition law, which returned to the Senate at the fourth reading, after a decantation between the two chambers of eight hundred and fifty days, even if it reached the final lines, demonstrated the inadequacy of the instrument of an annual competition law. This, essentially, for two reasons: the first is that it took almost three years to complete a law that should be, precisely, annual; the second, as President Cucchetti rightly pointed out in the Industry Commission on 27 July, especially because of the uncertainties of the Government. Above all, the excessive scope of the text under discussion is implausible to the Government: many subjects, many sectors involved that have produced, however, a poor result for a happy opening to competition from the markets. The competition law has become a measure aimed at liberalizing a large cauldron which, rather than opening up to competition in different sectors, tries to defend consumers clumsily and protect certain categories. We can see some regulatory action on certain sectors here and there, but it is difficult even to define a draft competition law. Moreover, the text we are discussing stems from the merger of the original text, presented by the Renzi Government, consisting of 32 articles, with seven other legislative proposals concerning compulsory insurance for cars and boats. This is not the concept of competition that is ours, and it is not ours either for the Guarantor Authority, which has asked for regulatory action aimed at removing the bottlenecks and obstacles that block the development of the economy and prevent the competitive market from producing its effects, in terms of efficiency and innovation. The result is a monster, not three heads, but 192 heads, which, as often happens, caress all possible disciplines related to competition, without ever treating them thoroughly. From this story we can learn a lesson for the future. If the law wants to maintain its annual frequency, it will have to be slim and involve two or three sectors to be liberalised each year, with surgical interventions, able to involve, from the outset, all the interests involved in the liberalisation: historical operators of that sector, consumers, newcomers. Moreover, perhaps we should look at how other countries have regulated the sectors under consideration and how the process of opening up to competition has taken place over time. This can help a tendentially corporate country like Italy to gradually open up to higher levels of competition without delay and without social trauma. This approach also applies to the professional categories, a sector which is significantly affected by the measure. The professions should have been operated in such a way as to better protect the user, simplify and de-burocratise. But the obvious and the useful has been wrecked in the chaos of half choices and compromise solutions: paragraphs 142 and 154 govern, respectively, the exercise of the profession of forensics and dental in company form and are clearly contradictory provisions. If in fact for companies, even for profit, made up of lawyers, it is mandatory that two thirds of the members are lawyers enrolled in the Register, for the companies managing dental studies an amendment of mine having the same content has been rejected several times. I hope that the explanation is not that court cases need professionalism certified by a register and dental care does not, because perhaps in this case the Government has escaped that the "three for two" is a commercial offer that is not suitable for a good and a constitutionally protected right such as health. Moreover, we know well that in our country, thanks to the so-called Bersani law, to the liberal professionals, on whose shoulders the reckless choice of the policy of not being neither liberal nor statist, but irresponsible and redundant, is not even recognized a fair compensation for their work. This measure did not have the courage to accept the many demands of the professional world, and even the legislative proposals presented, including one by my signature, which reinstates the fair compensation for professionals. The result is that lawyers have a tariff not because they have a value in their work, but because another state power, the judiciary, offers a scoreboard to decide on the costs of judgment. Alternatively, there are groups of architects, geometries, accountants, engineers, doctors, who are sometimes forced to work almost in storage to be able to be on the market. All to the detriment of consumers, who are in front of a market where the strongest screamer will grab the customer, regardless of the quality of the service he makes. A bit like in politics, where lately the screamer is believed the more. Finally, if there is still a need to demonstrate that for the Government professionals are divided into series A and B, like football teams, it is absolutely inconceivable for me that the liberalization of the notary profession passes through a reduction in the number of inhabitants (from 7.000 to 5.000) for each notary and not through a homologation of the discipline of the latter to that of the other professionals, making possible the exercise of the activity throughout the national territory. In a competitive and streamlined way, as well as in line with the Community legal guideline, which covers the measure itself, I had put forward proposals for amendments aimed at facilitating the extension to professionals referred to in UNI 11511, certified and qualified in accordance with Law No 4 of 2013, first of all to the audience of professionals entitled to apply the visa of conformity and, second, to those who may represent the taxpayer in tax litigation, limited to the disputes of their clients arising from obligations for which the professionals have provided their assistance (all in the same way as recently ruled by Decree-Law No 193 of 2016). They are persons already authorised as tax intermediaries and are entitled to represent and assist taxpayers before the offices of the financial administration, pursuant to Article 63 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 600 of 1973. My proposals in this regard were all aimed at ensuring the protection of the consumer through the enhancement of the qualification and certification paths of the professionals ex-Law No 4 of 2013 and the overcoming of restrictions on the conduct of an activity for which there is no need of general interest that hinders the opening of competition. Proposals which, in addition to not burdening the state budget, as they did not entail additional burdens, would have reduced the costs and increased the benefits for taxpayers and businesses, who could have availed themselves of the professionalism of those who usually talk with the financial administration. Scrolling through the bill, then, we intercept another of the anomalies all Italian, the parapharmacies, on which, we know, the real subject that earns are the great economic groups of distribution, that through these forms "no meat, no fish" can insert their business in the fundamental right of health. Liberalizing the pharmacies sector does not mean dilating according to needs the drugs that can or can not be distributed or apparently less spend and then, in reality, more spend. To liberalise consciously means to move from a criterion of maximum number of pharmacies per inhabitant to a criterion of fair service, in order to merge two needs: the widespread spread on the national territory of the health care centres par excellence and the legitimate demands of the new entrants, avoiding solutions to problems that open up to more burdensome problems. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u135	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of a long road full of obstacles, which has engaged Parliament and, in particular, the Senate for two years. The bill for the promotion and development of competition, presented by the Government on 3 April 2015, is about to become a law, a result that actually looks more like a starting point than a goal, especially because of the many polemics that have characterized its legislative process. Before sharing some thoughts, I would like to thank the president of the Industry Commission, Senator Massimo Mucchetti, and the speakers, the senators Luigi Marino and Tomaselli, for the way in which they have managed the process of this measure; for having defended the autonomy of the Senate from external interference and, above all, from the interferences of the Government and the secretariats of the parties. We had to make decisions that were not always obvious, knowing that the expectations on this measure were many and varied. And the weight of this responsibility was immediately felt, which is why it has not always been easy to find a balance between the individual provisions, but also in the choice of the subjects to be included. In this sense, the criticisms that have been made to the Senate about the slowness of the discussion and the choice to have introduced articles that were not present in the text presented by the Government, are unfounded. Undoubtedly the times could be shorter, however the delays that have accumulated are not in any way attributable to the action of the Senate, but they were wanted by the Government also because of internal conflicts of the majority. Beginning with the stop required with the approaching of the local elections of 2015, the request for suspension of work to allow the rotation between Minister Guidi and Minister Calenda, the suspension wanted by Palazzo Chigi in view of the electoral campaign for the referendum last December. However, the satisfaction of arriving at the final lines of the measure under consideration is mitigated by the bitterness determined by political choices that have put the Senate before a real Diktat, without any room for negotiation, but with an implicit invitation to take or leave, which does not honour the Legislative Assemblies. Last April, the Senate was asked to take a step back to ensure the adoption of the measure before the end of the legislature, although there was still room to improve some provisions. In the face of the possibility of throwing the work of two years into the wind, common sense persuaded us to make the best decision, but not the most functional one for the realization of this project. However, this agreement was inexplicably broken during the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, putting an end to the shared path that had been decided previously. Among other things, the changes decided upon by my fellow Members present clear problems that have worsened the text approved by the Senate. An example of this is the choice of fellow Members to remove the rule that had introduced constraints for companies operating in the call center sector, such as the obligation for operators to communicate the identification data of the contracting entity and the commercial purpose of the contact, but also the prohibition of offering subscription services without the prior consent, expressed and documented. This provision could be a first step in regulating an area which shows obvious shortcomings. In this regard, I thank the Government for having accepted, albeit with changes, my agenda, which aims precisely to conclude, in the few months that separate us from the end of the legislature, the process of the draft laws that modify the Public Register of Oppositions. This is an opening on the part of the Commission, which shows that the repealed amendment to the House of Deputies is not in line with the current political sensitivities. Here too, however, the reasons for politics have prevailed over the issues of merit, because at this moment there is the credibility of the Senate and of the country. From tomorrow, however, the commitment will have to be to consider the competition law a measure that must be approved annually. This means, therefore, abandoning the bad habit of placing sporadic norms within the most disparate measures, without an overall vision, to emancipate the country from the cross vetoes that have to date kept Italy always a step back from the rest of Europe. The attention of the legislator will not be so much focused on the action of lobbyists who are trying to preserve their areas of action, but on the innovations that will come from European law. On the national front, in particular, it will be important to monitor public procurement legislation, which is based on the principle of fair competition. It is widely held that the system of Community thresholds in custody procedures is an obstacle for our business system, based 90% on small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a negative effect which, without corrective measures, will mainly penalise the Mezzogiorno, which has a higher percentage of small enterprises compared to other parts of the country. It will be increasingly Europe that will force us to revolutionise our concept of competition by reviewing the dictates of our internal market, which will have to be monitored in order not to harm the internal economy. Over the last few weeks there have been heated controversy about the ratification of the agreement between the European Union and Canada, the so-called CETA, especially because many economic operators consider some of its rules penalising against our Made in Italy, always protagonist of the Italian economy. In addition, the House is in the process of discussing the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which gives the competition authorities of the Member States the necessary powers to achieve the objectives assigned to them. A reform that is intended to change the dynamics between Parliament and authority, with a possible reconfiguration of competences that could also affect the implementation of the annual competition law. These elements, which the legislator must bear in mind, accompanying the changes in those national and local realities that for decades have been subject to the rules of a closed market. Driving our businesses within new European scenarios, through framework rules and laws that provide for a fair transition period, will have to be an imperative. In other words, it is necessary not to repeat situations such as those that involved the taxi service. Italy cannot wait any longer to be competitive, credible and reliable within the internal economy, but also to attract foreign investors. The adoption of the Competition Act was an essential step and this Parliament must be given the merit of achieving this objective. Now we are on the right path, we just have to go along it with a sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u137	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I too, like many in this House, have been uncomfortable over the very long time of adoption of this measure. Of course, it is incredible that a measure of such strategic importance is still here, in the ripple between the two branches of Parliament, but it is also true that the issues touched on are articulated, complex and that sometimes they are based on the very subtle balance between combating incomes without prohibiting the possibility of profit, as the rapporteur, Mr Luigi Marino, has rightly pointed out. This vote does not loosen all the nodes of the measure, starting with the fact that some measures had been designed in a framework that has now changed. Soon we will have to put back some of the elements contained in the text in order to move towards greater harmonisation of legislation. In the meantime, however, we welcome your approval, because there are important rules, long-awaited rules from the various economic areas that are interested in them. Competition, when corrected, stimulates comparison and leads to improvement of supply. As self-employed, we have always stressed the need for initiatives to streamline the bureaucratic framework, able to reward merit and promote competitiveness, rules able to exploit the potential of our production system, which can stimulate process and product innovation, but also standards, especially in those markets where there can be the tendency of large corporations to determine the rules of engagement, able to protect small realities, when they are niche and produce quality. A balance which must be sought, including in relation to the interests of the consumer. An example of this is the risk that insurance companies may choose to use in the event of an accident. The risk, as has been explained several times in recent months, is that the first ones came to establish the prices and working methods of the second, becoming almost of the owners-shadow. Among the other positive rules there are those related to smart cities, to greater transparency of telephone companies, to the world of agrotechnics that have welcomed the measures on strengthening the company tool for the exercise of the profession. I would also like to mention one of my amendments, which gives bus-transport companies the opportunity to rent vehicles owned by another company. With this measure, companies registered in the National Electronic Register will be able to optimize resources, promoting a more flexible service, a more dynamic market. These are just examples, but I think they make good the positive aspects, some of which are expected by industry. I had then tabled an amendment on telematic VAT, which in my opinion was very important, but which unfortunately was not accepted. On the other hand, it was an error of the Chamber to delete the rule of the private insurance code, previously introduced in the Senate, which provided that insurance policies branch damages of every type upon their expiry could not be tacitly renewed. My colleague, Mr Berger, in his explanations of vote tomorrow will give an overall picture of the improvements that have been introduced thanks to the work of our Group, starting with those that meet the needs of the territories and the mountain economy, and on which I too would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Luigi Marino, Mr Gentile, the members of the Commission for the long, careful and timely work that has taken place in the Commission. Finally, I would like to mention our agenda on the issue of parallel trade in medicines; a legal practice, with a turnover of several million euros per year, but which is likely to create problems of availability of medicines, especially for those of Class A, an issue on which the Ministry of Health had already intervened in the past but which has not yet been completely resolved. For this reason, I hope that, even on the basis of the adoption of the agenda, initiatives will be put in place to effectively prevent states of deficiency or non-availability, even temporary, of certain essential medicinal products on national territory which are directly or indirectly attributable to the practice of parallel exports. This is an important issue on which action will be needed as soon as possible to ensure full access to medicines and the right to treatment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u139	Madam President, first in this Chamber Senator Centinario wondered how Minister Franceschini could have allowed the inclusion of paragraph 176 in this draft competition law, which then became a unique article. I am not surprised, however, because paragraph 176 on the circulation of our cultural assets abroad is the worthy epilogue of a horror film whose screenwriters are the award-winning firm Franceschini-Renzi-Madia. All this was born, in fact, with that avant-garde measure, the so-called unlock Italy, then rightly renamed as the destruction Italy; moreover, it was strongly wanted by the breaker that will end up broken. Then we had the reform of the Ministry, then the Law delegation Madia on the reorder of the public administration, which saw this beautiful norm on silence-consent and then also the Superintendences were placed under the commissioning of the prefecture. Again, we had the bill on historic centers and the corrective of the procurement code. If anything does not change, we will have the bill of reform of the legislation on parks and, finally, we come to this paragraph 176 of the bill on competition. All this because we should be the guarantors of Article 9 of our Constitutional Charter. Good for us: indeed, good for you. This paragraph 176 masks a fake simplification by opening the highway for goods of cultural interest, which can cheerfully come out of Italy, with great joy of the unvirtuous art merchants, of all those who have dedicated themselves to various titles to the illicit export of ancient books and documents and many other beautiful things. How did it work until today? The Ministry's export offices carried out (and in theory would still carry out) a prior check on things likely to be cultural assets. The requirements for the mandatory passage in the export offices for the definitive exit, according to the Urban Code of 2004, are: artistic, historical, architectural, archaeological and ethno-anthropological interest; being a work of artist no longer alive and that had been performed for more than fifty years. What's the difference? The raising of the threshold from fifty to seventy years and the introduction of a threshold of economic value. How will the age and venal value of an asset be established? A self-certification of the applicant on the basis of which certificates and certificates will be issued automatically. On the venal value that is introduced as a parameter to define the cultural interest of a good there would be to rip off the hair, because it is a disconcerting thing. What do we practically do? We confuse the cultural value of a thing with its quotation, but we know well that cultural value, unlike a quotation, is not an obnoxious value that is subject to the laws of the market, nor a value that by its nature can be changeable or change from place to place. The cultural value of an asset should be detached from all these variable factors. But no: we decide that cultural value of a good from now on will be assimilable to its market value. Well done, you! Therefore, as a colleague rightly recalled, all the works produced between 1947 and 1967 will not be subject to compulsory examination by the Export Offices. And here have already been mentioned illustrious authors who have given so much and so much lustre to our country: De Chirico, Guttuso, Balla, Carrà, Boccioni, Lucio Fontana and others. Not to mention coins, books or ancient manuscripts, because there are not only canvases. With regard to self-certification, it is permitted regardless of age. They will be free to leave our country, without the examination of the Export Office, all works with a value of less than 13,500 euros. The only obligation for art dealers, but not for private citizens, will be to keep a computer register that will be taken care of by the superintendent to monitor. We know very well in fact that the superintendent has nothing to do within the Superintendences, since then they will all be very committed to respecting the strict norm on silence-consent, because if they do not respect the prescribed terms, which have been halved, they will see starting works, with devastation of our landscape, without hurting. The superintendents will all be committed to saving our landscape and our heritage and will also have to take the trouble to consult, one time, this computer registry kept of the art merchants, ask to be able to view the suspect good and thus verify the self-certification. There is more: we are talking about a Register of Things under Commerce established by the Royal Decree of 18 June 1931, No 773, Article 128. Article 126 of this royal decree, repealed in 2016, stipulated that the trade in ancient or used things cannot be exercised without prior declaration to the local public security authority, i.e. the prefect. With a legging, Legislative Decree No. 222 of November 2016, we repealed Article 126, in fact repealing the obligation of this declaration. The result is an empty record of its purposes. We have actually weakened an instrument. We therefore ask the art dealers to keep an instrument, without any obligation to make any statement, neither the authority responsible for public security, that is, the prefect, nor the superintendent, because it will be the superintendent who has to take the trouble to carry out any checks on all the art merchants and all those who trade the ancient books and manuscripts. We have already forgotten, in fact, the fabulous story that affected the Library of the Girolamini of Naples. We have already forgotten all that flood of stolen manuscripts, something for which we also have a well-known political exponent who is no longer among us at the moment, but elsewhere, I think in Parma. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here, we have forgotten all these things, because our short memory is proportional to our interest in protecting our artistic and cultural heritage in this country and therefore also to our disinterest in our collective memory heritage as a community. All right, everybody! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I conclude because, as I said in another speech, the devil makes pots but does not make lids. So, the Bassotti gang, who quickly packaged the amendment that became article 68, presented by Senator Marcucci and all the other friends of the art dealers and all the other group of people, to be good, had the courage to write the following in the norm and I thank Tommaso Montanari because he was the first to notice this thing and to give us this gift. It is written that, according to the new provision that is intended to insert in article 10, also the objects of archaeological interest cannot be bound if realized by still living artist. We will all start to make beautiful spiritual sessions and to recall this living artist who gives us this beautiful archaeological artifact. After the séance, we will verify that they have not been performed for less than fifty years. Even in this case it is not clear what the term "archaeological" refers to. Maybe it refers to the date from the discovery. However, they must be between fifty and seventy years old. Once again it is not given to understand whether archaeological objects are meant to refer to the age of discovery or to other. All these can be bound only if of exceptional value not in itself, but for the integrity and completeness of the national heritage, as if we could safely export all the things found in Pompeii because, since we have not found them in their completeness, they would lose their exceptional value. Congratulations! In this legislature, Minister Franceschini and the Government of which he is a member will be remembered for the ruin of the protection and enhancement of our cultural heritage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u140	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u141	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this confidence gives a little the hallmark of a rugged path of a measure that has committed Chamber and Senate for a very long time. I think I have to start by thanking the two speakers, Senators Tomaselli and Luigi Marino, for the patience with which they continued to sew a canvas that was often torn and then put back in place. It's an omnibus measure. So, it's really a lot of space. There are a number of issues that have been dealt with and many colleagues have touched on them. Therefore, I would like to deepen the angle of the professions, see this particularity and the space that the bill reserves for you. Surely the sector is important for the country as it involves two million professionals enrolled in the register. The sector really helps to give job and contributes to the GDP of our Italy. This year, on the one hand, the sector has had an important recognition with the law on self-employment and new delegations for the professions, simplification, some recognised rights and some important steps. That's why I see this measure a little disonic. Looking at what is contained in the bill, the real question I ask myself is: what is the role of professions and intermediate bodies? 2017 is, on the one hand, a horrible year for the professions: for the waltz of the extensions, which we are now considering with the complaints of the professionals for the South decree, with the maneuver called "Resto al Sud" that does not find the valorization of the professional section, for the corrective maneuver, the maneuver, in which we have seen the split payment applied to the orders, but also for the impossibility to compensate credits and debts with the Agency of the revenues under 5.000 euros; for the theme of the fair compensation, an incomplete measure. After the "sheets" of 2006 in Bersani, it is a theme that is strongly placed by professionals. I believe that, beyond the fact that no profession is afraid of the capital entering, what is lacking in this measure is a unified approach to the entry of capital and, above all, respect for the function of professionals within capital companies. There is not a single reference to a deontological guardian of the professional's activity with respect to the capital that rightly or unjustly - I do not want to address this issue - will do his job, that is to bring a profit to the company or a positivity in the budget. Thus, observing the measures that have been racked up for professionals, we note the distony of these realities: for lawyers, capital is expected for one third of companies, while pharmacists will have the opportunity to be acquired at 20% by capital companies. This is a different problem: we are not talking about the acquisition of 20 percent of the pharmacy, but 20 percent of the pharmacies. Therefore, we basically immediately verify that the will to liberalise in reality is a will to go towards an oligopoly, because in the regions 20% of the companies will acquire, not part of a pharmacy as happens for the other professionals, but the entire possession of the pharmacy, in fact frustrating the title of the bill under consideration. This measure will not be in favour of competition but of oligopoly, I would like it to be clear and understood by everyone. I do not intend to defend any caste; I am really telling what is written in the measure under discussion. We will have companies of capital of the engineers in which external capital will be present that has been regularized by this bill; we will have a minimal decrease of the basin of users of the notaries; we certainly have unclear situations regarding the ultraactivity of the policies, that will be an additional cost to the professionals. I would like to say that if we really wanted to introduce a measure on competition we would have had to try to straighten out a bit, avoiding adopting a measure that wants to deal with all the issues and then not deal with them anymore, because it is impossible to follow the evolution of a rule that contains a bit of everything on time. Obviously in this case it has not profited the time, which has made us take and resume the topic so many times and therefore also lose the unity of action. However, I would like to say that, if we really want to help professionals, with this measure we will get nothing, on the contrary we will have the mortification of those who every day, even struggling in these years, have managed to make a contribution to this country in terms of jobs and GDP. Surely we will have to return to these rules, because following this route we will certainly get nothing for such an important sector of our Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u142	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u145	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I would also like to thank you for the time you have given me the opportunity to make this speech. In fact, it is important to denounce a disastrous gas extraction project in the province of Chieti. I start from the assumption that it is no longer acceptable that every ten years citizens, associations and mayors of the Val di Sangro (which is the largest industrial area in Abruzzo) must fight a battle already won several times in the past. This area has already seen twice the rejection of similar projects by the Regional EIA Committee, although oil companies still persist. I find it unacceptable that, although the criticalities of that area are unchanged and even evident since 1969, international oil groups are opposed to presenting requests for the exploitation of these sites. That area has the largest field on land established in Italy, but at the same time it is also the most problematic. In 2009 the Forest Oil SpA forest company presented a concession request, then the Abruzzo Region expressed itself with negative opinion both in 2012 and 2013, then in 2015 came even the rejection of the Council of State thanks to the applicants of the Committee of Citizens Management participated in the territory of Lake Bomba, the association WWF Italia NGO Onlus and WWF Abruzzo that managed to make succumb the Canadian multinational. Subsequently, on 20 May 2016, the CMI Energia SpA applied for the cultivation of hydrocarbons on the same site that is currently the subject of opinion by the National EIA Committee, as if the proven and perpetual fragility of the territory was not acclaimed. Subsidity could lead to serious problems of keeping the dam of Lake Bomba and for this reason, applying the precautionary principle, the EIA Committee of the Region then rejected the project now inopportunely proposed to the national government level. That territory must be excluded once and for all from the list of exploitable deposits. The oil tankers of the CMI Energia have recently deposited to the Ministry further documents; therefore soon there will be the decision of the commission national EIA, to which will follow the interministerial decree. We have to ask ourselves: why are issues such as induced seismicity, subsidity, the issue of the decision of the Council of State and many other objective critical issues raised in depth being underestimated? The last measure of the reform of the EIA only increases the worries, since it provides that you can go ahead with the project, if the Ministry consents, even in case of rejection of the provision of EIA by the administrative judiciary. So a favourable opinion, Madam President, of the Ministry for this project would really be a very hard and unacceptable blow for an entire part of the Abruzzo Region. Thank you again for your time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u148	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I rise once again to call for the Commission of Inquiry to act on the reconstruction of the Eagle. It has been two hundred and sixty-four days since it was decided by this House. The fact that we continue to have no mention of convening this Commission is unheard of. If there are two parliamentary groups that have not yet given the names of their members, Rule 8 of the Senate Rules says: The President represents the Senate and regulates the activities of all its organs, observing the Rules of Procedure. It regulates the activity of all its organs. There's an activity here that can't be allowed. Among other things, in the last parliamentary term, when members of the RAI Supervisory Committee have failed to resign, they have been appointed as empires. Now, despite all the pressure and one day after the closure of the summer break, we have had neither a serious stance nor a clear information on which groups continue to hold a useful, necessary, urgent and indifferent Commission of Inquiry stuck. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u149	We will take charge of transferring your solicitation to the President of the Senate, Senator Blondo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u150	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-870.ana.u151	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, August 2, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.30.
