ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 27 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u4	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 302, 1019, 1151, 1789 and 1907. We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. Verification of the MALAN quorum (FI-PdL XVII). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of the draft law No 302-1019-1151-1789-1907 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u9	Mr President, the measure, which was concluded in the Commission on 1 February 2015, had been postponed by the Assembly to the Commission in May 2017 for a new examination, as the Budget Commission could not give a favourable opinion on the text following some critical remarks proposed by the General Accounting Office of the State, which had found insufficient financial coverage. He then returned to the Commission; then, on 6 June, it was pointed out that the investigation of the text was not yet considered completed, because the General Accounting of the State required a further technical report to the Ministry of Labour, considering the previous incomplete and not without criticality. On 20 June, the criticalities of the text were highlighted. At this point, the rapporteur's further corrections, approved in the Commission and aimed at overcoming the remarks of the Budgetary Commission and the General Accountant of the State, aimed at ensuring that the measure is actually financial invariance, make the text devoid of adequate financial resources, thus merely a declaration of intent. This measure disregards the expectations of people with hearing disabilities, in fact the bill, already opposed by the people who support the oralist method, with the latest changes made in the Commission, will not even meet the favor of those who lean for the introduction of sign language. The administrations concerned will not be able to effectively implement the provisions introduced within the limits of human, instrumental and financial resources available to existing legislation and in any case without new or increased burdens on public finances. In the light of all this, a general discussion once again on this bill, it seems to me, as a doctor, a "therapeutic outrage," I feel like I live a Kafkian situation. This is now a controversial and long-standing debate: this is in fact the seventh legislature, since 1995, in which a text on this subject is presented, a sign that the previous six legislatures came to the conclusion that recognising LIS is not the main right of people with hearing disabilities. Let us not forget that the initial title of this bill provided for the recognition of LIS as a linguistic minority: an abomination. Unconstitutionality was quite clear: we know that a linguistic minority is a community. We are about to discuss draft law no. 2643 which amends the Special Statute of Trentino-Alto Adige on the protection of the Ladin linguistic minority, that is, a community based on origins, traditions, geographical sites, while we wanted to recognize the LIS as a linguistic minority, as if the auditory disabled were an isolated community, against our Constitution and against all the fundamental rights recognised to disability whose inclusion is the cornerstone (see the act voted by the European Parliament on 14 September). It is useful to reiterate that the acquisition of the word is the fundamental premise in order to favor processes of inclusion aimed at full citizenship and to this priority is required a joint commitment of the institutions in order to realize this right through the programming of the regional centers for early diagnosis currently active in few Italian regions despite the LEA. To consider solving the handicap with a limited approach condemns the deaf person to subtle forms of marginalization that do not benefit school success and even to full citizenship. By the way, then, of the proposal of the bilingual classes, I would like to say that children, even those with hearing disabilities, should be bilingual for English, Russian or Chinese not to learn sign language, because it would be like distributing crutches to all children in a class where there is a disabled motor. It'd be like giving him a wheelchair instead of getting him physical therapy. Now we are discussing and approving probably an empty box, another flag to wave. I was told by the rapporteur, whom I thank for the moving video he sent to all of us to say "I love you" in sign language, that since there are no burdens for the state why not adopt a law that now only serves to underline the rights of disabled hearing people? I have been wondering since Parliament made laws that serve to reaffirm another law that is already widely applied, the first in Europe and perhaps in the world, the No 104 of 1992, which guarantees - it does not promote as is said in this text - a formal and substantial equality for disabled people who use LIS or other means of communication, namely: interpreters at school at the expense of the Provinces, interpreters during lectures at the expense of the university, gestural interpretation in television broadcasts at the expense of RAI TV, the implementation of Articles 12 to 18 of Law No 104 of 1992 for the inclusion of school-work at public expense and the accompaniment of interpreters in public offices at the expense of those concerned, which is why the communication allowance is granted. And in cases where the protections provided for by this law were not guaranteed, it is possible to request immediate judicial protection under Law No 67 of 2006. Therefore, when ENS, which has a budget gap of at least EUR 12 million, even with accusations of misappropriation from previous Presidents, continues to send us letters emphasizing that a deaf citizen who has to report to the police must be able to have an interpreter made available by the institutions or in hospital or at school or wants to hire in all the public service, everywhere, interpreters who promote and form or want them to hire and consequently remove the allowance to 43,000 people who receive it in Italy, according to data from the INPS. In fact, I believe that there is always a question of money behind this bill that gives the local authorities the willingness to provide, since the State Accountant does not give money, or at least has been given, gracefully, more or less secretly, to the State Institute for the deaf of Rome, the so-called Nomentano, with the Mezzogiorno decree, on which trust has been placed, a bizarre device to guarantee one million euros to the state schools for the deaf in the South. Too bad that the only school in charge of this was in Palermo and was closed more than 20 years ago. The Nomentano has therefore remained and we are well aware of the truly dramatic situation in which the employees of the institute are located, who also protested before the Ministry of Education, University and Research last April. For years the Nomentano has been waiting to be regulated by the MIUIR and is located in a limbo, but in 2000 he closed his school activity because he transferred it to the Margarotto Institute. Of course there is a door that provides assistance to disabled people and their families, but for this there are the ASLs and the centers in charge and above all many auditory disabled people do not want to deal with them. Wasn't it better, then, to solve the problem from a better point of view and with ad hoc funds for employees' salaries and to pay back the rent of the Institute and maybe give the million euros to the Regions to implement the neonatal screening in the LEA? Was it not better to use them for the prevention and communication of infectious diseases in pregnancy (the ones of the TORCH system) that develop deafness to prevent children from being born deaf or deafening for these reasons? However, I hope that resources will be found for the essential levels of care, because the earlier the diagnosis will be, the smaller the number of disabled hearing children who will need to turn to sign language in order to communicate. Moreover, I wonder - and I would be the first promoter of an initiative in this sense - which sign language? Of course, there is the Italian sign language, but do we know that in Italy almost every city has variants and that there are about 121 sign languages in the world? That is why I am promoting, together with all my colleagues, a universal sign language, so that all those who come from other countries of the world and for whom the only way to communicate is the gesture, can have a uniformly valid and recognized language everywhere in the world. This is not so far, because already in Italy, as I said, there are many. Logopedia is fundamental for these children who - it must be remembered - cannot hear. Precisely for this reason, if you make the diagnosis within three months, you can decide whether to opt for an implant and whether a prosthesis is more useful. Even in the scientific world, the results of the implant of ciliated stem cells are being highlighted precisely to solve deafness at the root. So I wonder why even today the logopedia, necessary for enabling or rehabilitative processes for the development of language, is accessible only to the luckiest or the wealthiest, because guaranteed leopard spot on the national territory or as a private service for payment? Isn't it better to focus on technology and develop scientific research to counter deafness? Nevertheless, even today in the Italian Parliament we are witnessing a controversial and long-standing debate on sign language, which is now more than ever an ideological choice out of time, misleading than the real difficulties that people face every day with deafness or pluridisability. On the other hand, there is a need for consistent government action based on human and constitutional rights which, far from new laws with anachronistic content, prepares three-year programmes aimed at ensuring the right to speak, the right to health, the right to education and self-communication and the same for all. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u10	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u11	Mr President, I could have seen you when you called, but I did not hear you, and it is not one of the most beautiful feelings that accompany about a million people in this country and that have been waiting for a resolution and a provision of this kind for some time, that puts you in a position to be able to learn a sign language that will not be, as Senator Rizzotti said, international, but at least gives the opportunity to many young people, who learn to communicate, and to those who may not have had the chance over the years and become adult, to be able to interact with a serious learning. The articles of these days have written a lot about sign language and today's is considered the last appeal to approve a measure that has seen twenty years of waiting for about one million people concerned (960,000, to be precise); but we should probably connect all families to them as well. Twenty years' delay - as the rapporteur said a few months ago - and last country, our country, which does not have a law to that effect. This delay has been accompanied by controversy and diatribes within the world of deaf and deaf people, probably for a desire to sponsor - although perhaps not the right term - a communication system that may not be LIS; a whole series of analyses that have led us to ask who is right in this respect. This measure is intended to be an enlargement of opportunities. True, there is no law that deals with deaf people, but it is also true that in 1992, as Senator Malan said, there was already something that dealt with disability in general; perhaps at that time we were a little too far ahead. The history of the education of the deaf, indeed of the deaf, has always been crossed by strong polemics on many issues, including in particular that on the use of methods. They have been invented and are currently proposed the most disparate methods, each of which was and is often considered resolving the problem. The strongest contrast for the different educational, linguistic, cultural and social implications was that between the oral method and what, for simplicity, we will call gesture. The opening of the rapporteur a few months ago was welcomed when, at the beginning of his speech, he spoke with the sign language. As is well known, language is perhaps the most complex phenomenon that exists, so its measurement is absolutely difficult, if not objectively impossible. The variables regarding the composition of the sentences are absolutely incredible under the grammatical, syntactic, morphological and lexical aspect. LIS is one of the many languages of signs spread all over the world, on which there is now considerable literature, which tells us how those signs, those movements are words, affirmations; in short, they are speeches. A common concept among deaf people is that communication between deaf people - probably the joke would be easy for me, especially in parliamentary classrooms - is different from that which happens with spoken Italian, considering it a poor communication, inferior, that does not have the possibility to explain perhaps noble concepts rather than complex or high culture. As I explained in my proposal (which was absorbed by this law), with the introduction of LIS at school and experimental level, students live and grow from a bilingual perspective. In this way children are helped to relate to the deaf peers, to approach an additional communicative instrument. LIS is a language for all intents and purposes: readings are made, songs are taught, prayers are taught, and children are able to build true phrases. The sign language is not an abbreviated form of Italian, it is absolutely not a mimic or some Morse or Braille code. It is not even a simple manual alphabet, but a language with its own rules, with its own ability to express itself. In recent months, in particular in the last two weeks, we have perhaps come up against the inability to ensure that the Budget Committee works best, in the sense that when we are getting married with dried figs it becomes increasingly difficult; but we have understood that the fault was not absolutely the Budgetary Commission - said Senator Comaroli, member of the Lega Nord Group in the 5th Commission - because sometimes the representative of the Government has been missing, at other times there has been no possibility of interpreting the amendments very positively. Among other things, a few amendments have been tabled, perhaps because of the desire to have this bill approved. Mr President, we will certainly have a positive attitude on this measure. Could it have been better? Absolutely. We have tried to define, with those who have proposed it and with the rapporteur, a product that will probably not be perfect, but that in the near future can be integrated to ensure that a million people have the opportunity to interact seriously with a world that sometimes becomes a glass bell and does not give the chance to live peacefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, this draft law finally takes up its process in the House. Over the last few months, this House has dealt with disability issues several times. I am thinking of the commitments that have been made with the motions for people suffering from Down's syndrome, and I am thinking above all of the so-called law of after us. Also recently I participated in many initiatives on my territory promoted by realities that deal with disability and inclusion: at the inauguration of the new headquarters of the section of Trento of the Deaf National Agency rather than the assembly of Anffas and that of the Italian Union blind. Last Saturday, at Mart in Rovereto, the museum of modern and contemporary art, the Mart open day was held with the presentation of a video guide for deaf people realized in sign language. It is a project that, on the one hand, confirms the attention of the Rovereto Museum in promoting artistic use; on the other, it is also proof that many obstacles can be overcome. Also, at Mart, other experiments are under way, which the Ministry should encourage and watch with great attention, even for applications that can make museums accessible to all. I wanted to mention these realities to say how in each of these circumstances I was able to appreciate the results and the many steps forward that have been taken to ensure a better quality of life, a better form of care for disabled people and their families, but above all to increase the degree of accessibility to community life. Of course - I have already said this in this House - there is still so much to do to remove all the material and cultural barriers that still exist. In Italy we are often at the forefront of principles and statements, but too often we are lacking in the implementation of rights. The language of signs for deaf, deaf and disabled hearing is a real language, with its specific syntactic and lexical morphology, and not only a mode of expression of the spoken language. There are more than 30 recognized in the world and to date, as the Russian rapporteur has said well, we are the only country, together with Luxembourg, which has not yet recognized the sign language since the 2006 UN Convention in New York, ratified by our country in 2009. The recognition of the language is essential to guarantee everyone full access to the sacred right of each one to express himself in his own language. We know that this is not only a symbolic fact, but also a substantive right, which can no longer be postponed in time. On television, as in the major public events, the interpreter LIS is increasingly present, demonstrating a social sensitivity that has grown over time, to which the institutions must now adapt, filling the delay that has come to be created. The measure that we are debating today, which I hope we will approve, has had a complex path. It is absolutely positive that a united text has been reached, demonstrating that this is an issue on which political forces must find convergence. The work that has been done in the Commission is very important and it must be acknowledged to all its members, to the presenters of the legislative proposals, to all the colleagues who have worked on the measure, but above all to the rapporteur, Mr Russo, who, thanks also to a strong sensitivity, has been able to make a virtuous synthesis of all the issues that have emerged. It was a work of great commitment, which involved many associations and companies operating in the sector and which collected the testimonies, requests and valuable contribution of experience. I want to thank, in particular, the Deaf National Authority and all the realities that have collaborated, also with me, and guarantee on the territory the possibility for the deaf to lead a better life, express the potential and enhance the skills, the commitment and the talent. I have no doubt in saying that without them, without these prepared and motivated realities, today our society could guarantee very little. I say this with knowledge of the case, having closely followed the valuable and competent activity of the Trento section of the Deaf National Authority. The result of this work is in the completeness of the measure, which really addresses a plurality of issues all important. For reasons of time, I go for titles: prevention and early identification of deafness phenomena; psychological support interventions; the establishment of specialised centres; increasing accessibility through new technologies and the development of dedicated software and hardware; universal accessibility to environments, buildings, institutions and artistic and cultural events; advertising awareness campaigns; access to emergency and prompt intervention services and public administration; availability of interpreting services and training courses for interpreters; availability of support teachers and communication assistants in schools; access to university and post-university education; access to public transport. My hope is that, once the text has been adopted, it will be done quickly with the implementing decrees, but above all, that the necessary resources, not provided for in the measure under consideration, will be found in order to effectively guarantee a right that is sacrosanct and enshrined in the Constitution. There are so many projects that need to be supported. I have mentioned only a few of them, such as the guide of the Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art in Trento and Rovereto, which I hope can be taken as a reference for cultural projects throughout the national territory. For too many years, people with hearing disabilities have been denied full citizenship rights and the measure under consideration is an important step towards finally filling this guilty delay. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Ghilarza, of Ghilarza, in the province of Oristano, who are attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u15	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u16	Mr President, first of all, I would like to stress that deafness is a sensory disability and must therefore be treated with an appropriate health protocol: neonatal audiological screening, early diagnosis, adequate and timely prostheticisation and speech therapy. The Italian sign language no longer makes sense to exist in institutions for deaf people, but it is not clear how they continue to finance themselves. Already this summer, through the decree-law for the Mezzogiorno, a financing of one million euros has been guaranteed for the functioning of atypical institutions and the correct development of the cognitive processes of deaf children (as it is written in the amendment), for the benefit of the deaf institutions of Rome, Milan and Palermo of which, therefore, only one out of three, is in the South and two are closed: the institute of Milan, which lived for one hundred and sixty-three years, was closed in 1994 and the institute of Palermo, which has been transformed into a day educational center with school assistance and has nothing to do with didactics. Since 1 September 2000, 17 years ago, the State Institute for the deaf, which is based here in Rome, has exhausted its school activity in the strict sense; it has not received public funds for a long time and is likely to close. After years of commissioning, it seems that its end is now marked. All this in order to reiterate that this bill, although it has had several and numerous modifications, continues to be, in the light of the new sub-amendments presented by the rapporteur, a mere indication of the possible actions that the Government should do; indications and recommendations of program, which have nothing to do with a real commitment to guarantee inclusion or elimination of any kind of barrier that can prevent the deaf or deaf person from being able to act, study, work, in a word live independently, without having to feel different or disabled because he cannot access the services that compete with him by right. We continue to incur the error of considering deafness as a differentiated status, almost to be protected, and not a disability to be faced with an adequate health and speech therapy protocol, thus ending, inevitably, not to offer protection to those who have such disability, but to ensure the permanence of the same diversifying factor. Insufficient economic resources, however, create the conditions for citizens' primary rights, such as the right to health and, in this particular case, the right to early diagnosis, hearing aids, rehabilitation, school support and access to the world of work as a disabled person. There are about 800,000 people with hearing problems in Italy. Of these about 6,400, according to MIUR data, are students attending schools of every order and grade, and not in special institutions, but in public schools. These numbers and above all the nature of this problem should have suggested that work should be based on the more appropriate concept of inclusion rather than on the concept of integration. Children with severe hearing problems since birth are only 0.01 per thousand Italian citizens and over 90 percent of these children with hearing disabilities are born from hearing parents. This means that, if you could correctly prepare all the necessary interventions that are scientifically possible and available today and if you intervene quickly with auditory screening at birth, with prosthesis and with the cochlear implant, with the speech pedics and with all the technical tools available, the child with auditory problems, if well supported, could easily achieve linguistic skills comparable to those of people without hearing problems. The real challenge therefore is precisely this, that of optimizing the resources to the maximum and guarantee efficient and timely routes. For these reasons, in order to ensure the full and effective recognition of the needs of people with hearing disabilities and therefore in order to recognize their full right to social inclusion, it would be necessary for the State not simply to promote, but to guarantee a standard programme of initiatives and services in all regions, in order to ensure the right to health, speech and the activation of virtuous processes in order to guarantee and not only generically promote real equal opportunities. Unified and standardised national plans are needed, articulated at regional level to ensure a level playing field across the national territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u17	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention not only of my fellow Members, but also of the rapporteur and of the Government, to those who, in my opinion, remain unresolved issues of the draft law under consideration. I try to start from the scenario and the effort made by the rapporteur to find a synthesis within positions that distinguish the attempt to guarantee rights in relation to these diseases and that we could basically sum up in two cornerstones: on the one hand, the attempt that for decades, I would say centuries, is being carried out to remedy the problems inherent in deafness and that also converge in an instrument like the sign language and, on the other, the most recent attempts, also linked to the oralist tradition of our country, merged into the adoption of new technologies that normally go under the name of cochlear implants. These two schools of thought, if we want to define them this way, have over time provided to justify measures which, in the legislator's view, in my view, must be held together with common sense and balance in order to be able to provide everyone with respect not only for a right, but also for their own vision of reality. There is no doubt that those who provide to remedy deafness through a cochlear implant conceive evil as deprivation of being. To give an understandable example, those who find themselves in an accident without a leg aim for the prosthesis, because, through that instrument, fills a void that is actually ordering a social measure, civil and rights and is one with the remedy for the pathology. With this measure, called sign language, an interpretative line is unbalanced and a very serious problem arises on the educational level: there are young people, who have already been implanted by children, who do not want to learn sign language, but intend to learn the written and spoken Italian language (a whole this educational profile) as the most appropriate way to respond to their needs. Is it true or is it not true then that by introducing this new type of intervention we are going to create a fracture within the Italian community of the deaf? If that were not the case, there probably would have been an opportunity in the last few decades to agree in Parliament. It would have been found, in the six legislatures that were described by those who intervened before me, a possible point of understanding. In reality, this point of understanding has not been found in this parliamentary term either. Then why take this measure? I suspect that this measure will ultimately result not so much in something that is remedying the right of the deaf, but rather in a measure that is remedying the need of the interpreters of the language of signs to see their rights recognized and therefore to see, within our school and educational system, a space that should in time, because today it does not have the resources to do so, to find an answer to their needs. [[Applause from Senators Malan and Rizzotti]] For this reason, I would urge the rapporteur to give further thought to the fact that the approach of the measure safeguards the right and the vision of all, namely that thousands and thousands of families have looked at the introduction of new technologies in a way that is linked to the state's legal system. Is it easier to address the problem of deafness with decisive interventions that remove the figure of the deaf from that of a person assisted all his life (theme of the cochlear implant) or is instead to prefer an emphasis that is also cultural, which is both openness but also closure to the reasons of the world for full integration? I urge these issues not to make a political polemic, Allow me. For my part, there is simply the will to maintain together the reasons of people who, wounded by life, can find in their relationship with the institutions full acceptance of their own needs and fundamental rights. I hope that the rapporteur, making further efforts, as he seems to want to say through some of his amendments, will pose a further problem. However, I do not give up on a question that is further straightforward. This measure will perhaps leave the Senate after this vote to arrive at the House, where it risks being, once again, yet another flag measure that does not solve an issue, but will leave behind in the next legislature of everything that, in terms of budget and full integration, continues to manifest its reasons. [[Senator Razzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u20	Mr President, I feel I have to give an answer to my fellow Members who have spoken today and also to the debate that this House saw taking place in May - as has been mentioned - at the first reading of the measure under discussion. In the hope, which I have repeated several times in this House, that we will see this process concluded around a measure that can be voted on by the majority of our colleagues, in a very transversal way than everyone else's belongings, I would like to reiterate once again that this draft law is designed to give answers to the whole world of the Italian deaf, even in its various representations which, as has been understood in the debate, have been echoed in several speeches. Let us not hide the fact that this measure has not been approved in the last six legislatures also because the world of the Italian deaf has expressed very different positions and politics has struggled to find a synthesis of them. I really would like this Parliament, even in its last few weeks, to have the ambition of finally closing this path in order to open another one, because this text will not be decisive nor will it want to be, because I believe that there are conditions, perhaps displeased with one another a little, to make a total step forward. In this regard, even in response to the request of my colleague, Mario Mauro, one of the amendments I have tabled is a very simple one, but which I consider emblematic, which changes the title of this bill by removing the explicit reference to the language of signs, which is also at the origin of the measure. I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr De Poli, Mr Favero, Mr Pagliari, Mr Council and Mr Aiello, who, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, deposited measures relating to sign language and not only that. However, also to facilitate work and an overall consensus, I would like to remove any veil of doubt by saying that the draft law under discussion applies to promoting the citizenship rights of all the deaf Italians, in full recognition of the positions of each one, as this Parliament must do. We have said this over and over again and I repeat it again today: one of the cornerstones of the measure under consideration is the autonomous right of choice of Italian families and deaf people. The right to choose a path of reeducation, rehabilitation and full inclusion, which best adapts to the sphere of each. All those we have heard during the many hearings that have taken place have repeated that there are no two equal deaf people. I therefore believe that it would be wrong, even from the legislative point of view, to imagine imposing a single path for everyone. If this bill goes to broaden the rights of citizenship and to offer tools that allow the community to make available also the talents of those with serious disabilities, I want to reiterate - without controversy - that I think it is absurd to say, as I have heard, that it is a measure for one association rather than another. That is not the case and, in our own way, we have displeased each other. This measure does not defend the rights of LIS language interpreters, but tries to listen. I would like to make this clear, ladies and gentlemen. Over the years and months that have passed, many of us have had the opportunity to meet this reality personally and directly, listening to the requests of deaf people in our country. It is to them that we must respond today, beyond any approach and any vision that legitimately, even with a pinch of ideology, we carry behind us with respect to what we have heard within the deaf community. They are right then, at the same time, my colleague Panizza and my colleague Council, who recalled that LIS is fully a language and is no longer a gestural instrument, as in the past, having its own grammar, its own morphology and its own syntax. At the same time, Mr Serra - and the two aspects are together - has well remembered our concern, which is very clear and repeated in the bill and which I want to call with affection to my colleague Rizzotti, repeated and written in a very strong way in the text, which is to ensure that, from the beginning, our country makes available to the deaf all the most advanced instruments. Let us think, for example, of neonatal screening, which, although provided for by the essential levels of assistance, is today the privilege only of some regions: remembering it and predicting it today helps us to strengthen this prediction. We know in fact that, as we have repeated several times, today, in the vast majority of cases, even if not in all, a child who in the very first days of life is diagnosed deaf deep, through the path of reeducation and rehabilitation can achieve extraordinary results, almost comparable to those born with the extraordinary gift of hearing. But we must be frank and say that, alas, in this country, there are tens of thousands of deaf people who have not been able to enjoy this privilege, have not been able to have neonatal screening and have not been able to see the technology with the cochlear implant, people who may not be able to enjoy the achievements of science and what the study of stem cells will bring in the coming years. We must therefore give an answer today to those who ask us to recognize the sign language because it is the instrument with which it exercises its citizenship and its way of being the protagonist in society and in its community. Mr President, I would like to say again to Mr Rizzotti that we have a duty to adopt the best possible law today, to discuss everything and to compare ourselves with the different ideas that we have heard outside of here, but in no way have we the right to decide what is the instrument by which the Italian deaf can and must express themselves. It is not a right of politics to decide whether sign language or oralism are the instrument through which the Italian deaf can express themselves. We have experienced - and I am sorry that some of those who have spoken have never set foot in the school of Cossato and in the school of Magarotto - and seen how bilingualism really is today an advanced point of view from a didactic and pedagogical point of view. And that's what a senator says that in normal life he teaches pedagogy. So it is not a return to the past, a ghettoization or closure within the idea of the deaf as belonging to a community to be protected and kept isolated. Finally, I have to say that it hurt me to hear what was perhaps just a joke of my colleague Rizzotti: to imagine, without having met those boys, that teaching in the same classes, to normodated children and deaf children, the LIS and the Italian language, at the same time, and how to give crutches to children who can walk normally, really means lack of sensitivity, because those who have met those children, even normodotized children, know what extraordinary pedagogical value it has had for them even a gesture of approach towards their less fortunate companions [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] , knows what advantage, even from the cognitive and linguistic point of view, the specialists tell us there is against the ability to assume and govern different messages. I really hope that this is a bill able to respond to the requests made: Saturday in Padua there were 6,000 deaf people in the square, to celebrate the world day of the deaf, who asked us to recognize the Italian language of the signs, because we are one of the last European countries to do so and because they want it as a sign of recognition, not of the way they express themselves, but of what they are, today, within our community. I really hope today's vote will help us give an important signal and make our country take a step forward. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u21	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are about to adopt is the result of a long work, which has involved several parliamentary groups, with the common aim of reaching a unified text, aware of the need to do quickly, since our country is among the last in Europe to adopt a law on this issue. As has already been explained by the rapporteur, Senator Russo, whom I warmly thank, this measure aims to recognise the rights of deaf people, with hearing disabilities in general and deafening, in order to break down the barriers of communication and understanding, promoting accessibility to tools and services aimed at social participation and inclusion, education, training and work: these are in fact the purposes of Article 1 of the draft law under consideration. One of the fundamental objectives of the measure is to broaden the opportunities of its recipients as well as their families, providing for the possibility of choosing on the modalities of communication. I would like to point out that during the numerous hearings held in the Commission, there has been a general appreciation for the parliamentary initiative, even if there are differences, which are useful in contradictory matters. In fact, the text before us today has taken on board some of the comments that have emerged in that forum, confirming the positiveness of the comparison. The Government has made a strong contribution to the parliamentary measure throughout the whole process, aware of the urgency of providing answers. These are issues that I personally have a great deal to do with. Before concluding, another aspect that I would like to highlight is that the draft law under consideration provides for the intervention by various administrations, in various ways involved, to bear witness to the aim of building a fabric that is as homogeneous as possible, on which to graft the measures necessary to guarantee these people full social inclusion. As the previous speaker said, this is not a symbolic fact, but certainly a substantive right. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u23	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I would also like to say that the Presidency declares amendment 10,102 inadmissible, limited to the part relating to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, as well as sub-amendments 1,300/2, 1,301/1, 1,301/5, 1,301/6, 1,301/7, 1,301/8, 1,301/9, 3,300/1, 3,300/2 and 5,300/6, as they are intended to amend the text of the bill and not the amendment to which they refer. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,101. As I have been able to say in other amendments, tabled with some colleagues, if the law is to be operational it cannot be proposed to promote. Law No 104 of 1992 guarantees and certainly the difference is considerable, because guaranteeing means ensuring economic commitment and support; promoting is a very good intention that remains in the air. Amendment 1,103, without prejudice to the teaching of spoken and written Italian, is intended to guarantee all forms of increased alternative communication. Thus, it is important to treat environmental acoustics in schools, cinemas, offices, museums, courts for all persons and students prostheticized. For example, in England there is an infrared system and electromagnetic waves, just so that people carrying prosthetics are not forced to increase the volume, with some discomfort of their prosthesis, in order to eliminate background noise. What prosthetic people ask is to have the wi-fi we normally have and that should always be there, not even at a great cost. Amendment 1,106 states: The Republic shall take appropriate measures to ensure that every deaf minor acquires and uses the spoken and written Italian language. I do not know why Senator Russo wanted to specify that it is not a right of politics to affect the free choice of parents, since politics has already affected the free choice of parents, for example with the decree-law on vaccines. Does a parent rightly force himself to vaccinate his child, to his or her care, and cannot be forced into a parent who unconsciously chooses sign language for his or her child rather than alternative methods of communication that make him or her feel normal? And I'm gonna let you do that in 2017? I don't think so. [[Applause from Senator Mandelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u25	Mr President, in explaining sub-amendment 1,301/3, amending the rapporteur's amendment, I would like to reiterate that it is important to delete the reference to the spoken language. In fact, it is not only a matter of language, but of everything that concerns the possibility of communication. The concept of communication is extended to everything, not specifically related to the spoken language. Therefore, with reference to the rapporteur's amendment, I propose replacing the words: "every form of communication alternative to spoken language" with the following: "every alternative form of communication": there are millions of ways of communicating, even simply not looking at a person as he speaks. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u26	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u27	Mr President, I should like to add a brief comment for the Members who have spoken: many amendments, as will be seen from the decisions of the 5th Commission, have been considered inadmissible or impervious. I myself took it upon myself, because, as this is a law of principles, which had to return to the 5th Commission precisely in order to prevent additional expenditure from being provided for in relation to those already provided for in other laws, it is clear that there was a high risk of rejection, as has been said, so it was not the rapporteur's ill will, but an objective difficulty. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1,300. I call on the authors to withdraw all the other amendments, otherwise the opinion will be rejected. I also withdraw the amendments to my signature which have been declared inadmissible, namely 1,301 and 1,302. Finally, I would like to express a favourable opinion on the agenda G1,100, with a rewording, i.e. adding after the words: "the Government is committed" the words: "it is to consider whether it is appropriate to do so."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u28	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u29	Of course, the withdrawal of the rapporteur's amendments also undermines the relevant sub-amendments. Are there any colleagues who are in favour of voting on the impervious amendments? Senator Rizzotti? Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). No, ma'am, we don't insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. I would also ask for the separate vote on the individual points of amendment 1,105.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u30	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senators Granaiola and Dirindin. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300/1, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,300/2 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1,300, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1,101 to 1,104 are impervious. Amendments 1,301/1 and 1,301/5 to 1,301/9 are inadmissible. Amendments 1,301/2, 1,301/3 and 1,301/4 have fallen. Amendment 1,301 has been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment No 1,105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, on which a request for a split vote has been made. If we do not make any comments, we shall proceed in this direction. Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of point (a) (1) of amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of point (a) (2), amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of point (a) (3), amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of point (a) (4), amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of letter b) of amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,302/1, 1,302/2 and 1,302/3 have fallen. Amendment 1,302 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 1,106 and 1,107 are impervious. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,108, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Favero, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.100? FAVERO (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u33	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted against in the previous vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u36	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to clarify. Were Amendments 1,106 and 1,107 previously declared improcable?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u37	In view of the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution, Senator Rizzotti did not insist on voting, they were declared inadmissible. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There is, of course, an opinion before the opinion given on 3 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Today, almost all the amendments have been declared inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u38	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u39	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u42	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u43	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would ask if anyone would insist on voting on the impervious amendments. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We move on to amendment 2.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senators Mauro Mario and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u44	Mr President, I welcome Amendments 3,102 and 3,300. On all the other amendments to Article 3, I would like to call on the authors to withdraw, otherwise the opinion would be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u45	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u46	I would ask if anyone would insist on voting on the impervious amendments. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr President, we insist. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). So do we, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u49	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u50	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 3,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators, up to the word 'guarantee'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3101 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,102 tabled by Senators Dirindin and Granaiola. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,103 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 3104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3,300/1 and 3,300/2 are inadmissible. Let us turn to Amendment 3,300/3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,300/3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word 'guarantee'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 3300/4 to 3300/10 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,300, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u51	Mr President, first of all I would like to mention Amendment 4101, which seeks to give equal dignity to all people with hearing disabilities. We know that advanced technologies are available today: there is, for example, the talking glove for the PC, especially for the deaf; there are projects such as the phone amplified for the deaf or the project Parloma. All these alternative forms of communication should be protected just as well as recognition of sign language. I would also like to highlight Amendment 4104, which guarantees all these scientific and technological innovations, since the interpretation of the LIS is already guaranteed by Law No 104 of 1992 at school, office, court, RAI, university and for school and work integration. Amendment 4107 aims to reiterate things already guaranteed: the interpreter can have it who wants it, but those who do not want it, for example the disabled prosthetic, have the right to assistance, such as the improvement of acoustics.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u52	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u53	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to call for the withdrawal of all the amendments to Article 4, otherwise I am against it, with the exception of amendment 4106 on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u55	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u56	I would ask if anyone would insist on voting on the impervious amendments. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, we ask that they be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. We are also asking for the separate vote on amendment 4.103: a first vote until the word "guarantees" and a second vote on the remaining part of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4102 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and on which a request for a separate vote has been made. As there is no unanimity, I put the request for a split vote to the vote. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.103, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since it has been requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4104, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators, up to the words 'analogues devices'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4105 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4106 tabled by Senators Dirindin and Granaiola. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4107, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.07, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u57	Mr President, I call for all the amendments referred to in Article 5 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u58	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u59	I would ask if anyone would insist on voting on the impervious amendments. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, we insist.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u62	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u63	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us turn to Amendment 5,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,100, tabled by Senators Mauro Mario and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,101, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 51.02, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5,300/1 to 5,300/5 have fallen. Amendment 5,300/6 is inadmissible. Amendments 5,300/7 to 5,300/11 have fallen. Amendment 5,300 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 5,103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,103 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Amendment 5.04 tabled by Senator Favero. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.05 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5106, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5106, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.07 tabled by Senator Favero. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.108 tabled by Senator Favero. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.109 tabled by Senator Serra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.100, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u64	Mr President, I call for the amendments tabled to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u65	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u69	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment tabled by us, which deals with the statement of principle contained in Article 6, only that it puts on the same level the various techniques that can facilitate communication for people with hearing difficulties. What we see in this bill is precisely the fact that it chooses one mode over the other. Now, since the law does not allocate a single euro, it is believed to have little scope. There is no doubt that there is little scope for this, because, without an appropriation, it is difficult to do anything. However, many of these statements will not be without consequences, even if they are positive. Article 5, which we voted on just now (but also Article 6), provides for all interventions to be made within the framework of the resources already allocated. Well, in the context of these resources (and this is the thesis we have carried out throughout the discussion), it would be desirable to have a promotion of the various types of intervention, not only of sign language, but also of the other alternative methods of communication, such as lip reading and especially early diagnosis and cochlear implants. That is what should have been done, if we look at the problem of people with hearing difficulties as a whole. There is an amendment that would have been logical to find here, whereas it was included in a decree-law; this amendment allocated EUR 100,000 and, with the appearance of allocating them to several institutions, it actually allocated them to one institution only. But that is not the principle with which action should be taken. We believe that interventions in favour of people with hearing difficulties should be adopted on a wide-ranging basis and allow for the choices that are prevalent. We have received messages from leaders of associations of families and people with hearing difficulties, in which we are told that we do well to move forward on this request. We cannot put aside the most modern techniques, which allow people born with serious damage or even without hearing, to have a life exactly like that of other people, thanks to cochlear implants, which allow a feeling equal to that of those who do not have these problems. So how do we put this aside and give priority to one sector? Very well, we have nothing against sign language, but this cannot be the only way. Each of us knows so many people who have not taken this path; in the case of some people we did not even know that they had hearing difficulties, because they communicate exactly as we do. So that is the point and that is the reason for our abstention on this article, our vote in favour of the amendment that we are about to vote on and our abstention in general on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u70	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6,101 tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u71	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Technical Trade Institute (Aterno-Manthonè) in Pescara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u72	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u73	Mr President, I would like to call for a withdrawal. Otherwise, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u74	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u78	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to amendment 7,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, only to point (b). As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u79	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u80	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u83	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I have not quite understood the rapporteur's opinion: he calls for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. And what good is there to withdraw an amendment? Let me understand: why should I withdraw an amendment on which the opinion is negative? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If the opinion were positive, the rapporteur would not invite us to withdraw. SANTANGELO (M5S). Then why pick it up? Let's just say we're against it. We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u84	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to amendment 8,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, only to point (a). Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,101, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u86	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u87	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,101, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u88	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of amendments, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u89	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u92	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us turn to Amendment 10,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,101, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10,102 is inadmissible only for the part referring to the House and the Senate. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,103, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u93	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 11,300. On the remaining amendments, I make a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u94	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u95	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,300/1, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u98	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I did not quite understand why Amendment 11,300/1 was rejected, since it does not impose any burdens on the State, nor is there an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution. I simply believe that, when the Minister for Labour and Social Policy is consulted, it would certainly not have been a cost to include the Ministry of Health, but a greater protection than they say they want to protect.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u99	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 11,300, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 11 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u100	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u101	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u102	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,100, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,101, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,102, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,103, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u103	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 13,100 and against Amendment 13,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u104	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,100, tabled by Senators Granaiola and Dirindin. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u108	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, that proposed by this amendment is indeed a cost-free measure, so much so that there are no interventions by the Budget Commission; it would also be to go in the desired direction, i.e. towards neonatal screening and speech therapy, in order to stimulate the regions to intervene in that direction, within the competence which the Constitution gives them in relation to the provision of health services. Neonatal screening allows extremely valid interventions that, the more they are done early and the more they are valid until they achieve 100% effectiveness compared to communicative capabilities for people with these kinds of problems. It would cost nothing to write it, it would be a stimulus to the Regions to intervene in this sense, but obviously the intentions of this bill are mainly others. They are certainly good, but they go above all towards certain operators, who go all the respect, but who come second to the needs of the children who are born with these problems. That should be the target. We have written this in Amendment 13,101 for the umpteenth time, but apparently the common objective is not this, but that of creating a small chain of people who carry out a very important supporting work, i.e. interpreters and teachers of the Italian sign language. I remember, however, that the needs to be met are those of people with hearing problems and not those of people who should do support work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u109	Colleagues, I have some concerns about Amendment 13,101 with regard to the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u112	Mr Russo, rapporteur. Mr President, in order to overcome this impasse, I would like to reassure Senator Malan that in Article 3 (1) there is an exhaustive reference to neonatal screening, as I have said extensively in the report. Amendment 13,101 is therefore completely redundant.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u113	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,101, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 13 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to the amendments to the title, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u114	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment Tit.300 and against all the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u115	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u118	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I have consulted the rapporteur and I welcome his request to maintain a broader title. I therefore withdraw Amendment No Tit.300/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u119	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 300/2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No Tit.300/2, tabled by Senator Serra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 300/3 tabled by Senators Granaiola and Dirindin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 300, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments Tit.100 and Tit.101 are absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u122	DI GIACOMO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, fellow Senators, that the Senate Assembly has decided to discuss rules to ensure the social inclusion of deaf people, with hearing disabilities in general and deafening, removing barriers to understanding and communication, can only appear to be a positive fact. What is needed, however, from the outset, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that the use of sign language does not appear to us the only means, and not even the best way, to achieve this aim. The use and recognition of LIS does not exhaust all possible tools already made available by medical and scientific research. This was discussed for a long time in the Commission during the numerous hearings held with industry experts and representatives of associations. The measure, as mentioned above, aims to guarantee rights and protection to deaf citizens with hearing disabilities in general and deaf people. Nothing more noble, except that this equality of rights appears to us to be fully present in the current Italian legal system. In order to achieve these results, the removal of barriers to understanding and communication, i.e. the removal of all potential obstacles to the full development of the person, the effective participation in collective life and access to information, is required. Various forms of promotion of subtitling systems, interpretation services in sign language and tactile sign language and initiatives to promote scientific and technological research in linguistic, pedagogical, didactic, psychological and neuropsychological fields are therefore envisaged from the legislative text before the Assembly. Colleagues, precisely because we completely marry the will to remove the barriers, which still prevent the full participation of citizens with hearing disabilities, deaf and deaf people and precisely because we want to join the useful efforts to support really useful initiatives, we can only express all our doubts about the effectiveness of the measures provided for in this text. We are not certain that the promotion of a sign language and the drive for its spread are the right way to go. Instead, we think that the integration of people with such a disability can and should take place through speech therapy, the use of state-of-the-art prostheses and prevention. The new technologies and techniques for the prevention and early identification of diseases, using every diagnostic intervention that can be used and the support - also economic - for scientific research in this field, are welcome. Our doubts are even more serious if we look at the current proposals for school. The educational age, in fact, concerns a phase of life particularly important for the development of skills able to reduce the communicative differences. The measure provides that the figure of the support teacher, the communication assistant for deaf pupils and the assistant for autonomy and communication for deaf pupils are guaranteed in schools, as well as the figure of the interpreter in LIS and tactile LIS. In the university and postgraduate are used the stenotype, the respeakeraggio, as well as the Italian language of signs and the Italian language of tactile signs. It is precisely with regard to the education sector that we find important problems which, in order to protect and protect the weakest, we can only raise strongly here. The design designed to ensure the social inclusion of deaf and deaf people used a palette of partial colors, not to mention monocolor, reserving a role of exclusivity to the Italian language of signs as a tool to obtain the removal of barriers to understanding and communication. Well, ladies and gentlemen, sign language has its own morphological, syntactic and lexical specificity, but it will never be able to completely replace the Italian language. In fact, the written form is absent in it. Moreover - very important fact - the LIS cannot express a metacognitive language, therefore it guarantees less possibilities for it to be realized in all students, even those with difficulties, meaningful learnings, accompanied by an increase of ability at the cognitive level. This is also shown trivially by the fact that sign language must be continuously integrated with written Italian, dactology, the labial reading proper to spoken language, for example to express scientific or abstract terms, proper names, place names and much more. As I said, focusing all the attention of us legislators, all efforts and resources on sign language seems to us to be a serious limit in itself. On the contrary, it makes us think, ladies and gentlemen, that this measure was not the result of noble intentions, but of other reasons. Why was there no intervention in the measure to support speech therapy, a methodology considered fundamental by medical science, in order to achieve qualified and rehabilitation processes? How come alternative techniques such as word rehabilitation are not considered? Why do parents not be able to freely choose the type of rehabilitation and education to be given? Colleagues, the goals we have set ourselves for social inclusion, total accessibility, removal of barriers, facilitation of understanding and communication cannot be achieved unless we are honest and realistic with ourselves. A rehabilitation path must take account of the reality, that is, that most citizens do not know the sign language and that, therefore, if a child has been taught only this mode of communication, this child, reached adulthood, will have to face a condition of inevitable and dramatic isolation at the time when he will face the world of work and social life. That is why we allow ourselves to note here that the choice to focus interventions on a priority and almost exclusive basis on the use of sign language could be a serious and unforgivable error of assessment. For this reason, although we agree with the intention of this measure and acknowledge the importance of the subject dealt with, we believe that we must cast a vote of abstention, in the hope that this signal can be taken as an opportunity to alter the interventions on the ground. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u125	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, could this be done sooner? I'm sure you do. Could it have been better? That's probably for sure. Could you put in more money? It was probably necessary. To the question whether, then, this is the only valid method to address this problem we have already abundantly answered no, but it is certainly a good start. The idea of pursuing such a measure certainly stems from the need, as we have also said in general discussion, to put 960,000 people - young people, young people or young people - who have difficulties in integrating into society and in having relations with each other. As a Group, we have raised two important problems: the first is education within the school, in order to enable children to interact seriously with their peers; no less important is the issue of occupational inclusion. Sometimes one forgets the problem of lifelong learning that these children, who have a hearing-related difficulty, have. We are always talking about equal opportunities and we are doing so here too. We are talking about full accessibility: it is one of the characteristics that this bill carries on, also with regard to the issue of work stations. Perhaps there is a lack of resources for training courses, as we have already pointed out, and that is certainly true. Special attention has also been paid to maritime, land and air transport stations, such as points where an interpretation service is provided in LIS. These are all the attentions that have been sought to include in the 14 articles of this bill. You have seen very well that there were not many amendments; some have tried to overturn the law, which fortunately did not happen. Keeping the bar straight, the rapporteur, as far as I am concerned, has done a good job and we have been able to arrive at a vote that will not be unanimous (this I did not expect), but that will certainly be important and interesting on a measure that sees, for several months now, the Senate Assembly committed. 18.28 (continued COUNCIL). Mr President, I would simply like to say that the Group of the League will vote in favour of this measure, in the hope that it will be refined, perhaps in the course of its own management and the implementation of the article, in order to ensure that deaf and deaf people are increasingly able to interact with a world that is otherwise completely foreclosed to them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Russian Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u128	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, this is a necessary but at the same time controversial law. It is a necessary law because Italy ratified in 2009 the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that sets out the framework on which to legislate on the protection of the cultural and linguistic identity of deaf people. In particular, according to Article 21 of the Treaty, States must ensure that official activities are accepted and facilitated by persons with disabilities to use sign language and to recognise and promote the use of that language. The ratification of the UN Convention by our country therefore obliges the legislator to issue internal legislation in accordance with the rights and new standards of protection established in it. We're finally doing it. I have also spoken of the controversial law because we are dealing with very fragmented current regulation, which directly or indirectly also deals with deafness and its implications. It has not yet been possible to overcome such a uneven production of legislation because of a debate characterized by different cultural positions, such as those of those who categorically reject the recognition of the Italian sign language as a mere support technique or a mimic-gestural language, or want recognition without, however, wanting to grant protection to aspects of cultural and linguistic identity or, finally, strongly claim recognition of LIS as a minority language. This position, which I supported not only in the light of the Italian ratification of the UN Convention, but above all in the name of the fundamental right of everyone to express himself in his own language - vocal or visual-gestural - and to identify himself with it. I think it is right to remember, in this regard, that the same community of deaf people has divided between supporters of sign language as a natural language for deaf people and those who aim at medical progress and learning the spoken language through technological aids. The deafness is a handicap not immediately recognizable, but it has negative implications in all the social activities of the person, and from the point of view of access to information, services, work, care and health services we are still, unfortunately, very late, because there are too many obstacles such as the lack of specialized professional figures, specific technical equipment, telephone services "bridge" and SMS for emergencies. In short, there is the primary need for the legislator to promote the inclusion of the deaf in social life, helping them to participate in productive and intellectual activity, to facilitate their placement at work, to collaborate with the administrations of the State. In short: the recognition of the Italian sign language can truly become a project of life for the deaf, citizens who are not fully integrated because they have the objective problem of not being able to interact with those who do not know the sign language. All the associations and audit families in the 1st Commission told us to make soon a law that officially recognizes the sign language also in Italy, the last country in Europe to have to take this step again. Today in Italy informants are not officially recognized at professional level and deaf people are often left at the mercy of events, without specialized figures able to relate with them in hospitals, offices or workplaces. The fundamental objective of this law must therefore be the removal of communication barriers and the promotion of the autonomy of individuals, as well as the facilitation of the process of integrating deaf people into modern society. Another important element must also be taken into account, namely that sign language makes it possible to overcome communication difficulties linked to other serious handicaps such as autism. During the hearings, we also learned that there is no scientific evidence that sign language is an obstacle to the learning of spoken language. Therefore, by entering into the substance of the law that we are called to approve, the question to be asked is whether it fully responds to the UN Convention and, above all, whether it meets the requests of the community concerned. From the point of view of the principles, there is no doubt that this is a good law, because it formulates the rights of deaf people and the removal of the barriers of communication through all the instruments aimed at the prevention and care of deafness, recognizes to deaf people the freedom of choice on the modalities of communication, provides early diagnostic interventions for all children born or become deaf, previews the universal accessibility of environments, goods, processes, services and devices, asks the public administration to guarantee the provision of all services in support and integration of the deaf pupil with the presence of the teacher of support, the assistant to the communication, technological aids and other resources and operators that ensure the full participation in the school and extracurricular activities, with the extension of these guarantees also to the university and post-university path. One of the two main innovations introduced, finally, is the institution at the MIUR of the National Register of interpreters of the Italian Sign Language and the other is the institution at the Ministry of Labour of the National Observatory on the condition of children suffering from deafness, representing the main associations. All right, then? After Article 13, which entrusts the Government with the task of monitoring the implementation of the law and preparing sanctions for violations, the last article, which concerns financial invariance, specifies that the implementation of this law must not result in new or greater burdens on public finance. Public administrations shall carry out the activities envisaged with the human, instrumental and financial resources available in accordance with the legislation in force on the date of entry into force of this Act. In conclusion, I would like to say to the rapporteur, Mr Russo, that we have done a great deal of mediation and that we have voted in favour of it, if the good intentions of this bill do not end up clashing with the bitter reality of the total lack of resources. Let's really hope not, because that would be a joke. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u131	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I would like to begin my speech in an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Great Autonomous and Freedom Group by stressing the moral commitment already contained in Article 1 of the draft law: the Republic recognises the rights of deaf people, with hearing disabilities in general and deafening, by promoting the removal of barriers to understanding and communication that limit the full development of the person and the effective participation in collective life. It seems to me that this is a summary of the commitment of this House and that of the House of Deputies to pay attention to an almost submerged world, which, of course, has been waiting for years for extraordinary attention because contact with the weaker sections of the country must be resumed and Parliament can only find a favourable opportunity, as on this day, to approve with a very large majority a measure that will be useful, at least, to mark paths of civilization with regard to the hearing and visual handicap. It seems useful to me, among other things, also to point out, again in the second paragraph of Article 1, that the Republic protects, supports and promotes all instruments aimed at the prevention and care of deafness and deafness, as well as technological instruments for overcoming or reducing the conditions of disadvantage as defined in subsequent articles. It seems to me, Mr President, that there is a little bit of a sense of the law here, especially when it comes to art, culture, leisure and transport for the people who carry this handicap. It seems to me that guided tours in the Italian language of signs, video guides, the creation of accessible explanatory panels, technological applications and everything that can improve the usability of activities related to sport, culture and leisure are factors to be highlighted and emphasized with great positivity. The same applies to the transport sector, which we know is the weak side, the real handicap for those affected by these diseases, namely the possibility of moving with certain facilities. LIS can also intervene in this area by facilitating people's logistics, for example by highlighting public transport operating systems and security in public transport, especially with regard to emergencies, which need to be communicated through LIS and subtitled. Mr President, it seems to me that in this area, the application of new information technologies in the fight against hearing and visual disabilities of humanity can unsuspectingly reconcile the Internet, with its semantic pitfalls, its illusions of extreme simplification of knowledge and skills, with humankind and particularly with people with hearing disabilities and with people with visual disabilities. It is in this field, in fact, that science, technology and technology can carry out their benefits for humanity as a whole. Alas, the availability and resources that generally support and connotate this bill are not much, and here we call on the Government to make a further effort to put its hand on the wallet and make additional resources available to these categories of disabled people to implement, guaranteeing these services to the whole population, a principle of solidarity and efficiency. In fact, the bill aims to break down barriers and obstacles to integration, which are currently of a physical, psychological, moral and cultural nature. May I finish by reminding you of the amazing emotion of a national anthem, the hymn of Mameli, sung in sign language. When we had the images before our eyes, we were all amazed by the efficiency: almost a sense of alienation. It is another world and this world must be absolutely elaborated and perceived also by people who do not have this handicap. Equally extraordinary is the memory of the film "Lezioni di piano" by Australian director Jane Campion, who tells us how extraordinary that world is made of silences, but also of deep emotions. With these sentiments, I declare the LAG Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u134	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Mr. President, the Art Group. 1-MDP will vote in favour of this measure, because after so many debates, referrals and agendas, it is necessary to put a firm point and do something concrete to protect the rights of people with hearing disabilities in general and deaf people, and promote, in addition to the prevention and care of deafness, the full social inclusion of these people. In this respect, I feel obliged, in addition to making some comments and comments on the final result, to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for the effort they have made to try to harmonise the various currents of thought which have been the subject of a thorough debate and heated debate. While we appreciate the fact that the reference to Article 6 of the Constitution or Article 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which would have led deaf people to be viewed as a minority of languages or as communities of different people, still seems to us unbalanced the focus on LIS or tactile LIS. We appreciate the fact that Article 3 provides for the promotion of the use of instruments suitable for preventing and early identification of deafness and deafness, such as preventive pregnancy investigations, universal neonatal screening, audiological diagnosis and paediatric eye diagnosis, also for the purpose of appropriate early hearing and eye prostheses, cochlear implantology, as essential levels of performance. However, we cannot fail to point out that the actual financial invariance of the measure makes it a simple declaration of intent and that it will not be easy for the administrations concerned to implement the provisions contained in the draft law. It would have been important to promote all forms of increased and alternative communication without constantly quoting LIS or tactile LIS. However, we will vote in favour because, above all, the measure provides for the freedom of choice of deaf people and their families about the ways of communication, the educational paths and the aids to be used to achieve the full development of the person and his/her full social inclusion. We will vote in favour because the text finally talks about inclusion and no longer about integration, overcoming a model focused only on the deficit of the person and respecting the principles of non-discrimination, equal opportunities, autonomy and independence. I avoid repeating comments already made by many colleagues, for example about the activation of mixed classes of deaf and deaf students or about financial coverage, but I think it is necessary to ask the Government to issue implementing regulations as soon as possible and to find the necessary resources if we want to give a real content to this measure and respond to the expectations of so many people who have waited very long - certainly too long - for something to be done for their effective social inclusion. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u137	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to declare the support of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, with a single note, namely, the passage that this bill finally makes towards the inclusion of groups which are still disadvantaged compared to a majority of associates, which is why we can only be in favour of such an initiative. The issue is typical of the protection of minorities because the problem is not so much the definition of who is a member of minorities; there is nothing more cyclical, more occasional than being a minority: everyone can be in minority positions, depending on the context and the moment. These are not only ethnic-linguistic, religious and cultural minorities, but also, precisely, minorities such as those we are talking about at this time with reference to the characteristic of expression, and therefore of inclusion within society. This is why it is important not to dwell on definitions, who is part of a certain minority and how groups can be defined, but, especially from the perspective of the legislator, to establish instruments. The draft law that we are about to approve finally makes available tools for which deaf people have waited too long. Of course, there have been many discussions with regard to the validity of the instrument: the rapporteur has reminded them very well, so I will not dwell on them. The point is that without the instruments we know that there is exclusion; with the instrument we can give inclusion, and if there were any measures to be taken, changes to be made, the legislator will have to be ready to test the regulatory effectiveness of the measure on the medium and long term. It is essential to provide for the legal framework within which to fill the inclusion deficit that a particular group, particularly disadvantaged in certain contexts, not just what we are talking about, is facing. For this reason, at last, the forecast of the instrument, despite the interesting objections that have come in this debate and in the previous debates - we know that this instrument is late - may certainly be useful, but it will have to be tested ex post. Therefore, it is important first of all to open the way for the measure and then to be as humble and available as possible when it is necessary to amend it. For the reasons set out above, the vote my Group will be voting for is absolutely and firmly in favour. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u140	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, there is no doubt that the debate we had, which lasted months, has been particularly complicated and has dealt with a rather sensitive issue. I am referring to the issues of disability and inclusion, which we have discussed a great deal in recent years and which we have dealt with during the examination of every law of stability, when - even in this parliamentary term - we have recorded heavy cuts in the social fund. I press all this because it is clear that without resources, there is no right to citizenship and inclusion. Just to clarify who is listening to us, I note that the measure under consideration does not provide for resources. It is no coincidence that Article 14 of the draft law speaks - precisely - of invariance of expenditure for the State. We would then want to ask ourselves what we are talking about. Even in the update note to the DEF that we are preparing to examine in this House, we do not find the necessary resources to supplement the recent cuts that have reduced the National Social Policy Fund to a third, nor the EUR 38 million needed to ensure the care and transport of pupils with disabilities for the school year. The concern is even more unacceptable because there is a lack of resources to guarantee the right to study people with disabilities. By the way, listening to the debate of today and of recent months, we are curious to know what fate they had the funds approved in the famous decree Mezzogiorno in favor of three institutes (those of Rome, Milan and Palermo) mentioned during the general discussion. The forecast of these funds has been cross-cuttingly supported by Senators of the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement and we would be curious to see what happened to these funds, destined to institutions now closed. It is clear that in recent years we could have done so much for the rights of citizenship of deaf, hearing and deaf people. As has been widely said in the general discussion, legislative instruments are of course, beginning with Law No 104 of 5 February 1992. However, it is clear that the political will has been lacking and continues, because, as Senator Russo said, this is a bill of principles. Fortunately, in our country the principles are guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, while what is missing is how they are implemented and what resources are made available to ensure the exercise of rights. For example, during the current parliamentary term we have repeatedly tabled amendments to finance auditory screening at birth, any early diagnostic intervention, a correct health protocol for prosthesis, the cochlear implant, speech therapy, the help of technology to be guaranteed in all regions, with the same quality and technical standard. However, what is written in Article 3 of the measure, which was mentioned by the rapporteur in a controversial tone just now? Once again, the measure under consideration promotes, but does not guarantee, referring to the Regions the possibility of guaranteeing auditory screening. It is true that this is up to the Regions, but it is clear that there is no guaranteed right of opportunity for everyone, because not in all regions it is done. The bill under consideration compared different visions, partly trying to keep them all together. However, as far as we are concerned, the result is a combination of rules that do not take into account what has happened in recent years and the important cultural and social changes also due to the use of important new technologies. If we are talking about citizenship rights, it means that we are talking about equality, inclusion and full implementation of that great manifesto of equality which is precisely Article 3 of our Constitution, that article that allows us to talk about disability and deaf people beyond stereotypes and clichés. It is not possible to consider deaf people as a linguistic minority, because paradoxically the risk of ghettoization would be very high. We are very concerned, for example, with Article 5 on school inclusion, because it is precisely the lack of resources and the referral to local administrations (i.e. those subjected to the most ferocious cuts in welfare) to ensure school inclusion that it is a paradox. There is no record in the law of hiring support teachers and school assistants. The school started very recently and we all know that there are no support teachers, not to mention communications assistants. For example, in my city, in Florence, we have even witnessed a war between the disabled, the so-called war between the poor, because the assistants to communication, in the absence of State resources, are disputed among several children. Senator Russo asked us if we have visited the experiences of excellence. Well, I'm asking Senator Russo if he's been attending Italian state schools lately, because there's a serious issue about this and disability. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and LN-Aut Groups and the Senators Mussini and Rizzotti]] Mr Russo, rapporteur. I've got four kids! PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Of course, freedom of choice must also be guaranteed to those who choose LIS to communicate; this is a protection that Law 104 guarantees. We ask you to be careful not to institutionalise only this path and not to limit the possibility of hearing disabled people in order to guarantee the many opportunities. The deafness is not the same for all: 85-90 percent of deaf births are born from deaf parents and many deaf people have become deaf after the acquisition of the language, even in adulthood. And all these people don't use LIS. Of course, we consider monitoring to be positive, to be carried out also within the National Observatory on the condition of people with disabilities; the working group within the observatory can help to overcome the limits of this law, especially in the implementation phase. However - I repeat - the greatest limit of this law is the lack of resources. We have listened and we have seen that article 9 of this law, for example, promotes the accessibility of artistic heritage. But again this time everything is returned to the resources of the local authorities and we must note - after listening to Senator Panizza - that unfortunately many Italian regions do not possess the resources of the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. We are happy with this great experience at Mart, inaugurated a few days ago, but we would like that guarantee to be guaranteed in all regions and to all people with hearing disabilities. This refers once again to the regions and local authorities, it is a bit like saying that we have made a law of principles and that we will then see what happens. In short, we would have liked a guarantee of the right to citizenship and not just its promotion. Children who will be born deaf will be able to reach a linguistic competence like that of the deaf and the deaf should no longer be forced to gesticulate in order to be understood. Over the past 20 years, great progress has been made and, if there really were resources, the choice of LIS could remain a limited experience; this should have been the real objective of the law. Once again, after so many words, the slogans remain; instead, with the involvement of researchers, professionalism and associations, it could have helped to modernise the application of a law that, as far as we are concerned, looks back to thirty years ago. For all these reasons, the Italian Left will abstain. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u143	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, the draft law before us is yet another one which deals with issues of disability and integration and which comes to Parliament, however, empty of its main meaning, to create inclusion and avoid divisions between those who can afford state-of-the-art facilities and those who, on the other hand, have to be content with short-sighted and tiny regional resources when they are there. There is still an error in considering deafness as a differentiated status, almost to be protected, and not a disability to be faced with appropriate health protocols. We have seen that in the text of the bill the Ministry of Health is not even mentioned. It is therefore the case that economic resources are not sufficient, that the conditions are not created so that the citizens' primary rights, such as the right to health, are truly guaranteed, and all this only creates divisions and differentiations, but absolutely does not include them. Even today, neonatal audiological screening is guaranteed, with non-homogeneous protocols, in less than half of the Italian regions. In some regions deafness is diagnosed after two years of the child. The results in preverbal deafness, with equal hearing loss, are better when the time between the onset of hearing loss and the restoration of its function is minimal. The concept of "promoting" is repeated very often and with roboating tones in the bill, while the concept of "guaranteeing" is not used; on the contrary, all the amendments that were asked to move from "promoting" to "guaranteeing." Especially when it comes to working in schools, on the topic of the professionalism of teachers, why does not an emphasis be placed on specific graduation courses? In fact, a support teacher can be perfectly prepared to work with deaf children, but this is not the case. We continue to stall and not provide support teachers; we continue not to insert what is needed to ensure that a school is truly inclusive and functional. The difference between the concept of promoting and guaranteeing is that in the first case you are willing to commit to achieving a result, while in the second you simply ensure that the result is achieved. This measure has certainly improved compared to the initial text and the efforts and direction taken are certainly appreciated. However, we believe that an opportunity has been missed to intervene decisively in order to better address the problems of people with hearing disabilities. The objective should be to allow, even to the deaf - any deaf person, in any city of this country - their role as a citizen, with a right, that is, to be a citizen of the world, without having to feel disabled in any way because there are no communication systems. It must not be the deaf person to worry about taking paths that allow him to be included, but it must be the State that guarantees real inclusion. For all this the 5 Star Movement Group will abstain from voting. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u146	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, the People's Area-Centrist Group for Europe will vote in favour of this bill. Every time Parliament discusses people with disabilities with difficulties and places themselves at a level of social inclusion, it is good: it is good for Parliament itself, it is good for sociality and it improves the environment in which we live. This is a very important measure. We do not want to go into the matter, because we have already done so in the relevant bodies, but we want to thank the rapporteur and the Government, because it has been a very complex and difficult process. I would also like to thank the Budget Commission, which wanted to see it clear on this issue and wanted to ensure proper coverage, so that the measure did not remain a dead letter. We are therefore pleased to be able to vote in favour of the draft law. We know that within the world of deafness there are different sensibilities, but today we have addressed the issue with a spirit of great collegiality. We must therefore ask all people with disabilities in the deafness sector to understand each other, but to do this we must talk and to talk we must listen to each other. Therefore, from this point of view, we believe that this text can be a good tool, a good law to overcome disparities and situations of difficulty. We shall therefore vote in favour of this draft law. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u149	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have come to the final vote on this draft law, which has begun almost in an orderly fashion, as I recall in February last year in the 12th Commission. I would also like to ask the Members concerned to read the Commission's opinion because, compared with the draft legislation presented, the basic text adopted by the 1st Commission has modified and given equal dignity to many concepts that were previously almost debilitated. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for their work and for having accepted significant improvements in a text that has involved and involves all of us emotionally. I also thank him for changing the title of the measure, which is now the following: It is a framework law on the citizenship rights of deaf people, with hearing disabilities in general and deaf people. Many times in this House during the general debate I have heard that the shame of Italy, which had not yet recognized the LIS, as well as Luxembourg, was finally removed: it was injustice, neglect and a serious matter. Do you really think that Luxembourg, which has the highest per capita income in all European countries (100,000 euros per person per year) did not want to recognise a right or that it may not have invested resources in place of good intentions (it has been said that this is a law of principle)? Today, in fact, in almost all cases deafness is a deficit that can be overcome thanks to prevention, early diagnosis, early prostheticization and speech therapy. We even have experimental gene therapy for the rebirth of ciliate cells, studies of Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard medical school to return, for example, hearing in Usher's syndrome, which is a rare genetic disease, but for this very reason it should be recognized early. With Law 104 of 1992 we have been at the forefront of Europe in order to protect and guarantee (not to promote) the rights of disabled people, including hearing rights. Do you think that when in 2006, in order to recognize the rights of people with disabilities in relation to the promotion of sign language, the UN referred to countries such as Italy and Luxembourg or to countries of Asia, Africa or South America where LIS is the only way to communicate? I also believe that we should promote a single sign language; the WHO should promote this initiative, so that all people with hearing disabilities can understand themselves wherever they go, if they have not had the opportunity to have sophisticated prostheses or cochlear implants, which in Italy in the necessary cases are provided by our health system, even with its criticalities. I have something to say about free choice. In fact, although it has been said that it is not a political argument, that politics does not have to choose, it seems to me that for the decree-law on vaccines it was politics, a very fair health policy, that forced the vaccination of their children. Perhaps not everyone in this House knows that a child with hearing disabilities will never really be bilingual, because there are two methods with different feedback, visual and auditory. If the visual is more comfortable, the acquisition of the verbal language will be compromised for him and the evolutionary ability, as demonstrated by scientific studies, the scientific societies of audiology, foniatria and otorinolaryngology. I would hope in the near future where there are no bilingual classes, but children who no longer need sign language. A child who no longer needs the interpreter. There are already many interpreters. I've seen a lot of interpreting schools for LIS on the Net, and maybe thinking about real training wouldn't be too bad. Rightly, they all ask for a job and a law, such as the one on our examination, to put them in the school and in the public offices. Perhaps it would be better to reinterpret, for example, with training as a support teacher, as an assistant to communication. It has already been recalled that the tutors of the so-called good school are not getting much success, given the appeals of desperate parents. And that would be another subject to consider. It is right to provide interpreters for those who need them, for example, the elderly, or for those who have not had an early diagnosis and are in a state of deafness. However, there is already Law 104 of 1992 which guarantees to those who use the LIS, the interpreter at school, in universities and courts, in television broadcasts at the expense of the RAI, the inclusion of school work and communication allowances. It would be essential to pursue the right to preventive health through national and regional plans and, as I have mentioned, the prevention of infectious diseases of the TORCH system in pregnancy. Then I remember the importance of early diagnosis at all birth points in Italy within three months of life. The Health Plan 2011-2013 indicates this as a priority, but it is implemented only in about ten regions. We are then asked for the application of LEAs for early perinatal screening; this is also done with leopard spot and is very serious. It would also be better to have early prostheses and not late implants. It would be necessary to implement logopedists, because they are too few and in some regions almost non-existent; families bear prohibitive costs and massacred movements, traveling even more than 100 kilometers, to have their children followed privately. I still remember the need to implement regional audiological centres which, for example, do not exist in Sardinia. There is a need to treat environmental acoustics in schools, prosthetic students, cinemas, museums, public offices and courts. All this requires resources and, perhaps, colleagues do not remember that in the draft law discussed in this House in May and June, a fund of two million euros was provided for the implementation of Article 3. We know that this fund has disappeared, otherwise the law would no longer have arrived in this House. You can't make a good law at zero cost. So we want another perfect law in intention, but difficult in application, such as the law on autism? Or do we want to talk about the law about after us? Let's be serious. As Forza Italia we discussed the measure at our examination, making improvements, accepted with great sensitivity and spirit of conciliation by the rapporteur, who has certainly mediated between sensitivity and different interests. However, we cannot agree to deliver an empty box, a ratification of a convention to those who face for themselves or, worse, to their children a daily life so painful. A government that finds five billion to deal with the problem of immigration, does not find two million euros, without taking it away from someone else, to improve and expand the rights of disabled hearing people. I would say that precisely because it is a law of principle, as the rapporteur has said, we do not see the need for it. The right to health and citizenship must be guaranteed and not promoted. Law No 104 of 1992 guarantees and does not promote. And why legislate beyond if the deaf person integrates into everyone's school, speaking, reading and studying like everyone else? Why not use these resources to enhance the word with subtitles, for example with the support teacher? Why legislate beyond if the LIS, for those who want it, is already covered by Law No 104 of 1992? For these reasons Forza Italia will abstain in the vote on the measure, but without any political speculation. The sense of our vote and intentions must not be misunderstood. It is not a vote of abstention in order not to recognise or remove the rights of someone, but to guarantee them in practice. The measure will go to the Chamber of Deputies: I hope that the money will be found to make it concrete, active and useful. This abstention is an appeal to the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u152	GIANNINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the text proposed by the 1st Commission and, in my opinion, effectively amended by the House, starting from the title, expresses and favours the full implementation of three fundamental constitutional principles. They have been widely recalled in the rich debate that preceded this final debate and, we hope, for approval. So I just want to recall these three points, which I believe constitute the ethical architecture, as well as political and cultural, of the measure: the right to full social inclusion, the right to the removal of all forms of discrimination, which may hinder the attainment of the dignity of the person, the right to full active participation in the life of the community, in all forms and for all citizens, regardless of their conditions of birth and health: the latter is a particularly significant and innovative point of the bill under consideration. This last principle, ladies and gentlemen, includes in fact in an innovative way and for the first time with reference to people with auditory disabilities in Italian legislation the reference to the right to language, understood in its most modern, qualifying and more important meaning to understand the meaning of this legislative proposal. I refer to the right to language as a fundamental human right and as an instrument that allows - whatever it may be, a natural language or, as in this case, an Italian sign language - to be fully active and interactive within the community. This reference makes the bill not only innovative and not only a step forward within the path already mentioned - also with relevant and appropriate references, last of all by Senator Rizzotti, starting from Law 104 of 1992 - but makes it a decisive step forward. The fight against discrimination and segregation of deaf people encountered and experienced, often, at times in a dramatic way, in their daily life experience - in school, in the workplace and in the lack of use of cultural heritage or of all the manifestations that accompany the life of our society - has been a missing point, which is finally filled in Italian legislation. Let me say and reflect very briefly on this point, which is a decisive step, long awaited above all by the scientific community, which in Italy as in other countries has produced, over the years, a vastness of studies and research of a theoretical and methodological nature, which can finally be applied to the bilingual educational model between sign language and Italian language. The model of bilingualism clearly enhances - science leaves no doubt in this regard, as in many other cases - the possibility of recovering, enhancing and effectively implementing the cognitive and communicative capacity of children with hearing disabilities of various kinds. Studies on bilingualism - language of signs and language, in this case Italian - demonstrate, with the overwhelming evidence of scientific research, that the exposure of deaf children and children hearing bilingual teaching favours for all perceptive plasticity, the ability to adapt to different contexts and above all - let me say, perhaps this is the determining feature - the development of a more open personality, more flexible and more inclined to adapt to the dynamism of the social context, which is what society today demands. It has already been said, but I want to repeat it, citing a tradition of studies, especially in our country, absolutely authoritative, that sign language is to all intents and purposes structurally a language, such as natural ones. In this sense, like any experience of bilingualism, the learning of a second language produces a cognitive, psychological and social advantage that is only an enrichment, fundamental to the experience of children who will find themselves able to take advantage of this possibility as well. I have had the opportunity - and I would like to remind you, Mr President - as Minister of Education to see concretely, in the classes of the small school in Cossato, in the Province of Biella, or of the most famous institute Antonio Magarotto in Rome or even in other institutions that are experimentally adopting this model (I think of the comprehensive institute Giovanni Modugno in Barletta), the effectiveness, not only educational, but also of cognitive progress that this instrument can guarantee to deaf and deaf children. What has also been said by those who announced their vote of abstention in the Chamber before me is another point that is important to stress and that I would like to remind colleagues that in Articles 5 and 6 and in Article 3, in particular, this bill takes into account all the results of scientific research, not only the studies of didactics and glottodidactics applied to LIS-Italian language bilingualism, but also and above all the progress in the field of preventive medicine (neonatal screening, preventive investigation in pregnancy) and rehabilitation medicine have been widely mentioned. With this law, cochlear implantology becomes an instrument, certainly already existing in the country, but potentially extensible. Without rhetoric, concluding and declaring the vote fully and convincingly positive of the Democratic Party Group, let me also express the satisfaction that science and politics today are united in an objective of civilization much awaited in the country. What we are going to vote on is a bill that does not impose, but leaves free to make a fundamental choice for progress and progress, both in the learning phase of children, and in the adult life of those who, unfortunately, are affected by this disability, by birth or subsequent experiences; a measure that recognizes - I quote among others the call, even heartfelt and passionate, of Senator Mauro - the right of the person and that does not simply want to introduce new tools or methods of help to the condition of deafness; a provision that simply and cruciously expresses an instance of civilization. And when laws do not impose, but leave freedom of choice, when they express an instance of civilization they are good laws, they must be voted positively and offered to society that is outside this House as a contribution that, in this case, benefits from the results of science, but translates them effectively, even if late, into an important political act [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u153	Representatives of the Deaf National Agency, the National Research Council and the LIS Movement are present in the gallery now! ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u154	We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which has already been distributed and which is intended to be presented. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u157	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u158	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 302, 1019, 1151, 1789 and 1907, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: It is a framework law on the citizenship rights of deaf people, with hearing disabilities in general and deaf people. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u159	Colleagues, I shall refer the next item to the agenda for another sitting. In order to avoid confusion, I would like to point out that the vote on the statement of urgency will be scheduled for the afternoon, because tomorrow morning, as you know, there will be a debate and a vote on the Economic and Financial Document.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u162	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, experience and common sense in life should teach us that when you do not know a subject you should be quiet or at least, before talking, you should be informed, better if with the right people. In fact, it always takes respect. I, for example, would not dream of telling a surgeon how to operate. Instead, when it comes to work and union everyone becomes expert, of course with the workers' butts. The last in chronological order, Mr Di Maio (obviously Cernobbio makes bad jokes) shot zero on the union everything, in perfect wake with Renzi and company. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] I would like to remind you that Renzi also wanted to reform politics from above. He said those words, which highlight the desire to reform the union from above, if possible they are even more serious for two reasons on all: first, a few months ago, thanks to the Italian people, we managed to defend our Constitution from an unprecedented attack. At stake, if I am not mistaken, was precisely the democracy, representation and autonomy of Parliament. Now I have to think or that Mr Di Maio does not know that the union is a free and democratic association provided for in Article 39 of our Constitution or that he has rethinked it. It may change your mind, but you should have the courage to say it publicly. At worst, it happens that he defends the Constitution according to his own convenience and this aspect would be even more serious. The second serious point is that Mr Di Maio, being from Pomigliano d'Arco where there is an important working history, perhaps should stay a little more with the workers and less in Cernobbio, a place that makes bad jokes to what we see. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] Maybe he'd learn some important things about work and trade unionists. For example, what are at risk of the many workers who also do union for passion, the passion that is needed to defend democracy and dignity in the workplace. Maybe they'd give him advice about what workers need to improve the union, but that's what they can do and only the workers have to do it, it doesn't have to be dropped from above. They would need a representation law, they would say, because workers are also denied the possibility of voting by whom to be represented and we here in the Senate should be even more convinced of this. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u163	Conclude, Senator Barozzino.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u164	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). In the Senate, we should be even more convinced, because we fought to ensure that senators were voted by the people. It goes without saying that I have tabled a proposal for a law on worker representation for four and a half years, and if you wanted to do something important, that would be what it would be. Finally, Mr President, allow me one last remark. We should have a much more serious discussion about those disasters that caused the jobs act, about Cernobbio's friends, because here is the real problem. In fact, workers can no longer claim safety at work, because without rights we cannot claim that either. We do not pretend anything: this is very dangerous, because it could endorse the trade union of convenience which would be a real danger, without representation at work. Excuse me, Mr President, I have never stolen any time in my speeches, but this time let me take a few more seconds. If we want to represent the workers seriously, we must start with the old tools of the past, one of all democracy, which has disappeared in the workplace and all politics pretends not to Noticing. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u167	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, last week in Turin the G7 was held and unfortunately on Fridays and Saturdays the events that affected the cities of Turin and Venaria were, as was easily predictable, resulted in violence by the usual known organized groups, which unfortunately are a well-known presence in our city. CRIMI (M5S). But are these campaign interventions? EXPOSED Stefano (PD). On Saturday, during the procession that ended a few hundred meters from Venaria's palace, the social center Askatasuna, known to all and to national chronicles for its ability to pollute all peaceful demonstrations, became protagonist of violence that led to the arrest of one of the leaders of the center - indeed today promptly released and placed in mandatory residence in his country - accused of having beaten a policeman who had forty days of prognosis. You see, Mr President, the facts of the G7 will be judged by the magistrates, but then there are some other leaders or leaders of this social center who, in these hours, after discovering that the journalists of the Republic had made available the footage on the basis of which the police and the judiciary have provided the delayed arrest, as provided for by our laws, of the person who had beaten, or who would beat the policeman, one of them with a post on Facebook threatened the journalists of this newspaper, saying that from now on they will be treated like the cops of the forensics. Knowing the idea that the gentlemen of Askatasuna have of the police, it can be assumed that this is a real threat, because they have the habit of attacking the Forces of Order. I would once again ask the Ministry of the Interior (since there is no hope that from this point of view the Turin administration will intervene), whether it is not appropriate to close down this social centre, which unfortunately has been operating undisturbed for twenty years. The magistrate will think of the arrests, but the threats that are made continuously - I mentioned one at the head of a known exponent and one of the other leaders, such Lele Rizzo - could then produce their own effects over time. I address myself - I repeat - to the Minister of the Interior because I believe that the city of Turin does not deserve to have on the national news its own image dirty by these social centers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u170	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House a fact that has happened, is happening and will most likely happen in a country in the Province of Pavia in a few minutes. I am therefore not talking about Mickey, Puffolandia or Paperoli, but about a country in the province of Pavia, therefore in the Italian Republic. Three months ago, the mayor, using funds from the municipality, sued some minority city councillors, accusing them of defamation against the municipality itself. These minority city councillors, in the election campaign and just after being elected, simply criticized the operation of the administration. The mayor, on behalf of the municipality, requested the payment of damages for 316,000 euros to minority city councillors. Tonight the mayor asks the municipality to vote for the incompatibility of minority municipal councillors as in question with the municipality. In practice, the majority ostracizes the minority, promoting a lawsuit against the minority, and then contests the incompatibility of those who suffer this anomaly. In so doing, Mr President, we will shut up all the minority city councilors from all over Italy, because it is enough to criticize the work of a mayor so that, by using money from the citizens of that municipality, then of Italian citizens, he will sue minority municipal councillors and then silence them, in order to declare their incompatibility. This is what happens to Vidigulfo, who is not on another planet. We will therefore ask the Minister of the Interior to send inspectors to that municipality to check what is happening in municipalities of that type and not only the work of that mayor against the municipal councillors; also other. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u173	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost a laugh to me to remember how much on Sunday evening, thanks to a well-known television show, we all learned, namely that a Member, then a colleague of ours in Parliament, Caruso, expression of a political force called Solidarity-Democratic Centre, allows himself to work at his service, initially as an intern and then we do not know how, a girl who for about a year and a half, according to what has been produced, is not paid. That is a very good democracy which is supportive of those who work! But the most amusing thing - and I am addressing my colleagues in particular - is that this girl, in the well-known transmission "Le Hyene" also showed a little message that would have been sent to her, precisely by this Member, in which, a few minutes after midnight, she invited the girl in question to go to her home: obviously there was an important job to do! All of this led, just this afternoon, to the resignation of an undersecretary for the defence, Mr Rossi, because in this tour - I am ashamed to call it not even mouthpiece because it is only grotesque - would also be arranged a sort of false assumption for someone who was then paid by his father, namely the son, precisely, of the undersecretary Rossi. First of all, I would like President Boldrini to look into the matter a little bit, because I think that all Italian women should feel outraged, even more so if they are working, since work is being exchanged with proffers of this nature - if that is true - and I would also like to reiterate that we have known all this through a television broadcast. Today we learn from the Newspaper Fact that Sky, a well-known television certainly not alongside the 5 Star Movement, fires over 100 people who had also partially agreed to move to Milan. Some will remember, in fact, that, perhaps in order to penalize the new city council of Rome, Murdoch, together with his in Italy, had made known that information as it is done in Milan cannot be done in Rome. Consequently, in spite of any economic calculation, he had imposed a mass transfer of his employees from Rome to Milan. Without prejudice to the fact that there is a judgment of the judiciary that took place on 22 August, in which Sky is told to respect the laws of the Italian Republic, and Sky in response - excuse me Frenchism - does not care, because obviously a multinational company can care about it, I would also like to remind you, starting from the intervention of my colleague Barozzino, that in some ways it was at least disturbing the behaviour of some trade union representatives, that perhaps he forgot that it was his job to defend the workers and connect them to the company so that the right to work was not trampled on. So much so that only some union forces have lifted up and made their voice heard in defense of these workers. I would like the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and also the Minister for Justice to follow this dispute with due attention and responsibility, because it is unacceptable that, in the face of the intervention of the judiciary, someone, simply because he thinks he is big, does not care. The law is the same for everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u174	Senator Morra, I believe that the matter you have pointed out merits solicitation and attention also from the presidency of the Senate, given the truly unacceptable dismissal procedures that Sky is following.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u177	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, the mafia is a social disease that has a form of power, a form of power that aims to govern social relations; the mafia is always traceable and connected to two elements: land and fire. With these words, spoken by Professor Nando from the Church, began the seventh edition of the Summer school organized crime 2017, with the subtitle: "The Mafia Today". Well, in Lombardy the fire continues to intimidate local administrators and entrepreneurs, especially those related to the waste treatment cycle and construction companies. I have here a list of about 25 incendiary events collected by the regional advisors of the 5 Star Movement in 2017 alone. Some strange ones are happening, for example, at the company Carluccio srl, whose offices in Bruzzano (Milan) and Cinisello Balsamo were involved, respectively on July 26th and October 2nd, that is yesterday, by fires. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior, Senator Minniti, to do everything in his possession and in his faculties to fill the Forces of Order in that area and I also ask Minister Orlando to do everything in his power to ensure that the prosecutors are equipped with the means they have required for several months, if not years. I am also following the request of Dr. Zanetti, Prosecutor of the Republic at the Monza Court, who has been asking for at least three magistrates for some time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u180	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I would just like to remind you that ten years ago Giuseppe Pera, a great Italian Juslavorist, died, to whose memory and thought in the days to come in Lucca is dedicated a conference by the Foundation that bears his name. Here I would like to remind only the association that linked Giuseppe Pera to two other great Italian Juslavorists: Gino Giugni and Federico Mancini. What unites the trio Giugni, Mancini and Pera in the fifties is a very disenchanted look on the old legal dogmatic, a bit muffy and self-referential. This disenchanted gaze, which then marked all the subsequent Juslavoristic culture, both Italian and not only, has led Gino Giugni to give value to the study of the interweaving between state law and inter-union order, between legislative source and collective source, between labour law and industrial relations. Federico Mancini has valued the study of the interweaving between labour law and labour policies, then between law and politics tout court. Giuseppe Pera instead translated that disenchanted look on traditional dogmatics into a sort of reversal of the legal discourse. Instead of reasoning by concepts, identifying the abstract notion and then bringing the concrete case back to it, Giuseppe Pera has always started from the reason to be concrete of the norm, that is, from the real protective interest (political sensual side) from which it was born, and compared it with the interest at stake in the individual case. Pera was not interested in a labor law deduced in sillogistics by the highest systems, but only a law of earthly labor, dirty with oil and soot, in which the common sense of the good judge of labor is much more important than abstract logic. To him, as to the other two Juslavorists of whom I mentioned, he owes much not only, of course, the Juslavorist community, but also the whole of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u181	The Presidency supports your rightful and proper remembrance, Senator Ichino.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u184	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking today in this House to denounce a serious situation involving the Municipality of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, in the province of Caserta. The cuts that this Government has made to local authorities in particular and the enormous difficulties that the municipalities have in providing services to their citizens in the absence of resources from the central state are well known. But what is happening in this municipality is really paradoxical. You must know, in fact, that the Municipality of Santa Maria Capua Vetere has a credit of two million euros for the IMU (the property tax), by a person who, in the period between 2004 and 2009, did not pay what was due. Then you will tell me: turn to Equitalia, let them foreclose and make you pay. Unfortunately, however, the debtor in question is the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In fact, during the period 2004-2009, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers used the local Stir plant during the waste emergency. The Presidency of the Council refused to pay these sums by saying that it was an activity for institutional purposes, so we also went through the legal channels. This until the final judgment of the Court of Cassation, which in 2016 accepted the appeals of the Municipality of Santa Maria Capua Vetere and recognized the obligation of the Presidency of the Council to pay the municipal tax for the period 2004-2009, and also established that the plant since 2011 was used for industrial activities, for profit from SpA and certainly from entities other than the State. To this we add, among other things, that the Municipality of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, after the judgment of the Court of Cassation, through Equitalia has activated for the collection of what is in its right. But to date, after a year and a half, the Presidency of the Council still fails. The folders were issued by Equitalia in 2012 for an amount of 1,921,380 euros, solicited in 2013, but still not one euro has been paid. If we add to this that the same municipality has a credit from the Ministry of Justice for the expenses incurred for the judicial offices as well as for the payment of taxes, for about a decade, equal to about 10 million euros, you will understand well where the paradox of the situation is. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to ask two questions that I have put on this subject: the 3-03231 of 18 October 2016 and the 4-00579 of 18 July 2013. This is unacceptable. If it were a citizen, for a few thousand euros you would certainly already have reduced him to hunger and taken what he had to: he would have had to pay everything immediately. On the contrary, the Presidency of the Council not only violates a law that this Parliament has enacted with regard to the IMU, but does not respect the judgment of the Court of Cassation, therefore a final judgment. I therefore ask that the Presidency of the Council and the Ministry of Justice immediately pay their debts because the Municipality of Santa Maria Capua Vetere cannot and must no longer support this situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u185	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-888.ana.u186	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 4 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.51 a.m.
