ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] CASTALDI (M5S). President, if one is missing, we can call Mayor Cuomo. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2874 and 2875. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the joint general discussion, the reply of the representative of the Government and the examination of the articles took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u11	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, first of all I would like to say that the Federation of Freedoms Group will vote against the budget's accounting and adjustment when we consider it. The measures we are examining today are not merely a technical step, or rather technical variations, perhaps on individual budget items, but result from the choices and changes in the budget that the Government has decided to make without our vote in favour: logical consequence of this is that our vote will not be favourable. Let's go here to assess the effects of the government's active policies and some of the effects of the reform policies that have been flagged both, of course, at national level and at international level. On this we must give a reading not only technical, but also political, or somehow glimpse a perspective. Despite the rosy reading of the data that my fellow rapporteurs and the representatives of the majority have tried to present to us, we believe that the economic policies of this Government and especially the heavy legacy on the accounts of the previous Renzi Government do not go in the right direction. We believe that cutting spending has produced disappointing results and that growth policies have still been too weak and short-lived. All this, mainly the result of the government action of recent years, has created additional debt, bringing it to an abominable and practically dramatic size. It is clear that there is a need to activate new policies, which give a real new impetus to the country. There are many issues and we have discussed them thoroughly when examining the budget law and corrective manoeuvres, and for these very reasons we believe that there should be a greater momentum in terms of proposal and development action, also from the point of view of solidarity and action in favour of families, territories and businesses. This statement and this settlement demonstrate the weakness of the policies that have been activated so far and therefore the Federation of Freedom Group will vote against. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u14	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Northern League Group also votes against the 2016 and 2017 accounts. This is a rejection not only of these two individual measures, but also of course of the economic policy of this Government and the governments that have followed each other in a more or less legitimate way since 2011. I say more or less legitimate because they have been the result of choices not made by the citizens with a democratic vote, but exclusively with the support of parliamentary groups that have joined in these classrooms, not necessarily on a political project or on a line of government wanted and voted by the citizens, but exclusively to carry out this legislature and the previous one. The successive governments - from Monti to Letta, to Renzi and today to Gentiloni Silveri - have implemented essentially two types of choices and economic policies: at the beginning, with the Monti Government, the strategy of aggression against the savings of Italian citizens was implemented, with actions based on the increase of tax pressure even in a reckless way, depressing the economy. This was the first cure that, in fact, has irreversibly damaged the quality and driving force of the economy of our country, in particular of the territories of the North, destroying the manufacturing system that had been created with great effort. Then there was the policy of renziana, that of bonuses, that of an expenditure that did not produce economic development, but that went exclusively to the search for a continuous electoral consensus that then vanished on the night of December 4 with a peremptory rejection and without appeal from the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are the policies implemented in recent years by governments supported by the PD and by the transformist groups that have been created within this Parliament, which lead to results that are before everyone's eyes and that, in a fairly ridiculous way, the current Government wants to present as improvements in the economy in a situation under control that does not actually exist. Indeed, at a time when the government, through the report that has been carried out here, but also through the propaganda that is proposed on the media, states that we have pegged the recovery, that GDP grows and that therefore, we are out of the crisis, it gives absolutely unfounded news because compared to an increase in Italian gross domestic product that is 0.9% in 2016, the average of European growth is over 1.6%, which means that we are the taillight at European level, that there are economies that travel over 2% of growth and that our growth is absolutely apparent and due to a momentary - and not therefore structural - positive situation at international level. The data, therefore, show an absolute rejection, not only for these numbers, not only because the public debt - over 2,200 billion - is now out of control, but also because in the facts, for the reality that we live in the country every day, we do not feel the recovery of which is narrated and of which we want to deceive the Italian citizens. We still see, on our territory, for those who live the reality of our territory, situations of crisis of families, businesses, commercial and craft activities that open and close continuously in a few months precisely because now undertaking activities in our country is practically impossible. We are in this situation and we are in an even more absurd and aberrant situation because, in the face of such a policy, we are witnessing a continuous flight from Italian citizens abroad. This is a fact which is not reflected in these macroeconomic analyses, but which has a fundamental value for us. We witnessed, in 2016 and in previous years, a continuous arrival of non-EU citizens; in particular last year there were over 170,000. They are people looking not for refuge, not a place where there is no war, but simply a place where to build an economic future for themselves, compared to 110,000 Italians who have emigrated. These figures should concern Parliament and the Government because they represent an absolutely unacceptable model, or at least for the North League; that of a country that hunts its citizens, which causes them to escape, especially young people who have qualifications and qualifications, to create a future abroad while importing immigrants. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is a crazy situation and only a blind and deaf government before the needs of its country cannot consider it an absolutely negative factor. The worst thing is that, despite such obvious data, it clearly emerges, from previous measures and from those that we will vote on today, what the government's policy is. We are witnessing a budget policy which, in its original text, allocates 600 million, in addition to those already planned, for policies in favour of foreigners, asylum seekers and refugees and a further 134 million for policies related to the residence permit and the qualification of refugees. In view of these increases, which have been added to a further 55 million in the examination of the draft settlement law in the Commission with an amendment tabled by the Government, we are witnessing a shameful reduction in other expenditure chapters: a cut of more than 234 million for policies to support people with disabilities, not self-sufficient and disabled civilians and 50 million for family policies. This is the emblem of the government's economic policy: on the one hand an uncontrolled expenditure on hospitality and to encourage the entry of non-EU citizens and low-cost workers, on the other hand a cut in expenditure for the weak sections of our population. This figure is sufficient to point out that there is a total disconnect between the government's economic policies and the real needs of the country, which would need interventions to reduce tax expenditure and support the weak. Policies to encourage Italian families, residents and those who have created our economic system and our society should be increased. On the other hand, there is an uncontrolled policy in other directions. The expenditure of more than 4 billion for the reception is out of control and has only two objectives: to obtain cheap labour and to alter the identity of our peoples and our communities, because it is clear that it is easier to dominate peoples without identity, rather than peoples with a strong identity and the means to defend themselves from the strong powers, the protection and the arrogance of politics. It is a social model to which we will not adhere. It is a model of development of the future of our country and our territories to which we do not want to adapt, which we consider wrong and which we do not consider inevitable. On the contrary, we believe that it is a desired model, planned, studied and funded by this Government and other Executives of this kind, which represent a system of power that does not identify in citizens individuals who have rights, but exclusively consumers, people who have to produce and pay. It is a model of society absolutely far from our values and values that have made this country great and that, even through these budgetary policies, manifests itself in a clear and worrying way. The worst aspect of all this is that this is happening now in the total indifference of the Government and in the total resignation of the Italian public opinion. We say no to these economic measures for all the reasons I have set out and for the policies underlying the expenditure of this Government. Let's say no because we represent a political force that does not resign itself to this model of society and that still wants the development and growth of the culture that has made our country great. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u17	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group, like the two before us, will not vote in favour of the measures we are considering. So we are already three out of three, because both in the accounts and in the settlement there are many shadows that Parliament as a whole has very little chance of intervening. Programming, the indispensable foundation of each economic process, manifests forms of incompleteness and approximation and the presence of commercial rules, disconnected from each other and totally useless to make imagine any form of recovery and only aggravates an already disastrous economic picture. I make a prediction: when this government next year ends its mandate, the public debt will reach 2,500 billion. In assessing the aspect of current account and capital expenditure, one immediately realizes that these are always few and reduced, when in fact they are the ones that in the long run give a positive return in terms of work, employment and, more generally, in favour of economic growth. We are talking about the growth of culture and rightly the Minister of Education, Senator Fedeli, is working to extend the compulsory school age to eighteen years because it is said that increasing the schooling by one year, increases GDP by one point. We also need policies of ageing in public education: in our schools we need young people who are more prepared to replace ultra-sixty-year-old staff - those who speak to you have that age - who are no longer motivated, no longer updating and are no longer able to form the country's future working framework. The same goes for health care. Who speaks to you is an ultra-sexantenne doctor. It is time for these over 60s doctors with a now archaic, backward and late-medieval health culture to be replaced by capable young researchers. With the Fornero reform three generations have been blocked and we must recover this gap because if they enter the productive health forces there can be recovered. These are the structural reforms; this is Columbus' egg and the courage that Bettino Craxi had in the 1980s when we became the fifth world economic power. On the other hand, to further exacerbate this already compromised context, current expenditure continues to suffer from an ineffective spending review, because it is not serious, as it is based exclusively on linear cuts. Such cuts are only useful to throw smoke in the eyes of citizens in order to ride the ever-longer wave of populism. This is perhaps a useful strategy in electoral terms, but it will not be able to last long, either because it is inconclusive or because the benefits of the cuts in the costs of democracy are at least as derisory as the costs themselves. First of all, we must aim to increase revenue, because only in this way will we be able to recover the lost ground in these years due to causes both to the international economic context and to factors exclusively internal. It is necessary to compress the gap between the various sections of the population and even more urgent is to aim to smooth that still too clear difference between the North and the South of the country, an ancient and harmful legacy that has come the time to overcome. Colleagues, this is not done with the pre-election ads or with cuts that do not affect the state budget at all. Your doctor cannot guarantee eternal life with his care. Here too there is a need to be pragmatic and not to say that everything is fine when structural reforms are not being made and when investment is not being spent on money that allows development itself in research and innovation. We have been a homeland that has taught the world our skills in advanced tertiary and we must try not to cut, but to invest as much as possible in that sector. Of course, control and containment of public expenditure must be placed among the priorities, but above all it is necessary to aim to revive consumption and investment, supporting simplification, reducing the tax burden, abandoning forms of welfare, encouraging social justice and promoting a process of serious structural reforms. Colleagues, criminality and defensive medicine cost us 20 to 40 billion, which we remove from development, research, innovation and the growth of the country. In short, instead of floating using announcements and proclamations, it is urgent to actually restart our economy and it is necessary that it arrives as soon as possible at full regime. In order to do this, we also need to make investments that we could define of a cultural nature, aiming to bring out the so-called submerged and encouraging the culture of legality both in the world of work and in the business world. To do this, cutting is not enough. Cutting waste is necessary, morally obligatory, but what matters financially is investing and investing well, aiming at the revival of those areas where the rate of poverty and unemployment has a higher percentage and actually addressing our excellences, even intellectuals, decanted everywhere in the world, as I said before. The economic picture, which seems slightly better than a few years ago, must not deceive us, just as the reading and subsequent analysis of ISTAT data must not be a means of propaganda. The data are, in fact, read as a whole, interconnecting them with each other. Employment rate and volume of consumption, for example, are closely linked and it is not enough that only one of them has a positive index to believe that everything is going well. It is for this reason that I again stress the need to overcome an easy lightness when this type of measures is being drawn up and examined and I call on the Government and the majority to abandon the search for consensus outside the parliamentary classrooms and to aim for effective and substantial growth, in order to achieve which certainly also needs a massive amount of courage. Let me give an example: the hasty doctor causes the wound to degenerate, makes it addictive, and we do not need this in the economy and development of the country. This courage, to us of the Ala-Scelta Civic Group, seemed totally absent in the entire cycle that concerns the economic measures submitted to Parliament. I declare, as I mentioned earlier, our vote against. Mr President, allow me one last flash. I call on those groups - and this is also important in terms of clarity and development - who have not yet appointed their members to the Committee of Inquiry into the banks to do so quickly. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro. Comments of Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u20	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of the general state statement in the parliamentary classrooms has always been in line with Parliament's legal-constitutional function of control over the work of the Executive, in order to verify whether the Government has properly followed the financial management within the terms laid down in advance by the approval of the annual budget law. The structure of the entire act is therefore very complex and technical, including the balance sheet and the general balance sheet of the value-added assets, as well as the summary accounts annexed to certain government administrations with autonomy. In particular, the general account of the assets appears to be the accounting document capable of presenting the balance sheet of the State as it appears at the end of the financial year as a result of changes and changes in its assets and liabilities arising from the management of the balance sheet or from any other cause. In a nutshell, the net balance to be financed from the 2016 state budget has a negative value of 11,1 billion euros, with an improvement of 30,4 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2015, which had instead settled at a negative value of 41,5 billion. Public savings in 2016 showed an improvement over the previous year, accounting for more than 32.8 billion, due to both the increase in current revenues (plus 16.7 billion), and the decrease in current expenditure (less 20.2 billion). In the economic-accounting document a well-known figure is confirmed: in 2016 GDP at market prices recorded a nominal growth of 1.6% compared to the previous year and a change in volume also of positive sign equal to 0.9%, confirming an increase almost identical to that recorded in 2015 (0.8 percent). However, here I would like to make a political assessment, because we cannot but record that ten years after the crisis, Italian GDP is still estimated at levels lower than that of 2007 by about eight points, with a cumulative loss of around €800 billion. Problems affect both the demand side (lower consumptions of 5%, investments of almost 30%), and the supply side with a further loss of labour productivity. These numbers are the sign of bad and ineffective economic policies, because if we continue to follow a supply policy based on the simultaneous reduction of expenditure and taxes as a way of recovering growth, and even the margins of flexibility obtained in Europe are wasted to this end, the problems of growth and increased employment do not start in a direction of structural resolution. In functional connection with the instrument of the financial statements, it is necessary to examine the draft law of settlement 2017, which, in being the first to be prepared in accordance with the most recent changes made to the law of accounting and public finance (Law No 196 of 2009), is confirmed an act not only necessary, but strongly appropriate to put in place the flexibility margins granted to the administrations. It is true that the net balance to be financed shows a negative change of 17.4 billion on the whole. However, it should be noted that the value is nevertheless consistent with the maximum limit set out in Annex 1 by the 2017 Budget Act as subsequently amended. The result of an increase in revenue of 2.8 billion and a reduction in interest expenditure of 1.9 billion is welcomed. Similarly, there is a positive picture of the increase in forecasts of public savings compared with initial forecasts of 2.9 billion. The figure on final revenues, which increases by 5.3 billion compared to the forecasts, is also good, the result of an increase in tax revenues by 1.8 billion and that of extra-tributary revenues by 3.5 billion. It is also important to highlight how the settlement proposals formulated by this bill improve public finance balances, both by increasing revenues by 2.8 billion, and by reducing final expenditure by 1.6 billion due to the significant reduction in interest expenditure, and by reducing the repayment of financial liabilities. The economic picture settles with these conditions because, unfortunately, there is a worsening of the primary surplus and the forecasted final expenditure increases by 22.7 billion, both at the level of current expenditure and at the level of capital expenditure. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore vote in favour of these measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u23	GUALDANI (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, the examination of the general state statement in Parliament reflects Parliament's legal-constitutional function of control over the Executive, representing the instrument by which it is verified that the Government has effectively followed up the financial management within the terms previously established by Parliament itself, through the approval of the annual budget law. With reference to the results of the management of competence, overall, there is an improvement of the balances both with respect to the definitive forecasts as result from the law of settling 2016, and with respect to the results achieved in the exercise 2015. In particular, the net balance to be financed from the State budget for 2016 has a negative value of €11.1 billion, with an improvement of €30.4 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2015, which had instead settled at a negative value of €41.5 billion. Compared to the final forecasts, this balance was better than 27.8 billion, as it was expected to be, in 2016, at a negative value of 38.9 billion euros. For capital expenditure, with commitments of €42.8 billion, the 2016 report shows a slight increase compared to the previous year of €1.5 billion, which is a good hope for the increase in investments in the future, linked in particular to the recovery of the economic cycle. The weight of total expenditure, in relation to GDP, decreased from 50.24% of GDP in 2015 to 47.14 percent in 2016. The settlement proposals formulated with the other bill under consideration today in this House for the financial year 2017 improve public finance balances both by increasing revenues (+2.8 billion), and by reducing final expenditure (1.6 billion) and the repayment of financial liabilities (5 billion). With regard to final expenditure, the reduction of 1.65 billion is attributable to the substantial reduction in interest expenditure of 1.95 billion euros, which mitigates the increase of 253 million of current expenditure net of interest and 45 million of capital expenditure. Changes in cash permits mean that all balances, with the exception of public savings, will deteriorate compared to the initial forecasts. The magnitude of the worsening of the net balance to be financed is approximately 20 billion (from about 102.6 billion of the initial forecasts to 122.6 billion), while the need to resort to the market is an increase of 15.2 billion, reaching the amount of almost 372 billion; the primary surplus, starting from the negative value of almost 23.4 billion, reaches an equally negative amount of little less than 45.7 billion, with a worsening percentage of little less than 96 percent. Public savings alone improve by 3.3 billion, from around 61.2 billion to around 57.9 billion. On the other hand, the difference of almost EUR 2.7 billion between the size of the final expenditures in terms of competence and those in terms of cash, explained by the disposal of passive residues. The composition of the changes formulated by the arrangement, articulated by missions, highlights among the most significant variations: the lesser need for repayment of international loans, with a reduction of the mission Public debt of 6.15 billion in terms of competence and 6.4 billion in terms of cash; the lower expenses of the mission Social security policies of 1.2 billion euro (competence and cash), attributable to the adjustment of the actual needs of the INPS; the reduction of expenditure of the financial relations with the territorial autonomy of about 1 billion in terms of competence (841 million in terms of cash), mainly due to the lower accounting adjustments of the revenue collected by the Regions to Special Statute, with reference also to previous years. There is also an increase in mission expenses for Labour Policies, for 1,479 million euros in terms of competence and 1,381 million euros in terms of cash, due to the increased burden related to extraordinary cash-integration treatments (IGCs) and related treatments at the end of the relationship; the increase of 990 million euros (in terms of cash only) of the Civil Aid mission following the assignments in favor of the special offices in L'Aquila and the municipalities of the crater for reconstruction; and finally an increase of more 550 million euros (competence and cash) related to Immigration, reception and guarantee of rights, due to the greater need determined by migratory flows. A significant element emerges from the brief examination of the main macrodata: our country is in constant recovery. The action of the Government and this Parliament, although difficult for the economic situation at international level, in these five years has demonstrated the country's ability to raise its head and look with optimism to the future. Clearly, we are not satisfied, as these data in recovery must only be a first stimulus to further improve the overall picture of the country system. The future macroeconomic action of the majority will only be able to further support the growth, stimulating the capital expenditures, foreclosures of positive effects in terms of employment and revenue. Labour support expenditure will certainly not be reduced, but at the same time ways will have to be found to further increase tax relief for entrepreneurs in order to support further recruitment. In particular, planning of infrastructure innovation will have to take on the characteristics of systematicity. Our country, still in the 1960s in many respects, can no longer ignore a proper management of its territory and, even in the light of climate change, will have to equip itself with a plan of water management, of contrast to hydrogeological failure in general and a serious seismic mapping of the entire Boots. If we do not begin to allocate systematic sums on these aspects, we will find ourselves constantly chasing emergencies and patching up what is no longer patchable, but that must be drastically changed. On behalf of the Group of the People's Alternative I therefore express a satisfaction for the data emerged from the statement and the adjustment, but that it is a further stimulus to the improvement of the macroeconomic framework and the real economy and announces the favorable vote of the Parliamentary Group [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote against the 2017 budget balance and balance sheet. The latter, in particular, envisages a deterioration in the net balance to be financed by EUR 21.9 billion for administrative acts. Translated, it is the impact of 20 billion euros on this balance of Decree-Law No 237 of 2016, so-called save banks, which has resulted in an increase in the acquisitions of financial assets for this sum. The adjustment was then helped, as it were, by the reduction in interest expenditure by about 2 billion and by the increase in revenue by about 3 billion due to the current recovery. Expenditure has been reduced by about one billion. In the end, the net balance to be financed worsens in terms of competence of 17,4 billion compared to the figure indicated in the fiscal law for 2017. In short, when it comes to financing credit institutions you don't care about spending, you don't care about public finance balances. All the other music, however, for health, school, pensions, the contrast of climate change and intervention for the care of the territory. With the latest amendments tabled yesterday by the Government, the general expenses of the Ministry of Defence are further financed by 100 million, while to give another 18 million to our information services there is nothing better than to remove them from migratory cooperation. Good thing this summer's slogan was: Let's help them to their home. In our opinion, the vote on this measure and the 2016 report expresses a more general opinion on the public finance policies of this Government and the previous Renzi Government. The Government is glorified by the greatest growth today. I would like to refer to some of the comments made by the former head of the Bankitalia study office, Pierluigi Ciocca: These are the data of an unconsolidated cyclical recovery in the components of demand, and mediocre, both in absolute and in international comparison. Above all, mediocre compared to a collapse that from the quarterly cyclical peaks of ten years ago is measured in the following negative differences: -6.8% GDP; -4.2% private consumption; -27 percent investment; -21.4% industrial production; -2 percent employment; +7.1% exports (but below world trade). Even less can the word "growth" be used. Doing so is pure economic illiteracy. There is growth when the progression of the product, in addition to being a trend (non-cyclical), rather than a greater use of the work and other resources already available but underused, comes mainly from an intensified accumulation of capital, combined with research, innovation and technical progress. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the Italian economy today. Ciocca continues by saying that of course, (there is a small recovery,) but the productivity langue on low levels. The net stock of capital flexe. The hourly work product decreased in both 2015 and 2016. We mentioned welfare expenses. Some data are significant. The 2017 Economy and Finance Document (DEF) predicts that the ratio of health expenditure to GDP will decrease from 6.7 percent in 2017 to 6.5 percent in 2018, and then fall to 6.4 percent in 2019, implying that any recovery in GDP will in no way have a positive impact on public funding of health and welfare. The Court of Auditors estimates that in the period 2015-2018 the implementation of the public finance objectives resulted in a cumulative reduction in the financing of the National Health Service of EUR 10.51 billion, compared to the planned levels. The same General Accounting of the State attests that from 2010 to 2016 health spending has decreased on average by an additional 0.1 percent per annum while, as is known, the elderly population continues to grow. Another element of reflection concerns military expenditure and in particular the F-35 acquisition programme. A programme originally planned in more than 18 billion which, according to the Court of Auditors, has doubled unit costs and has had a very low employment impact even compared to the initial forecasts. The modest proposal by Mr Damiano, President of the Chamber's Labour Commission, to block the increase in retirement age, particularly for women, was also rejected. The highest in Europe. No way, the welfare cuts have to go on. So, double standards. The Government, with the presentation of the update note of the DEF 2017 (in a few days), is preparing to ask Parliament for a derogation from the approach towards the medium-term objective (balance of the budget). This isn't the first time. In fact, if I am not mistaken, it is the fifth time that this happens. This is a surreal matter, with Parliament having everything, in the last parliamentary term, approved an amendment to Article 81 of our Constitution which constitutionalized, in fact, the balance of the budget. As the Italian Left, we have not only tabled a proposal to amend this rule, but during the process of the constitutional reform of Italy, we have tabled an amendment to this effect which has obviously been rejected by the majority; the same majority today calling for a cross-cutting vote to derogate from the rule which it itself strongly wanted and wanted to maintain in the Constitution. It will not be some partial corrective proposals to the next budget law that will determine a real discontinuity with the policies of expansive austerity pursued by this Government. We need a real correction of course in relation to the policies imposed by the European Union. Renzi proposed to bring the deficit for five years to close to 3%, but then immediately pointed out that it is a programme for the next parliamentary term where, in all probability, he will not be the President of the Council. So nothing more than another election ad. Moreover, when he was President of the European Union, Renzi did not even mention any changes to the European Treaties. We do not agree with the use that continues to be proposed, even in view of the forthcoming budget law, of this greater budgetary flexibility: the multiplication of unnecessary bonuses which, as has been seen from the experience of these four years, have certainly not had a positive multiplier effect. We need a public investment policy dedicated to the ecological conversion of our production system, to remedy the hydrogeological failure of our country, to the security anti-seismic and to a real plan of adaptation to climate change, thus giving qualified work to hundreds of thousands of young people. France and Germany mask their national interests under alleged Europeanist ideals. Italy must be able to defend its national interests and weigh in Europe. Our country can put its full weight in the reform of the fiscal compact, which should be included in the European Treaties by this year. It is necessary to have the courage to do so, pain the reduction of our country to a colony of others and further crises from the social point of view, as unfortunately the recent acquisitions - regarding "colony" - of our financial and productive assets demonstrate. For all these reasons (I have tried to look a little further, also to the presentation of the next DEF), the senators of the Italian Left - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group will vote against the general statement for 2016 and the settlement for 2017.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u29	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, this morning I heard both the rapporteurs and Mr Morando. However, in many respects I have had the feeling of always listening to the usual propaganda, like when writing tweets and playing the usual game with numbers, taking only those that most agree to the majority and the government to show off abilities and successes that we do not think are in fact there. Why do I say that? Because, every time, there is a self-incense, especially from the elegant former Premier, now Secretary of the Democratic Party, who incenses his 1,000 days of government and reforms adopted. I would like to understand what reforms are being discussed, because the reform of public administration has been partially rejected, the reform of the school has forced the majority of teachers to embarrassing migrations, not to mention the lack of gratification with regard to students and, with regard to institutional reforms, and we have constitutional reform, which is also rejected. Maybe the jobs act would stay. Here, too, the successes from Gentiloni Silveri, Padoan, Poletti, Calenda and Renzi pale. Everyone is committed to writing tweets, but nobody tells us that the measure contained in the budget law, linked to the jobs act, which cost us over 20 billion euros, has brought the level of unemployment to a higher gap than the European average. What do I mean? When the Renzi Government took office, the unemployment rate in Italy was 12.9%, while the European average was 12%; therefore, the differential was 0.9%. Now, on the other hand, the differential is 2.2 percent. I am saying that the gap has more than doubled, compared with more than 20 billion public spending, because, of course, we have all paid the decontribution spot, which, moreover, has been done in the face of the abolition of a structural rule. Returning to the reform of the jobs act, this should have eliminated the precariousness, yet the data of the second trimester tell us that, with reference to the new assumptions, eight out of ten are fixed-term: this is nothing more than the certification of the only reform of Renzi remained standing. Maybe we're talking about industrial production, too. I remember that last June in a series of tweets it was written that there was, finally, a significant and decisive figure, equal to an increase of 1.1 percent. Right. This figure referred to an increase compared to May 2017, therefore from one month to the next. A few days ago the new data of the INPS came out and I hear thundering Gentiloni Silveri, Renzi, Calenda and singer company compared to a +4.4%. Well, I'm still grounded, I wonder: where do they get this data? It's just +4.4%, but it's a given July 2016 trend on July 2017. Then, it would have been interesting to say that in June 2017 compared to June 2016, growth was 5.2 percent, so we dropped to 4.4 percent. It would be more responsible and more mature to reckon as you have to, so month with month. So, if in June we had a +1.1, which is a significant figure, a decided increase that has brought a good contribution to industrial production (but we must also consider the energy component because, willing or not, it is so, gentlemen, and just go and read also the Terna report to know why), we arrive in July and the economic growth, that is month by month, is 0.1 percent. So, gentlemen, since you're so fond of the "zero comma" because the elegant former Premier didn't tweet that the growth of industrial production was 0.1%? But I want to go even further in detail than industrial production, because it is very interesting to evaluate also the index of seasonally adjusted data. These are data that are easily found on the ISTAT website and tell us that, given 100 data 2010, which is the reference year, we are 96.9. So, we're still far away, but we're trying to get closer to 100 in 2010. But if we look at the whole progression, we see that in December 2016 - and I have to give credit for this, unfortunately, to Renzi - we were already at 96,2, and in January there was a decisive contraction and then there was a contraction in April that had brought us to 94. So we are slowly recovering this index, but we are always at the starting data: there is little to tweet! At least in this case, when we go to discuss the account, it would be much more mature and more responsible to look at the numbers for what they are and decree failures so as not to make them of others, which, unfortunately, is not. One fact that I have not heard from the Government at all, unfortunately, is that we have reached a new record, decisive also this: that of the public debt. Yes, because we have reached the 2,281 billion public debt, and the most disconcerting thing, however, is that there is a nice gap, again, between the increase in GDP and the increase in public debt: public debt gallops and GDP grabs with respect to public debt. This is wrong, it is a distortion that must be highlighted, because otherwise we do not move forward. Reading the account, there may be some positive facts, but we also need to assess why. There is because, in reality, there is the quantitative easing that has saved us 10 billion euros of passive interest and it is not an action of the Government and there is a fierce cut on the part of the local administrations, who pay the debt, when instead that of the central administrations does nothing but increase. And here we come to the narrow path that Deputy Minister Morando spoke about. Yes, because from the public debt we have to talk about a narrow path, which seems like a poem, it seems to come from somewhere, but it comes from the Renzi Government, which, after the safeguard clauses of the Letta Government of 3, 7 and 10 billion, reaches almost 30 billion safeguard clauses: it is those increases in VAT and excise duties that do not allow us to engage the real growth, the European one. If that goes well with us, Italy will have a growth rate of 1.5% against an average of the rest of Europe of 2.2. We are always behind us, other than the locomotive of Europe! And we owe it to the fact that choices have been made, not of economic policy, but of bonuses. And for those €10 billion data for the €80, it's useless for you to tweet about the ECB's report: read it well. It is a deficit expenditure, which we still have to pay and which still does not allow us to give a strong hand even to that industrial production made with the reductions, because that is also a commercial norm, it is a drug, as Vice Minister Morando said. It does not allow us to go any further and of those 10 billion spent only 3.5 billion have been spent on consumption and this is a chilling, worrying fact: there is nothing to be satisfied with compared to this. Now we're here to wrap ourselves up to look for a billion or 1.5 billion to extend the hyperimmortizations, commercial norm, yet 13 billion had been promised. It has been said in all sauces that decontribution had to be structural, and instead it was a commercial and let's see what results it's bringing, just read the INPS reports and cross them. For these reasons, for the fact that the money has been spent badly, for the fact that perhaps in tax evasion, in simplification, there has been a series of delays on deadlines already passed, where your incompetence has been magnified - and the companies, businesses and professionals that in these days have to do with these referrals and with the communication of VAT data know very well what I am talking about and I hope that they remember when the time comes - we will vote no to this account, for a matter of maturity and responsibility and because the numbers we read them all and for good. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u32	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, my fellow Members from my parliamentary group, Mr Mandelli and Mr Ceroni, have already spoken this morning about the reasons why our Group will vote against the budgetary adjustment that is being presented to us today. There is no doubt that this vote against is also, as has already been said, very concerned. If we look at the data brought by the law of settling, we understand that the situation of Italian public finance is not under control. It has already been said that the net balance to be financed, therefore one of the fundamental balances, compared to the draft budget law 2017, has increased, therefore it has worsened, in terms of competence for 17,4 billion and this is very serious, but it is even more serious because it worsens more in terms of cash and amounts to more than 20 billion euros. It is quite clear that the worsening of the cash register compared to the competence continues to indicate a current expenditure that increases and is out of control. This is the background figure that emerges from this budget and says that not only does the net balance to be financed worsen, but it only worsens everything: it worsens the use of the market, which is of course the difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure and therefore means that we will have to resort more to the issue of securities and therefore to debt. Above all, it worsens the primary surplus: everyone remembers that between the end of the nineties and the beginning of 2000, a flag of the center-left was to have improved the primary surplus. It is not appropriate here to see why it improved then, but in the meantime this was considered one of the signs of good public finance. Well, the primary surplus gets worse, even half. I want to remind you that the primary surplus is that index that immediately reverberates on the debt and is one of the indices that signal the possibility of improving the debt-to-GDP ratio that is what Europe asks us today but above all it is the real ballast that hinders the possibilities of development in Italy. Primary surplus decreases. There is another fact that seems to be better, namely that of public saving, which is the difference between current revenue and current expenditure before interest paid. It is understood that public savings improve because the interest rate on public debt is absolutely, in an extraordinary way, lower than in the previous period, at least in my memory. And beware, that this favourable economic situation, even if it improves public savings, as I said before, is not able to improve the primary surplus and that is why the picture is frankly and certainly negative. Of course, increasing current expenditure is an important fact. These expenditures increase by almost EUR 3 billion, which means that we still have a current expenditure situation that is not under control. And, almost mockingly, Madam President and colleagues, it seems that capital expenditure is increasing, and then we are deceived, thinking that it is a good thing, because, at first reading, it seems to be investment expenditure. No: Capital expenditure is also considered to be the acquisition of financial assets. And here is the increase of 20 billion because, as you know, it took 20 billion to deal with banking problems in Italy. So, regardless of whether they are or are not useful - probably yes - that 20 billion is not an increase in capital expenditure on investments, they are only necessary expenses to meet a financial emergency in the country. Acquisitions of financial assets are classified as capital expenditure and here is the increase of these expenses, while, in truth, now investment expenditures, even, tiredly, continue to decrease, because they are already reduced not to light, but to very little. And then is it enough, as Deputy Minister Morando said this morning, that narrow path to put Italy back on its feet? No. I don't think that's possible. Instead, we need more than a narrow path of a broad view, a real change of course, a government that has the courage to do some important things that greatly limit current spending and give public investment, which is the government's task, a significant increase. It is true that I agree with Deputy Minister Morando that all the measures for industry - depreciation, tax credits and more - have been positive at this time, which have contributed in a certain way to the recovery that is taking place in recent months, but, look out, there are many indicators that say that the current recovery is not of a structural nature and, in any case, our recovery is largely inferior to that of our European competitors. Then why is there a need for a broad view and a change of course? I would just like to give an example of public investment. There is a graphic that gives the creeps in anyone who reads it: in 2016 the amounts earmarked for public investment were far greater than in previous years, but the sums spent were far less, even in absolute value, than the previous ones. And here's the broad view: isn't it that the very complicated mechanism of the new procurement code, which follows the previous one and doesn't know how to overlap it, really one of the elements that hinders the translation of the budgetary allocation into concrete investment and therefore into employment, work and wealth? Is it not that that flood of authorities, semi-authorities and other authorities, which we believe must give a license of legitimacy to everything, do not really slow down the mechanisms of corruption, indeed only hold back good investments? Is it not that - excuse me the paraphrase a little'simple - we throw only the child and not even the dirty water? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Azzollini. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. This fact, which does not emerge very clearly in statistics, really makes you shudder: the wide view means removing laces and laces. It means creating a complex of external economies that promote public investment, private investment and help attract foreign investment. Only this can contribute seriously to the recovery of development in Italy in a structural way. With that narrow path and these settling manoeuvres, which still denote a broad use of current expenditure compared to the needs of sound public finance and which instead promotes exclusively development, we are not really there. That is why the Forza Italia Group will vote against the settlement proposal. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u35	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the public budget adjustment measure for 2017 is an important step in the budgetary cycle. On this occasion it comes to confirm to all of us and our fellow citizens that Italy has the public accounts in control and an economy that finally shows significant signs of recovery. The latest data released by ISTAT confirms that the country is now in a position to look to the future with confidence and awareness of being able to improve further. On the public finance front, the 2017 adjustment confirms that the public deficit is under control and the primary surplus, although decreasing, is still among the best among the member countries of the European Union. That is a good thing to remember. The net balance to be financed, for the part of the competence, turns out pairs to approximately 56 billion euros with a worsening of approximately 17 billion regarding the data indicated in the bill of budget 2017 (38.6 billion). On the revenue side, the proposed changes lead to an improvement in net debt of around EUR 1 billion, but they are offset on the expenditure side by a deterioration of the same amount. As far as final revenue is concerned, the forecast is rising by 5.3 billion compared to the initial ones, as a result of an increase in tax and extra-tributary revenues. Compared to the 2017 budget law forecasts, there is a clear improvement in public savings. The settlement proposals made with the draft law under consideration and the amendments adopted improve public finance balances both by increasing revenue and reducing final expenditure and the reimbursement of financial liabilities. In the light of the summary data mentioned, we confirm the substantial holding of our public accounts and above all the renewed international credibility of the country, which is reflected in the positive fall in interest rates on the securities of our public debt. The spread is no longer an element of tension, instability and the fall of confidence in our country. Today we are in a position to present ourselves in international institutional fora with a credible public finance situation and able to contribute to the stability of international financial markets. But the most positive fact of these months is that the national economy is moving towards a decisive economic and employment recovery. Over the past few weeks, ISTAT has released a series of comforting data: gross domestic product recorded in the second quarter of the current year an increase of 0.4 percent compared to the previous quarter and 1.5% compared to the corresponding quarter of 2014. The change already achieved in GDP for 2017 is 1.2%, compared with 0.9% expected. This growth was largely driven by the favourable development of the manufacturing and services sectors. Compared to the previous quarter, all the main aggregates of domestic demand have increased, with a growth of 0.2% of national final consumption and 0.7% of gross fixed capital formation. Imports and exports grew by 0.7% and 0.6% respectively. Domestic demand net of stocks contributed 0.3 percentage points to GDP growth. Changes in stocks also contributed positively to the change in GDP (+0.1 percentage points). Some say that it is little - we have heard it also in this discussion - but certainly it cannot be denied that it is the fourth consecutive quarter in which there is a positive trend change after the fall recorded between the first and second trimester of 2016. It is a well-established growth trend also valid for the next quarters as a trend. Further data confirm that the economy is on its way to sustainable growth. Industrial production grew by 4.4% annually in July, confirming what has already been done in the previous months, and prospects for the coming months are further positive. The signal of consolidation of the expansion of levels of economic activity, particularly significant in industry in the strict sense and in services, is associated with a substantial absorption of work by the production system which continues to expand in line with the dynamics of GDP: the total hours worked grow by 0.5% over the previous quarter and by 1.4% on an annual basis, confirming the high employment intensity of the current recovery. The labour market appears to be significantly improving in all its components. On the job supply side, in the second quarter of 2017 employment has a new economic growth of 78,000 units, due to the further increase of employees - many, unfortunately, are still engaged with forward contracts - and with a reduction of other components. Between the second quarter of 2017 and the same period of the previous year there is an estimated increase of 153,000 employees that concerns only employees, at the expense of independent work. The increase in absolute terms is greater for full-time workers - it is important - and part-time employment increases mainly in the voluntary component. Employment growth affects both genders and distributions and is more intense for women and in the North. To confirm the good performance of the labour market, the unemployment rate decreases by 0.4 percentage points compared to the previous quarter and by 0.6 percentage points compared to one year earlier, with a higher intensity for the youth market. Inflation stands at slightly positive levels. The annual growth rate of the index for the whole community (NIC) is 0.3% on a monthly basis and 1.2% on a monthly basis compared to August 2016. According to ISTAT, economic growth is expected to continue in the coming months. On the basis of the short-term forecast model, the real cyclical change in GDP forecast for the third quarter is +0.4%. In this scenario, growth for 2017 is expected to be between +1.4 and +1.5 percent, which was frankly a goal that is hardly predictable. Positive judgements about the state of our economy also come from the international context. The OECD recently recorded stable growth in July, which is expected to continue in the coming months. According to the International Monetary Fund, data for the second quarter show that Italy has grown more than expected in the euro area. A country in these economic, social and financial conditions, although still difficult, can look to the future with greater confidence than the recent past. There are no magic wands for economic growth, but we must remember the difficulties faced in the first measures examined at the beginning of this parliamentary term. We were in a situation of complete economic stagnation with all negative signs and emergency employment data. The business world was in great difficulty. The credit crunch and uncertainty of the financial markets dominated the scene and influenced economic policy choices. Our country was observed special in Europe and we had to face maneuvers on maneuvers to bring the accounts under control. Well, today we can proudly say that the hard work done in recent years by our governments and the majority that supported them has been positive. The choices made were the right recipe to restart the country. The Renzi Government has launched important measures that have been the basis of the growth trend that we are recording today, such as the much-discussed monthly increase of 80 euros for 11 million workers, which yesterday the European institutions judged a posteriori as a fundamental measure for the relaunch of consumption and GDP of our country. I cannot fail to mention the employment measures to promote permanent recruitment and measures to support companies that have helped to turn the country towards a growth path. The Government Gentiloni Silveri, in the wake of the previous one, is successfully completing the amount of work that has remained unfinished, has taken on important implementation actions in the field of combating poverty and above all - on this point I agree with Senator Azzollini - for the establishment of an investment and infrastructure fund for over 46 billion euros. And it will be crucial to know how to spend them effectively and promptly. Much more the government is going to do with the next budget law. These days, our Government is working in Europe to state definitively in fact that growth and employment are our top priority and that budgetary flexibility can be a valuable tool for achieving greater growth and financial stability. And it intends to prepare a courageous and determined financial maneuver that combines the need for growth with that of keeping public finances (the narrow path that has been talked about). The heart of the Government's agenda focuses on strong support for youth employment and growth drivers, with the reactivation of public investment, as well as reducing inequalities, as well as private investment. That is the point: our efforts today must move towards everything that can make the economy grow, create work and strengthen social cohesion. We start from a good basis, but it is time to implement the latest interventions of this legislature in the budget law to give employment and economic growth a stronger perspective. Only in this way can Italy find the right way, indispensable to remain among the leading countries and to guarantee a better future for our businesses, our citizens and the younger generations. For these reasons, I declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of reporting and settling measures. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u36	We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 2874 and 2875. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2874, as a whole, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2875, as a whole, with the annexed tables, in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u39	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, I would like to point out that the voting mechanism did not work and that I would have voted in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u40	The next item is the debate on the document: In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Maurizio Gasparri for the offence referred to in the third paragraph of Article 595 of the Criminal Code (defamation by means of the press or other means of advertising) transmitted by the Court of Rome on 13 December 2016 in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u43	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, I have asked to speak because we cannot silence the scandalous decision taken today by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Basically, today the Junta took note of the incompatibility of a senator elected mayor four months ago. In fact, he did not take note of it today but he will do so in three days' time, just in time for him to receive - look at the coincidence, Madam President - the privileged pension of a Member of Parliament even though he has no right to it. We cannot let this happen in silence, and not just because of the economic damage that is being applied to the Senate and, therefore, to all the citizens that this Senate is funding; citizens who will have to pay an extra pension to a senator who would not be entitled to it. The problem is another one. The problem is also, and above all, that the dignity of this institution has once again been trampled underfoot by such a decision. The dignity of politics and its representatives has been trampled on. Madam President, it is impossible for ordinary citizens to obtain a pension when the rules are not respected. For the caste and for some of its representatives, on the other hand, it seems that we can easily bend the rules at will to have, evidently, an unjust advantage, even by resorting to artifices and tricks. I remember that the letter sent by Senator Cuomo to the Senate clearly and incontrovertibly reports his will to opt for the role of mayor and, therefore, to decline from that of senator. Literally he wrote: "I myself cease to function and office as senator." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Madam President, I ask, and I conclude, to take note of this will and to give it immediate and formal notice to the House. Madam President, let this bullshit end. It's a farce. Do not make your contribution to further humiliating this institution. Otherwise, we will leave to the acts that can be given an unfair advantage to a parliamentarians, bending the law to his sole advantage, and not because he has the right, but because he has in his pocket a card - by chance - of the majority party in our country. And this, Madam President, I really don't think that's a good thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u45	You have the right to do so. (The Senators of the M5S Group display signs with the words: "Enough privileged pensions" and "Case Cuomo: shame"). I urge the quaestor senators to requisition the cartels and intervene to restore order. Senator Buemi, please have the floor. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, it is clear that Mr Cappelletti's position is purely instrumental and functional to the advertising campaign that they are carrying out right now. And that - I must say - is clear from the presence of photographers in the stands. When, in fact, photographers are present in the forums, the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement prepare initiatives of this kind.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u46	[[Protests from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Rizzotti.]] Montevecchi (M5S). What are you, Cuomo's lawyer? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi, please speak on the matter. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). The truth, however, is another, Madam President. The truth is that we respect the rules and practices applied to other colleagues who have previously been in the same situations. On the contrary, the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, instead of dealing with the order of the court of Palermo on their irregularities and their behaviour, shift their attention to a situation that is absolutely legitimate and corresponding to the interests of this Assembly and of Mr Cuomo, as well as of all of us. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, M5S, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u49	[[Comments of Senators Cappelletti and Santangelo. Protests from the M5S Group.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the 5 Star Movement, I remind you that Senator Cappelletti was able to speak, even in a quite bright way, without being interrupted. So, please let Senator Giovanardi intervene. Montevecchi (M5S). What are you talking about? SANTANGELO (M5S). The words are heard, Madam President! Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order! Allow Senator Giovanardi to speak as Senator Cappelletti has spoken. [[Repented comments from Senators Cappelletti and Santangelo.]] I'll call you back to order. Please let Senator Giovanardi speak. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Madam President, as part of the Junta which has debated this case today, I asked a question not to the President, but to the technical bodies of the Junta itself, who replied that, in whatever way we voted today, even if we had access to the proposals of the 5 Star Movement Group, the procedure would have continued for a number of days to exceed the fateful date of 15 September. Therefore, the exploitation that is now being done has nothing to do with merit, but it is a rascal against a colleague... [[Lively protests by Senators Puglia and Cioffi. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u50	Senator Giovanardi, I would ask you not to warm your spirits, which are already warm.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u51	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) ...to represent that, after four years, six months and I don't know how much more time, it had to expire the day before. And I don't know if this is because of a thirst for revenge or a grudge against someone who came to the office of mayor, was elected, sent the letter that he was to present and submitted to the Junta. [[Comments from Senators Cioffi and Endrizzi.]] He will decline as a senator, because he chose to be mayor. So we, if we had complied with the demands of our colleague, who is not even a member of the Junta, and of his other colleagues, would have violated the Senate Rules and made ourselves an accomplice to a villain. [[Comments from Senators Cioffi, Puglia and Endrizzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u52	Senator Cioffi, please contain your reactions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u53	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) I conclude, Madam President, by saying that, if it is so repellant that in two days' time the senators of this legislature will acquire the right to feel at 65 years of age a vitality, nothing prevents their colleagues in the 5 Star Movement from resigning en masse and, therefore, to have the Senate voted to take over other colleagues, so that they cannot benefit from it. It's very simple. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u54	The Presidency has checked that the procedures laid down in this case have been complied with by the Junta. We therefore turn to the subject on the agenda. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Assembly, by a majority, has proposed to the Assembly that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, whether he intends to supplement the written report. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, please. SANTANGELO (M5S). Get me out of here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not gonna kick her out, but please stick to the rules. I know you'd like it, but nothing. You must respect the rules in this House. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] SANTANGELO (M5S). I'd love to! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, you must postpone this pleasure. Please, Senator Pagliari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u55	Madam President, on 13 December 2016, the Court of Rome transmitted to the Senate a copy of the acts relating to the criminal proceedings against Senator Maurizio Gasparri, in order to ascertain whether or not the conduct which is the subject of the proceedings includes the possibility of the expression of irremissable opinions in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, as they are related to the exercise of the functions performed by a Member of Parliament. The President of the Senate referred this request to the Council on 22 December 2016 and announced it in the Chamber on 10 January 2017. The Junta examined the matter at its meetings on 18 January, 1 and 22 February and 28 March 2017. Senator Gasparri was audited during the session on 1 February 2017 and sent a memo on 9 February 2017. On 25 May 2016, Senator Gasparri published on the Twitter network, through his @gasparripdl account, in response to a user of the same network, a commentary of the following literal tenor: "School example @casaleggio, offend with false accounts and do not accept the truth: you are @SilviaG" dung. This comment was considered of offensive and defamatory value by Mr Davide Casaleggio towards his own and the company that represents him, the Casaleggio Associati Srl, holder of the account Twitter @casaleggio. On 12 July 2016, Mr. Casaleggio filed a complaint against the Republic's Public Prosecutor in the Ancona court against Senator Maurizio Gasparri; the proceedings were then forwarded for territorial competence to the Republic's Public Prosecutor at the Rome Court. The latter has transmitted the acts - using the option referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 3 of Law 140 of 2003 - to the court of Rome, section of the judge for preliminary investigations, which has found that these are statements extramoenia to be submitted to the Chamber of belonging for the assessments in relation to the relevance of the same to the forecast referred to in article 68, paragraph 1, of the Constitution. With regard to the incontrovertibility of the opinions expressed extra-moenia, the Constitutional Court now has a consolidated orientation, by virtue of which the indisputability must be recognized in the presence of the following presuppositions, the first of which forms part of the functional link with parliamentary activity. In particular, a substantial correspondence of meaning, even if not textual, is required between the opinions expressed in the exercise of functions and external acts, beyond the literal formulas used, being not sufficient either a simple commonality of arguments or a mere political context within which the statements extramoenia can be placed. The second condition concerns reasonable contextuality, i.e. the extra-moenia declaration cannot precede the intra-moenia statement (i.e. the opinion expressed in the typical parliamentary forms), nor be from the first much spaced at the temporal level. Finally, the Constitutional Court requires subjective identity, i.e. all statements must be made by the same Member of Parliament. With regard to the reasonable contextuality, the dates of the inspection act 4-05507 of 22 March 2016 and the following tweet of 25 May 2016 highlight the recurrence of this assumption in the present case. The same is true of the subjective identity: both acts, in fact, were carried out by Senator Gasparri. With regard to the functional link, it is necessary to verify the use of a substantial correspondence of meaning, even if not textual, between the opinions expressed in the exercise of the function and external acts. The tweet that originated the lawsuit of Casaleggio Davide, in his own right and as chairman of the board of directors of Casaleggio Associati Srl, reads: "Example of school @casaleggio, offend with false account and do not accept the truth: you are dung @SilviaG". The logical-juridical structure of the incriminated sentence leaves room for two possible interpretations. On the one hand, in fact, it could be considered that the sentence itself consists of two parts, that, even if related, have two different recipients: the House Associati Srl as to \Example of school @casaleggio, offend with false account and do not accept the truth: and Mrs. Silvia G. as to \Siete dungo @Silvia G. This thesis finds a pin of support in the two points, which create an objective caesura between the two parts of the sentence, although the second plural person may be an objective contra-indication to this interpretation. In this perspective, the only phrase of alleged harm to the House Associati Srl would be the first: "Example of school @casaleggio, offend with false account and do not accept the truth: "In any case, being excluded the damage "on its own" for the plaintiff for the well-known principle of the self-denominational subjectivity of limited liability companies, legal persons, compared to that of legal representatives, natural persons, and being the sentence clearly and exclusively referring to the House of Associates Srl. On the other hand, the use of the second plural person could make the sentence considered unique and non-separable, having as recipients both the House Associati Srl and Mrs Silvia G. The proven existence of the latter, however, is an objective obstacle to this second interpretation, requiring starting from the first interpretation. In this perspective, therefore, the alleged damage to the plaintiff is constituted by the first part of the tweet ('Example of school @casaleggio, offend with false account and do not accept the truth:'), directly and exclusively related to the House of Associates Srl and the methods adopted by the same. Having said that, it is noted that the contested tweet expresses a criticism regarding the fundamental choice (they offend people), the consequent communication strategy (they do not accept the truth) and the pre-ordination of the activity of the House Associati Srl to the political battle, conducted with contempt for ethical and legal-constitutional rules. In essence, Senator Gasparri contests the strategy of the mud machine at Casaleggio Associati Srl, aimed at discrediting people, with a lack of respect for the same and the truth, from which he voluntarily ignores. And it is a clear criticism of the House of Associates Srl on the assumption, then proved wrong, that Silvia G. was a false account and that, therefore, the person did not exist and that it was an invented name. Which is like saying that Senator Gasparri's tweet is addressed to Casaleggio Associati Srl, his methods, his political activity, his way of interfering in communication systems, in the correspondence between parliamentarians and citizens, with risks for the freedom of opinions. If so, the substantial correspondence of meaning, postulated by the Constitutional Court, between the previous act of inspection union 4-05507 and the tweet exists because there are the logical and legal reference and reference to the opinions expressed in the act of inspection union and the clear intention to reaffirm a previous conviction: precisely that exhibited in the inspection act of the quo, in which the role of the House of Associates Srl is accused, its methods and the tendency to interfere in the interlocution on social with the telephone chats attached, or the audio corsairs and spies of Facebook. The summary of the statements, contained in Senator Gasparri's trade union act, outlines the Casaleggio Associati Srl as a real structure aimed at controlling the information of the M5S, to guide, as a result, communication in an instrumental key, i.e. for political purposes. Whether this is right or wrong is not a matter for the Junta, but on the logical-legal level it is evident the continuity with the tweet, which realizes the substantial correspondence of meaning indicated by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. On the one hand, in fact, Senator Gasparri speaks of "Example of school @casaleggio," offending with false account and not accepting the truth: "" and the act of inspection union illustrates methods, addresses of activities and tools used by the Casaleggio Associati Srl; methods, addresses of activities and tools that synthetically can be indicated with the expression, in a polemic and synthetic key, of "Scuola @casaleggio" @casaleggio. On the basis of these conclusions, it should be noted that, although the expression'siete dung' is certainly unacceptable, in any case, the substantive correspondence of meaning would not fail, in any case, beyond the colourful expression used, because it could not be considered as a merely confirmatory appreciation of the main accusation and in any case closely linked to it, with the consequent continuation of the requirement of substantial correspondence of meaning. For these reasons, the Junta proposes, by a majority, to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u56	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u59	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, my Group will vote without hesitation in favour of the conclusions proposed to the House by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, not without a heartfelt appreciation of the rapporteur's arguments, which not only have full legal reliability on the level of the three types indicated by the Constitutional Court, but also manage to honour the essential element of any parliamentaryism: freedom of opinion. From this point of view, we are grateful to our colleague and we recognize ourselves in the Junta's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u62	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, we still have long months of hard electoral campaign ahead of us, and perhaps that will be an opportunity to approach one of the perhaps most important political events in Italy in recent decades. We have well understood that what we are waiting for is what we are living in the media, communication and politics already for some time in the parliamentary classrooms. The proposal that the majority today puts before the House, contained in the report of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunities under consideration, is, in short, the following. In my opinion, it is sacred that the institution of indisputability for the opinions and votes expressed in the exercise of the parliamentary mandate, which should represent the Italian people, who elect their representatives in Parliament. The principle is sacrosanct, because it should allow the Member to exercise his mandate freely, without having to fear civil compensation actions or criminal proceedings. And this principle is indisputable. It is difficult for us to deal with anti-politics. And I am referring not to that of the blah blah of the TV talkshows, but to the real one, which we have been facing in the parliamentary classrooms for four and more years, which uses, wisely and with the powerful support of most of the media (if not almost the totality), these principles in the abstract that can be shared. Our commitment is therefore particularly difficult, because it is difficult to explain outside what is happening in the classrooms, the committees and the parliamentary committees. The principle that will pass today if the House votes - and we know it will - in favour of the Junta's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity is the following message: the Member draws a scenario through the submission of a question, therefore in the freedom to support any thesis and knowing that he does not have to answer it in any place, except, theoretically, that political one. In the present case, the Vice President of the Senate, Senator Maurizio Gasparri, presented a parliamentary question in May 2016 - as I recall - when we were in the middle of a media coffin due to fake news and fake social profiles, including that of the grill Beatrice Di Maio, who used improper phrases, abusive and defamatory, as well as fake news. We know how the story ended: the so-called Beatrice Di Maio was actually Mrs Brunetta's spouse and that makes the whole thing quite ridiculous. There'd be a smile. Senator Gasparri presented a parliamentary question claiming that, at the time, it was appropriate to investigate and assess whether the Associate House Srl (which can therefore be offended with impunity, because this will be the result to which you will arrive today) creates fake social profiles, through remote-controlled people who respond to an order given by this phantom and obscure society that, almost worse than the Spectre, pollutes social media with fake news. We have then discovered that, in that case as in many others, the fake news very often comes from the regime press and from the online newspapers recorded. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am referring to what you want to save with the bill on defamation, which will remain free to write any nonsense and false news, knowing that it does not have to be answered at the civil and criminal level and not even in the process of self-regulation of the press. Well, the message that will pass will be as follows: I present a question, I invent an absolutely imaginative scenario, knowing that then the thing will be well pumped by the press; after that, on a social platform like Facebook or Twitter I can insult anyone, give a dung and say anything, knowing that I can shield myself from a parliamentary question. [[Comments of Senator Alicata]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u63	Senator Buccarella, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u64	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Please? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please argue with property. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I did not take the prayer, Madam President. Anyway, I'm starting to finish. What will soon be represented will be this reality. The sacred instruments that the political and democratic parliamentary systems have built, including that of parliamentary indisputability, are used in a turbid and instrumental way, with the bipartisan support of this House that - we see it already now, from our right to our left - will vote in favour of the proposal put forward, thus removing the protection of a citizen who, in this case, is called Davide Casaleggio. But we also listened to the same music for people much less known. In all conscience, do you feel that you should support such an attitude? We do not doubt that you will do so again this time, and today's episode to which my Parent Company referred compared to Senator Cuomo is yet another proof. You continue to represent anti-politics [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] the one that is increasing abstentionism, the one that makes the bellies of part of the country sensitive to simplified and truly demagogic messages. The anti-politics is you and the 5 Star Movement will vote against the Junta's proposal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u67	CUCCA (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the PD's report, which was carried out by Senator Pagliari, on the conditions that have been widely set out. I believe that the content is absolutely clear and it is clear that those who have a different opinion have not read the report well or have not fully understood the meaning of what is written in it in an extremely exhaustive way with reference to Senator Gasparri, of whom we know the intemperances - let us call them so - that are, however, characteristic factors. At other times we have pointed out that those who hold certain positions should maintain or use a different terminology, but - I repeat - these are characteristic factors that certainly do not have to be criticized. We can simply deplore the use of a certain language, but, in this case, it seems absolutely to me that this is a case which falls under the assumption of inconvenibility, since it is a phrase inserted in a very different context. It has already been explained that there were two interlocutors and one cannot make an assessment by extrapolating a word or phrase from the whole context that has seen a prolonged dialogue in which Senator Gasparri has been repeatedly made the subject of numerous insults and as many offenses. This has been taken into account in the evaluation. And to think or just to suppose that some of us Members of Parliament present questions foreordaining the idea of insulting someone seems to me to be really scientific fantasy and it is even naive to say so. I believe that we have first of all the duty to respect the rules, which have been recalled many times. Well, let's all try to get used to complying with the rules, starting with the rules imposed by the Constitution, to which we have all sworn. We should perhaps get used to respecting that content more, unless we then decide to change it, but in order to do so we must follow the rules and procedure once again. For this reason, I confirm my Group's support for the proposal put forward by the rapporteur. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u70	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak on this point, but what my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, and in particular Mr Buccarella, have said, requires me to do. It is unacceptable for colleagues, both in this House and outside, to insult other members of the various political forces where each time one of them is touched, it becomes a matter of harm to the majesty. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Rizzotti.]] Now, Article 68 of the Constitution fully covers the views of parliamentarians both in Parliament and outside, if the statements they make relate to political activity and it is clear that the content of Mr Gasparri's speeches was in relation to specific situations and to general situations that legitimize him to the expressions he has formulated. He may have used a strong tone, I don't usually insult in this way... WOMAN (M5S). You're doing worse! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). If you find once I insulted you improperly, take it out. SANTANGELO (M5S). Improper? BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). After that, I believe that this story needs to be ended so that colleagues in the 5 Star Movement in this House can interrupt anyone, while every time they talk to them, if someone interrupts them, they manifest themselves in an intolerant manner. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u73	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I would like to declare my vote, which will be in favour, despite the fact that we are talking about Senator Gasparri, with whom we have often had disagreements. I simply wanted to stress one aspect that has not been mentioned here and that I find contrary to what Senator Buccarella said. We are not here because it says the name of Senator Gasparri - Senator Gasparri has done so in these five years - but we are here simply because it is Davide Casaleggio, of nobody else; if we really have to gather each time members of the 5 Star Movement start insults via the web, we should stay here from morning to evening, with day and night shifts. I shall therefore vote in favour of this document on a matter of justice. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and Senators Bencini and Gambaro.]] I know exactly what you wrote to me and what my husband removed, because we're not talking about dung, we're talking about a shitty avalanche that came at me. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u74	Senator Bignami, please use appropriate language.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u75	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). If we have to stay on the subject, let's stay on the topic! He knows very well that I donate the words, but I would really like to make a book about everything that has been written, accompanied by all the insults that we have received, not only me, but all those who are called dissidents, expelled, removed, traitors and so on. Therefore, I will simply vote for a matter of justice and freedom, a word that they do not know, because according to the Constitution I now vote freely and not obliged and forced by a "capuncle." [[Applause from the PD, FI-Pdl XVII, AP-CpE-NCD and GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senators Bencini, Gambaro and Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u78	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u79	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Maurizio Gasparri constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u82	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, I did not take part in this vote, nor will I take part in the subsequent votes, in line with what I do during the meetings of the Council. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u83	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senators Stefano Esposito and Franco Mirabelli for the offence referred to in article 595, third paragraph, of the penal code (defamation by means of the press) transmitted by the Court of Rome on March 7, 2017 The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has, by a majority, proposed to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senators Stefano Esposito and Franco Mirabelli constitute opinions expressed by Members of Parliament in the performance of their duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Augello, whether he intends to supplement the written report. 18.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u84	Madam President, I will give a brief summary of the written report, because fortunately we are faced with a case that we might call school, one of those that can be pointed out to university students to understand how, under such circumstances, the principle of insincability provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution applies. In fact, on March 7, 2017, we received the documents relating to a defamation suit forwarded to my colleagues Mirabelli and Esposito by a citizen, Dr Schiavone. The question is very simple: in a tweet and then later in a press conference, according to the plaintiff, the two colleagues had made themselves responsible for the crime of defamation, accusing some associations, and in particular that of the plaintiff citizen, of not being real anti-Mafia associations but rather of doing, directly or indirectly, consciously or unconsciously, the game of the mafia, delegitizing those who fight it. This was the subject of the lawsuit. Now, we can sum up the report because, as in this case, we have no parliamentary record that essentially follows all the statements that have been the subject of a complaint. In particular, we have the meeting of the Commission of Inquiry into the Mafia phenomenon, No 122 of 19 November 2015, in which there is a statement by Senator Esposito that goes exactly in the direction of the statements cited in the complaint and that should then be read by supplementing it with a letter, also in the proceedings of the Anti-Mafia Commission, which spoke exactly of the problems relating to a certain type of activity of certain associations that are self-defining anti-Mafia and that, according to my colleague, are not at all. As far as Mr Mirabelli is concerned, here too we have parliamentary acts relating to the hearing held on 13 January 2016 at sitting No 129 of the Anti-Mafia Commission, in which, in the same way, listening to the response of one of the auditors, Mr Mirabelli took on board the assessments made at that hearing and then made them out in circumstances that were the subject of a complaint. So we have all the elements required by the various decisions of the Constitutional Court both from a temporal point of view, because all these events (the tweet and the press conference) are ordered in such a way that they can certainly be regarded as a moment of disclosure of the positions taken in Parliament, and because these positions have obviously been taken earlier in the same forum. For all these reasons, the rapporteur proposed to the Junta, and from this point of view the Junta endorsed the rapporteur's opinion, that the two colleagues should recognize the indisputability. For the rest, the report is obviously accessible to everyone, having already been printed and distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u85	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u88	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour of the conclusions of the Junta, which are skilfully summarised in Mr Augello's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u91	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are yet another case in which, as Mr Buccarella said just now, a parliamentary act which has its own precise connotation (a report, in the case of Senator Esposito, or some comments made during a hearing in the Anti-Mafia Commission) is being used to justify an attitude and a clear work of defamation towards a third party. Now, I'm not going to go into much detail. I simply ask my fellow Members to do as this parliamentary group has done on a regular basis. In fact, unlike your former President-in-Office of the Council, today your party's secretary, he continues to say, Senators and Members of our Parliamentary Group have never availed themselves of the power and protection provided for in Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I remember that recently Senator Giarrusso here in the Chamber - someone already began to remember him - has openly declared that he renounces any kind of privilege in the procedural field and has asked to be tried; trial which, of course, as was expected, has gone into storage. If this is what Senators Esposito and Mirabelli believe, like any other citizen, they submit to the judgment and confrontation with the other party before a third judge and do not escape it, taking advantage of this impunity that has now become a privilege that you abuse continuously. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u94	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I have nothing to say about the issue of Esposito and Mirabelli because I fully agree with the rapporteur's proposal. On the other hand, I would like to contradict my colleague, Mr Crimes, on what he has just said. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi. Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Giarrusso, both in his memoir to the prosecutor of the competent Republic and in Giunta, had at first instance claimed the cover of Article 68. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]] Then, recalled by the "home mother," he evidently changed his attitude. [[Applause from Senator Cardinals]] Parliamentary acts are all there, including those of the Prosecutor's Office. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u97	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in declaring the Forza Italia Group's vote in favour of the Junta's report, I would like to remind you of the reasons behind Article 68 of the Constitution - adopted in 1947 and not in 1994 - and that a similar rule is laid down in every other democratic country in the world. If a Member attacks much more powerful interests than his person, such as a company or a group of interest, the aforementioned interest groups certainly have a lot to pay for lawyers, but much more than a Member can afford to do. He has the right to carry out his battles, to be judged by the voters at the end of his term of office and not to fear spending more than he is given to pay the lawyers and to face judicial cases when he denounces what he considers wrong and what he considers to be a harm to the Italian people. Each has its enemies, the 5 Star Movement has its own, as well as others have their own goals. On this day, we have witnessed the exchange of strong words by members of various parties against various political opponents of the moment. A Member of Parliament must have the right to do so, of course if he does so during the course of his term of office and within the framework of his duties, as has been the case in the cases we are examining today, without having to measure his words and feel embarrassed if he decides to call a thief someone he considers to be a thief, if he decides to call a profiteer or if he decides to say that a certain group of interest, a certain company or a certain nation harms the Italian people. This is an instrument of democracy. The privilege is a whole other thing and, in any case, the citizens have the right and the duty to decide in the end how a Member has used his prerogatives. I would point out that we cannot say that they should defend themselves in court, because I remember that taking a defamation suit today can cost a lot of money and that, if the accused person is not convicted, they are forced to pay a very high amount in addition to the lawyer. Therefore, if there is any major interest that can afford to make a lawsuit whenever someone disturbs him, this does not apply to a Member of Parliament. That is why this protection is necessary and if there is a part that is intolerant and that to every insult denounces and brings others to court, it cannot this part have the upper hand on a Member who has the courage to say what he thinks, that is different from saying the absolute truth, that no one possesses, at least in politics. I would have liked to read, but then I thought it was not the case, about the articles I found easily on the Internet where there are some kind words with which Mr. Beppe Grillo, leader of the 5 Star Movement, called political opponents - sometimes relatives of political opponents - one of our 100-year-old colleagues and another important exponent of our public life with expressions that frankly go beyond the offensive. They're not even insults, but horrible and obscene things, but if no one's sued him, it doesn't mean they're okay. If tolerance is exchanged, the acceptance of a political dog in which if one enters can happen to be attacked (it happens to each of us), then by acquiescence one has not entered in the spirit with which the whole of our Constitution has been written and, in particular, Article 68, a part of which remains in force to protect parliamentarians who have the courage to say what they think. This courage is needed in any case because putting oneself against certain interests can be dangerous, beyond judicial sanctions. A Member of Parliament who says that a certain person, a certain group or a certain entity goes against the interests of the country must only be afraid of the judgment of the voters, or unfortunately of some revenge anything but judicial - what happened in the past: some politicians have paid very dearly and directly for having touched too large interests - but not to spend time in court and have to pay the lawyer to defend themselves, instead of doing what he was elected for and that is to defend the interests of citizens as he believes in conscience. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u100	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u101	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to decide that the statements made by Senators Stefano Esposito and Franco Mirabelli constitute opinions expressed by Members of Parliament in the performance of their duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u102	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for authorization to use telephone conversations of Senator Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco in the context of a criminal proceeding pending against her (No. 11985/15 RGNR - No. 4994/16 RG GIP) transmitted by the Judge for preliminary investigations at the Court of Verona on 26 May 2017 The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly the refusal of the authorization to use for the twenty intercepts taken after March 9, 2015 and the granting of the authorization to use for the only interception before that date, that is that of February 26, 2015. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Buemi, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u103	Mr President, albeit in a nutshell, as the full report is filed in the proceedings of this House and therefore allows all colleagues to take note of the most comprehensive content, some elements must be put forward. Senator Bonfrisco is investigated, together with Gaetano Zoccatelli, in relation to the offences referred to in Articles 416, 318 and 321 of the Criminal Code. According to the head of provisional attribution, Senator Bonfrisco, for the exercise of her duties and powers, had unduly accepted the promise, receiving for herself and for others, money and other utility from Gaetano Zoccatelli, CEV Director General (Consorzio Energia Veneto), as well as Managing Director of Global Power SpA and E-Global Service SpA, thereby promoting and strengthening the criminal partnership constituted by the CEV and thus providing political support to the same, at whose apex was the aforementioned Zoccatelli. The request for authorisation concerns 21 telephone conversations recorded between 26 February 2015 and 14 October 2015 in criminal proceedings No 15396. In reconstructing the case, the judge for preliminary investigations premierees that in the context of the original proceedings, which sees Mr Gaetano Zoccatelli as the main defendant, proceeds for the crime of association for criminals aimed at the commission of an indefinite number of auction disruptions, as well as for other crimes-purpose related to the disturbance, among others, of two contests banned by the public CEV for the supply of electricity, as well as episodes of fake in public act relating to the minutes of competition. In a nutshell, he explained to the judge for the preliminary investigation that Gaetano Zoccatelli would have full management powers both in the consortium, which indicated the tenders, and at the same time in a group of commercial companies operating in the energy sources market, such as Global Power SpA and E-Global Service SpA. It is stated that Mr Zoccatelli, as well as both companies blamed for the criminal administrative offence, defined the trial with the application of the sentence during the preliminary hearing (judgment passed to trial), while for the other defendants the trial of first instance is in progress (page 4 of the order). He reported that, in the course of the above procedure, transactions were authorised to intercept conversations and communications put in place by Gaetano Zoccatelli, the main suspect, also with the telephone users referred to in RIT no. 72 of 2015. These operations began on 25 February 2015 and lasted until 19 February 2016. He stressed the judge for preliminary investigations that, during these operations, a series of conversations were recorded, which focused more over the period from June 2015 to July 15, 2015, from which he obtained as Zoccatelli Gaetano prodigies to obtain the inclusion of the CEV in the list of 35 aggregate subjects. The judge for the preliminary investigations emphasizes in particular the relevance of the annotation of 20 October 2015, with which the judicial police, in condensing the content of the intercepted conversations, has evidenced that the investigations focused on the search for elements of comfort to the investigative hypothesis borne by Zoccatelli Gaetano and his closest collaborators, as they went on, led to outline the role of the Senator, which appeared not only to know of the mixture of the latter's roles in the CEV, but as a stable promoter. Against the background of the work carried out, Senator Bonfrisco would have seen the achievement of a number of advantages, such as a contribution to support the election campaign of a politician in the local elections in Veneto and the full payment of a summer stay. It is clear from the order that, following the aforementioned annotation of the judicial police of 20 October 2015, has been registered, at the expense of Gaetano Zoccatelli and Cinzia Bonfrisco, a procedure for the hypothesis of crime referred to in articles 416, first paragraph, 318 and 321 of the penal code. In summary, the judge for preliminary investigations considers that the conversations of which authorization to use is required appear relevant for the purposes of the investigations as some attest the level of confidence, habituality and variety of relations between the senator and Gaetano Zoccatelli, as well as the parliamentary activity carried out by Senator Bonfrisco in favor of the CEV and the awareness of the latter of the anomalies constituted by the mixture between CEV and companies of the Zoccatelli group. In relation to the latter, in particular, the conversations of 25 May 2015 and 9 June 2015 would appear relevant - according to the judge for preliminary investigations - in relation to the contribution to the election campaign of the above-mentioned councillor. The judge for the preliminary investigation considers that the interceptions covered by the request are of a random nature as the transactions have been authorized in respect of a person other than Senator Bonfrisco. The judge for the preliminary investigation states that the criminal activity under investigation therefore did not deal with episodes of corruption and that the type of relationship between the parliamentarians and the subject subject subject to control did not appear, on the occasion of the collections, as already characterized by illegal value. In fact, he argued that the evidence against the Member of Parliament would only be raised as a result of the emergence of the circumstance of the payment. In order to assess the need for evidence of the interceptions, it is found that the activity of interest assumed to have constituted the performance of the corrupting agreement would have been carried out mostly with telephone contacts from the senator and that the intercepting activity would have found also the advantages achieved; it is noted that the contacts occurred in the period coeval to the approval of an amendment and that it would not be possible to investigate the circumstance of the propriety between activities of the senator and advantages bestowed by the Zoccatelli in a way other than the use of the listed telephone interceptions. In the present case it is not likely that the prosecutor has learned of the involvement in the investigations of Senator Bonfrisco seven months after the phone call of 9 March 2015 (i.e. with the written communication of the judicial police of 20 October 2015), being instead plausible that the police immediately informed the same in light of the relevance of the intercepted, of such a significant circumstance. It is therefore not plausible, in the light of the above considerations, that the interceptions received after 9 March 2015 are occasional and consequently the court's request for authorisation for preliminary investigations in relation to them must be rejected. With regard to the interceptions in question, it appears unnecessary to examine in the light of the parameter of the necessity of the act (like the criteria enucleated in the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 188 of 2010), given that, as so far demonstrated, the non-occasionality of the collections determines the non-automability of the use of the same towards Senator Bonfrisco and consequently the judgment of necessity must be considered, so to speak, absorbed in the assessment of non chance. For the reasons set out above, the Giunta has decided, by majority, to propose to the Shareholders' Meeting the refusal of the authorization to use for the twenty intercepts taken after March 9, 2015 and the granting of the authorization to use for the only interception before that date, that is that of February 26, 2015, with reference to document IV, n. 15. My fellow Members allow me to make a few more general comments on parliamentary immunity and limits to criminal jurisdiction. The presentation of this assessment is on the record but I would like to refer some questions to the House because it must be clear that the House itself is aware of these aspects. Apart from the profiles inherent to the interceptions and to the request for authorization in question, it is considered useful to dwell, ad abundantiam, on the fact that, in the case at hand, the union carried out by the judicial authority on the amending activity carried out in Parliament by Senator Bonfrisco constitutes an undue interference in parliamentary activities carried out within the framework of which, moreover, the votes and opinions expressed cannot be evaluated from the criminal point of view. It is significant in this regard to recall that, although with reference to thematic areas of different nature, the Constitutional Court in judgment No 379 of 1996 found that the activity carried out by the members of the Chambers [...] It may not be the subject of an inquisitive activity of the public prosecutor or of a finding by the court. Criminal, civil and administrative jurisdiction must therefore stop at the threshold of the parliamentary classrooms, and it cannot in any way carry out an assessment of activities carried out in such fora, which involve political assessments, indispensable as such and necessarily free for the political purposes to be pursued. It should also be pointed out that judgment n. 390 of 2007 is clear, in the sense that only an internal remedy to the trial, or to the limit a conflict of attribution, can sanction the invasive act constituted by the interception captured in the awareness of the potential to stumble into the conversations of a parliamentarians. The solution to this request could therefore not be other than the return of the documents to the judicial authority. But the problem must be posed if the Junta and the Senate can express a refusal to defend the typical parliamentary activity and from where the boundaries of the typical act are dehumanized. The magistrate is bound by the wording of Law No 140 of 2003; Article 3, read systematically, could require that the judge be required - while not sharing it - to transmit the acts to the competent Chamber. This reading helps to ensure that Parliament's preliminary ruling avoids any breach of parliamentary immunity in the courts. Colleagues, the exposure would still be long. I believe that I have put this matter in such a way that you are interested in it, and in this respect I would draw the attention of this House not only to this matter, but also to the other events that have taken place in relation to our colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u104	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Resign!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u105	If it's to please my colleagues in the League, I can do it, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u106	Do not collect, Senator Falanga; the subject is already delicate, we do not create distractions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u107	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I very much appreciated the Junta's report because it was the subject of this debate. The question is precisely centered on the conversation of March 9, 2015, which occurred not already between Senator Bonfrisco and the defendants or one of the defendants, but between such Zoccatelli and Bottacin. In this call, reference is made to the hiring of such Roberta Ferrara, a person known and still close to Senator Bonfrisco. This phone call, for the truth, is not taken into consideration by the prosecutor, because the prosecutor considers that there are no profiles of criminal importance. That is, Senator Bonfrisco receives a favor from a general manager of a company, in exchange for any parliamentary amending activity, activity that took place in April 2015 (so in the context of the call). The gip, who asked for permission to use the conversations, writes that the type of relationship between the parliamentarians and the subject under control did not appear, on the occasion of the captures, as already characterized by illegal value. That is, the judge states in his report that this phone call and these conversations, although between subjects other than Senator Bonfrisco and who referred to a favor that Senator Bonfrisco would receive from this gentleman, consisting in the recruitment of a person close to Senator Bonfrisco, have no criminal relevance. Well, this circumstance, which the same gip says is not relevant criminally, becomes an indictment when you apply for permission to use the interceptions. Gentlemen, you said the Junta well, you wrote well the rapporteur: a judicial police that listens to such a phone call, do we want to imagine that you did not tell the prosecutor? You informed him, you did inform him. Perhaps you, who are not practitioners of justice, do not attend the courtrooms of the prosecutors and tribunals, but the relations between the prosecutor and the police who investigate are of daily contact. I cannot be fooled by anyone when I am told that this important circumstance had not been referred to the prosecutor. The prosecutor was not satisfied with this phone call, which in itself could not constitute a crime hypothesis against Senator Bonfrisco; he needed more and therefore continued with interceptions to aim exclusively at being able to contest delittuous hypotheses to Senator Bonfrisco. We know how "appetite" we are for the prosecutors of the Republic: how they feel the name of a congressman or a senator get excited and therefore with this excitement they continue to investigate for the most various reasons. However, allowed and not allowed that Senator Bonfrisco had cooperated in the adoption of an amendment, this activity intervenes - as the Junta has already said - that barrier. Attention, the central point of the matter is that I am not defending Senator Bonfrisco. It is a fine expression of the Junta when it says that justice and jurisdiction stand before that threshold in the Chambers and in Parliament. They must stop and respect those who think they are entering this House, not already through the main door, but possibly through secondary entrances, we cannot be so inattentive that we do not notice this activity, which I think is presumptuous, as I want to call it (I have a lot of respect for the judiciary and I have always said so). The gip claims that this conversation has no criminal relevance and therefore does not believe to register Senator Bonfrisco in the register of suspects. I believe that all the conversations between these two subjects Bottacin and Zoccatelli following this are all intercepted in bad faith with an intent of persecution and therefore I think a fumus persecutionis; I think it precisely in the investigation activity and it is in those cases that I have to stop the hand of those who have certain intentions with the investigation activity. Moreover, some examples of a person physically close to me have shown that we cannot criticize a parliamentary activity by giving it a criminal significance (some of these decisions have concerned people still present in this House). We in those cases have to make sure it stops. Personally, the Group to which I belong, bitterly learning such an activity by its judiciary, the Italian judiciary, strongly states that we cannot authorize the use of telephone pick-ups that have not been correctly and legitimately collected by the prosecutor and for these reasons we reiterate our vote. For the truth, I would not have allowed the use of the phone call of February 26 that you want to transmit, precisely because it too has no criminal relevance. I don't know why the Junta almost wanted to say: Well, let's give him a little something. I wouldn't have given him anything, also because of that little thing we really give him they won't know what to do with it, because in that intercepted call of February 26 there is no element of criminal importance. Therefore, if you want to do so, do so, but as of now in this House I am crying out that the facts which are not criminally relevant cannot be challenged by a person who plays an institutional role in the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u108	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u111	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to announce to the House that I do not participate in the vote, expressing my utmost respect for the vote of all my colleagues, who will express themselves, as they have already done in the Council of Parliament's elections and immunity, according to their conscience, in favour of or against the Junta's report. To the work and the work of the Junta I intend to return having nothing else to add but to reaffirm my absolute submission to the parliamentary institution and its indispensable autonomy. In the same way, I mean, I want and I must bring the same respect for the autonomy of the judicial investigation that is carried out when, with respect and within the limits of the rule of law, anyone can be investigated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u114	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, my Group will vote in favour of the report by the Parliamentary Assembly on elections and parliamentary immunity. It takes on two formal aspects which seem absolutely central to us. On the one hand, the non-occasionality of the interceptions; in this respect, also formally, the granting of authorization to the first interception, which is the only one that can actually be done by chance, has a profile of formal correctness that we want to reiterate. On the other hand, the impossibility of judging the amending activity, as well as all the parliamentary activity of each member of this assembly and of the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, allow me to make a strictly personal point. I would urge all colleagues to take the file and read the wiretapping. I have the conviction, that I believe it can be shared, that those interceptions, some in particular, would have facilitated the defendant's procedural path. However, when there are rules and respect for the rule of law, we also bear the burden of not having any advantages in order to prevent a sort of bad habit from weakening the parliamentary institutions, the Parliament of which we are all members. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u117	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to begin my speech with the invitation to come, gentlemen, to the feast of impunity. Today is the day of impunity. After giving Senator Cuomo the opportunity to benefit from his pension after four years and six months of unceasing work in this House - which will, of course, result in hives for the many citizens who work forty years in order to have a rag of retirement - we are witnessing the third case in which the Senate defends itself by using this impunity and privilege in some way. I keep saying that. Let's figure out what we're talking about right now. We're not discussing Senator Bonfrisco's guilt. Nobody's arguing about Senator Bonfrisco's possible responsibilities. We are discussing the usability or not of interceptions that if actually Senator Bonfrisco, as you claim and of course will support in the courts, has no responsibility, they can only bring a benefit to your cause and nothing else. What are we authorising today (because we already know what you will vote on)? We're telling any criminal that, if he thinks he's being intercepted and investigated, he needs to get a congressman's cell phone number and call him one, two, three times, even to bother him. In fact, at some point the judge will have to stop. In front of someone who keeps calling a congressman, the judge will no longer be able to proceed, but he will have to stop and ask for permission. In fact, that's what we're saying. What happened in the case of Senator Bonfrisco? There was a character, Mr. Zoccatelli, under investigation and intercepted. Mr. Zoccatelli was a friend of Senator Bonfrisco's, with whom they knew each other from an old date and, therefore, occasionally called her. What was the prosecutor supposed to do when, casually and incidentally and without any relevance in that process, Senator Bonfrisco appeared in the intercepts? Should he stop and alert the Assembly and the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities? In other words, he had to warn the intercepted that they were intercepting him. The invitation you make now to all thugs and mobsters is to pick up a congressman's phone number and call him, so that he can be unpunished. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from PD and FL Groups (Id-PL, PLI)]] This is what you are doing today and it is not the first time. In fact, what happened? For 17 or 18 times it is intercepted, I repeat casually, the phone call, which has no relevance in the investigation for disturbance of the auction on Mr. Zoccatelli (the investigation has nothing to do with what came after). In October, reading the transcripts of the latest interceptions, it turns out that perhaps - I repeat, perhaps, because the judges will decide this - there is another strand of investigation that concerns the alleged relationships between Senator Bonfrisco and Mr Zoccatelli, which relate to something else. A new investigation file is then opened. In the light of the new information, the previous intercepts, which previously were of no importance and were abandoned in a drawer, take on another aspect, as they provide elements that, together with the latest intercepts, open another strand of investigation. I repeat, I do not know how it will end at the judicial level, but it is a new strand of investigation. Today the judges simply ask us to be able to use the intercepts that were taken randomly in the initial phase and only later, at the time of the transcription, we realized that they could have procedural value. The question to be asked is as follows. We have to give the judge the tools to play his third role, with all the elements in hand, or we have to tell him: you will have to judge with your hands tied, your eyes blindfolded and your mouth closed because we prevent you from using the intercepts? Today we are faced with the yet another chapter of the saga of impunity, which starts with Senator Cuomo and ends with Senator Bonfrisco. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u120	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I had decided not to speak, but after Senator Crimi's speech I have to ask myself if there is probably anything we can no longer understand. With regard to Senator Bonfrisco, we are discussing a matter of fact. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, albeit by a majority, has recognised that there is a fumus persecutionis and, indeed, a series of non-random interceptions. On the basis of the fumus persecutionis the Junta should have said that for all phone calls no authorization should be granted. Instead, the good Buemi, who wanted to be as precise as a jurist, said that the first phone call is out of that period and wanted to grant permission. You cannot continue with the story of impunity as if there were a rule in this Parliament that applies to you this way: if the accusation concerns others then it is truthful, it is absolute truth; if it concerns any of you it becomes a fake news. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] That's crazy. You can't keep saying that all the news about Casaleggio or others is fake news. I have no truth for anyone; I am at the cards, the laws, the acts, and each of us, as today on the Coman affair, applies the norms of the Rules of Procedure and the laws without making distinctions. What's true for me is for Senator Crimes, for Senator Buccarella, it's true for everyone. A distinction cannot be made according to membership. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD and GAL groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u123	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I did not intend to speak on this matter either, which seemed so straightforward and simple to me, even in the presentation of the absolutely comprehensive report, but I feel it is my duty to do so after Mr Crimes' statements, because frankly it seems to me that they are only the result of an early election campaign. One arrives at mystifying the truth and reality of things by resorting to absolutely untruthful arguments. Let us start from the assumption that we are talking here once again, for the umpteenth time, as I said in the previous speech, about strict observance of the constitutional dictation. This is what we are talking about, what the Constitution provides for with regard to the activities of Members of Parliament. And yet, you get to mystify reality by omitting to say unless... But I do not want to believe us, considering the wisdom of Senator Crimes and his attention to the events he deals with - that in the papers that have received the Junta there is also the text of the examination, which we all know, which was made by Senator Bonfrisco, who immediately submitted to the interrogation, confirming exactly the precise content, "paro paro" of all telephone interceptions, as they say. This means, however, that Senator Bonfrisco has nothing to hide and that this branch of Parliament does not intend to subtract anything from the judge who is dealing with the matter, who already has in full control the contents of the telephone interceptions as the subject of the statements made by Senator Bonfrisco. I am going back to saying that we are simply applying the Constitution here and we have decided to authorize the use of the intercepts of which we assume the interlocutor was unknown and in which, therefore, the qualification of Senator Bonfrisco was not yet known. For the others it is evident - it is in the acts - that the listener was aware of the identity of one of the interlocutors, that is Senator Bonfrisco, so we decided to declare it unusable. This is the story. We stick to the rules once again, to the constitutional dictation. Once again we try to mystify reality for demagogic purposes. I would like to remind you of one important thing: what Senator Crimi said, that is, that it is enough that a criminal contacts a Member of Parliament, is nonsense; let me define it as such because if that criminal is subject to investigation he will have his phone intercepted and his phone calls will all be used; they cannot be used, by virtue of the constitutional dictation, talks with a Member of Parliament. If, then, there were actually different types of content and you didn't know the identity, it is clear that the situation is different. I repeat, however, that there is nothing that hinders the investigation and the cognitive activity in relation to those specific facts in this affair. No one is covered here, the investigation goes on equally with regard to those responsible, for whom the judiciary will be responsible. Here we talk about something else and it is useless to continue - I insist - for purely propaganda and electoral purposes, to mystify the truth. We respect the Constitution and we all try to defend it together, because that is also our duty and that is what we should always do not adapting to the needs of the day. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u126	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u127	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to reject the authorization to use the twenty interceptions received after 9 March 2015 and to grant permission to use the only interception prior to that date, i.e. 26 February 2015. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would remind you that the President of the Senator Stephen, as usual, did not take part in the vote and would like this to remain in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u130	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, Carrara is a city decorated with gold medals to civil valor, land that has seen the life of many people cut off from the Nazi-fascist fury, so it is not acceptable that in this territory someone can boldly flaunt the fascist flag of the Italian Social Republic, even a stone's throw from the shrine of the victims of the Vinca massacre, where 173 unarmed people were killed. You cannot accept the praise of the executioners who bloodied Carrara and the entire Peninsula. For this reason, today I have a question addressed to Minister Minniti and Minister Fedeli on the case of the fascist flag presented by the Carrara teacher Manfredo Bianchi on Monte Sagro and Monte Brugiana and I invite all colleagues who strongly believe in the anti-fascist principles to subscribe to my question and thank them. An intolerable gesture to which his statements are added in a national radio broadcast, in which he expresses admiration for Mussolini, called "the best Italian statesman of all time" and appreciation for Hitler's economic policy. These acts are extremely serious because he is a professor of a high school that should be a model for the younger generations, and it is serious that even a city councilman in Carrara has endorsed this gesture with his participation. In condemning the crimes committed by the Nazi-fascists there must be unity on the part of all political forces. Fascism, as Congressman Giacomo Matteotti recalled, is not an opinion, but a crime. Waiting for justice to play its part and for the inspectors of the Ministry of Education to check the situation, I suggest to those who raised the fascist flag on Mount Sagro and Mount Brugiana to read the history of the twenty months of Nazi-fascist occupation. He would notice that the fascists of Salò were complicit in the massacres, devastations and lootings. Manfredo Bianchi describes Salò's military as the only ones who would keep Italy's name high after September 8. Nothing more false. The Nazi army and the army of the Italian Social Republic in the territory of Carrara alone were guilty of heinous crimes, carrying out a military occupation made of abuse, abuse and abuse of all kinds against the civilian population. Among the terrible massacres commemorating each year in the Municipality of Carrara are: the massacres of Castelpoggio (33 victims), Bergiola Foscalina (72 victims) and Avenza (11 victims). It is a tragic story made up of deportations of thousands of young people who were imprisoned and forced to reach Germany on crashed wagons, young people torn from their families, mothers who had no children, wives without husbands, children who claimed their fathers. Many never returned home. The acts carried out by Professor Manfredo Bianchi are therefore particularly serious and detrimental to the memory and values on which our country and our Constitution are founded, born from the Resistance and courage of those men who opposed Nazi Fascism. I therefore call on the Ministers whom I have asked to speak as soon as possible on what I have denounced in my question. In this historical period it is easy to forget the consequences of an authoritarian and extremist drift. We have a duty to the younger generations never to lower their guard and avoid any cultural embarrassment. Carrara, the 5 Star Movement and Italy all do not forget. I await the signatures of my colleagues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u133	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, with my speech I would like to draw the attention of the Government to a very serious incident which took place last night in the Municipality of Saronno. Six cars (the car park of the Municipality of Saronno) were given to flames at nighttime with an action that certainly has an intimidating character. I had the opportunity to talk about it with the mayor, who obviously filed a complaint, and in addition to the dismay of the same, we must record that of the entire city that remains stunned in front of an episode that has no equal in that reality. We are faced with an action against the municipal administration of Saronno, and who of course represents it, which must be the subject of the utmost attention from the investigators and from the Government so that, as soon as possible, those responsible for this terrible act of intimidation are assured to the law and especially because (and I add this having given us a due reflection) all the circumstances that are around this episode are evaluated in time. In Saronno already in the past years we have had episodes of violence and strong intimidation by the social centers towards the Municipality and the doubt that these episodes can be related to these facts arises spontaneously. Of course, as I said, Mr President, we ask that the Government act in every way in the most determined way, giving support with investigative actions that prevent those who have made this gesture can send a message of challenge to the institutions and can have the satisfaction of terror and intimidation towards the subjects, in this case the City, who have been affected by it. On this matter, of course, we will be asking a question to know what emerges. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u136	WOMAN (M5S). Mr. President, love doesn't kill. A few days ago the Durini family denounced the disappearance of Noemi, a 16-year-old girl from Specchia, a town of just under 5,000 inhabitants in the province of Lecce. Feverish research in the past days in abandoned cottages, caves, dirt roads, wells and countryside of the country has served no purpose. Noemi's young life, unfortunately, has been interrupted. Today his body was found in Castrignano del Capo, in San Giuseppe, in the province of Lecce. Apparently, this is yet another dramatic story of violence against women because the newspapers tell us that Noemi didn't fall, she didn't get her own death, but she was killed by a 17-year-old boyfriend, her boyfriend, who seems to have confessed to the murder. Love doesn't kill. According to the latest news, in fact, investigators were brought to the scene by the boyfriend, now investigated, together with his father, for voluntary murder. Love doesn't kill. A story of unheard of brutality that leaves speechless and that reopens a dramatic wound. In Italy, every two days, a woman is killed. Every year there is an impressive list of attacks, persecution, abuse and abuse of all kinds. Numbers that make impression, especially because, in most cases, the enemy is located within the domestic walls, among those that should be their own affections. Love doesn't kill. Noemi, a little girl with a thousand dreams, will never go back to school, will no longer go out with her friends, will not worth the goals and difficulties of life, because blind violence has prevailed over everything, digging a painful furrow. Love doesn't kill. To Noemi's family, to his friends and to those who really wanted them, our embrace and deep sorrow go well. Today another terrible page of hatred and bullying has been written. Love doesn't kill. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u139	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make this speech which fits perfectly into the current situation of these days, in which we are talking about pensions or allowing someone to have some career endings that are facilitated. I refer in particular to the case of the appointment by Minister Franceschini of Dr Carla Di Francesco as Secretary General of the Ministry, which we know is the highest office within the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities. We consider this appointment not adequate and very questionable, both in the choice and in the timing, since Dr. Di Francesco should retire in May 2018 and this appointment seems a gift of end of career for an executive who, in our opinion, does not seem to have distinguished himself particularly for the decisions he made in his career as regional director of cultural heritage. For example, I quote a few cases in which Dr. Di Francesco has drawn heavy criticism of the questionable decisions she has taken. I start from two cases concerning my Region, Emilia-Romagna, at the time when Carla Di Francesco was regional director for cultural heritage. The first concerns the building commissioned by Guglielmo Marconi, Nobel Prize winner for Physics, and in which the Nobel Prize winner carried out his experiments. It seems that the decision of the then regional director Carla Di Francesco not to impose a constraint on the building has allowed to raze to the ground this architectural good of great historical value to make room for a shopping center that seems to have never been realized. In Ravenna instead, Dr. Di Francesco seems to have unilaterally taken the decision to modify the indirect constraint, already affixed by the Superintendence of Ravenna, which protected the beautiful Palazzo San Giacomo of Russi, in the province of Ravenna, in order to adapt it to the technical requirements related to the construction of a plant with biomass just 147 meters away from this architectural jewel, case that we are following from the beginning of this legislature. Finally, Dr. Di Francesco would have bypassed, with the same approach, the negative opinion of the superintendence for the architectural goods and the landscape of Milan, and would therefore have issued a positive opinion for the construction of an underground parking lot near the Basilica of Sant'Ambrogio. So - and I conclude, but I could list others - Dr. Di Francesco would also have been at the center of an investigation activated by the State Accounting Office for 400,000 euros of public funds destined for the restoration of the Cathedral of Modena after the earthquake that hit Emilia-Romagna in May 2012, for having broken these public funds and related contracts. Dr. Di Francesco then, on her own admission, will declare herself to have forced the law to make possible - she says - the continuation of the restoration work and therefore do not run the risk of interrupting them. On all these facts I put a question to Minister Franceschini and I have officially asked the President of the Committee on Culture to convene the same Minister for an urgent hearing in the Joint Committees on this appointment because I believe that in this country we must finally call to our responsibilities those who make appointments dictated by the desire to make gifts to their friends rather than by the principle of putting in apical positions competent people.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u142	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, on Monday evening, in the Lecce-Martina Franca railway route, operated by the South East Railways - which, as you know, have passed under the direct management of the State Railways in recent months - a collision between two trains has been risked. Since it is a line that has already been the subject, in June, of a clash, fortunately without victims, between trains and as the situation that has led the State Railways and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to commission in fact that society is quite well known (including the dramatic budget hole), I signal it since it has not had particular titles in the national newspapers. I believe that the action of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on the issue of safety on regional lines is important and that it is good to always focus on what happens, especially in situations where problems seem not to be resolved despite the timely intervention to improve safety. I think it is a sensitive issue and in the next few days I will be presenting a more general question on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u143	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-874.ana.u144	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 14 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.39.
