ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2882. The working rapporteur, Senator Verducci, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. By not making any comments, the request is deemed to have been accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u5	Mr President, the subject of this bill is the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecasting. It is, ladies and gentlemen, an intergovernmental organization based in the United Kingdom, set up in 1975. The centre is currently supported by 22 European Member States - including, in addition to many European Union countries, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Serbia and Turkey - and twelve observer States, including Israel, Morocco and Macedonia. Its main task is to provide global weather forecasts in the medium term to national forecasting services, for strategic-military and civil purposes, and in particular to signal the possible occurrence of dangerous weather conditions. For these activities, the Centre makes use of very high performance processing systems, installed at the head office of the organization. The Centre has, among other things, the largest archive of numerical data on weather forecasts. In 2015, the Institute decided to conduct an international competition to establish the location of the new data centre, the largest in the world, after considering the UK's location proposals to be unsatisfactory. The competition was won - in December 2016 - by the consortium company ASTER of Emilia-Romagna - among whose members there are the Region, the local universities and research entities such as CNR, ENEA, and the National Institute of Nuclear Physics. The project was assessed as the best of those received, both technically and financially. In addition to the Municipality of Bologna and the Emilia-Romagna Region, it has been strongly supported by the Government, which, in the 2017 budget law, has already allocated total resources of 52 million euros. The European Centre, once the works of infrastructure preparation have been completed, will be hosted in the Tecnopolo area of Bologna, in the area of the former tobacco manufacturing. Needless to point out that this is a reason of great satisfaction for our country, which will benefit not only in terms of international prestige, but also for the positive economic repercussions. The draft ratification law consists of four articles, which concern the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial provisions and the entry into force. The economic burdens include: a total expenditure of 40 million euros for the three-year period 2017-2019, with resources already made available, as mentioned, by the law of stability 2017; an annual financial contribution of 4 million euros per year since 2019 and a state contribution for an additional 250,000 euros per year (from 2020) to the Emilia-Romagna Region, for the maintenance of the premises of the area. This is a very important result for our country, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues who have followed this measure and, in particular, Senator Sangalli. (Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u7	Mr President, as the rapporteur has pointed out, this is a measure which has already been examined and, although it is an agreement signed a short time ago, it is necessary to make a quick decision which could have been made earlier. But finally something arrives in our country. Although it is a matter that someone may consider to be minor for the overall interests of our country, it is a measure that further qualifies the specificities of our country, in an area in which we are already well placed within a ranking that sees us as the premier of other advanced countries from the point of view of the search of the weather forecasts. A work has been carried out in the Commission for which I particularly thank the rapporteurs. We can only vote in favour of this measure, which we will reiterate in the explanation of vote. This is a measure that may come a little late, but better late than never. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u8	The general debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u9	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.41 a.m. and resumed at 10.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u11	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I put to the vote Rule 2. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u14	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, with a thread of irony (which, however, has not been transposed), I said better late than never. The measure before us comes to the House at a much faster time than others, whose ratification by Parliament took years and years. This measure was issued on June 22, 2017 and comes today to our approval. As I said, there will be benefits for our country, and in particular for the city of Bologna because the headquarters will receive important investments - we are talking about 20 million euros - and in the years to come appropriations that will allow to keep up to date the necessary equipment to carry out the task assigned to this data processing meteo center. I believe that this must lead us to vote in favour, also because if such an important service at supranational level is brought to our country, will also be generated an induced one that will certainly have positive repercussions not only on the city of Bologna but on the whole surrounding area, especially for the companies that will be called to contribute to the improvement of the technological performance in terms of results. For these reasons, I repeat our Group's vote in favour of the draft law before us. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u17	WRITER IN TOR (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I repeat the importance of this investment in our country. He then announced the positive vote of the Alternative Popular Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u20	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement supports the approval of this measure with the hope that what is planned both in the sources of financing and in the commitments by the Government, the Emilia-Romagna Region and the Municipality of Bologna will be realized on time to ensure that the arrival in Italy of the headquarters of the Centre cannot arouse neither from the British authorities that leave this competence to our country, nor from the authorities of the countries of the Union any doubts. So as we have already done for all the articles, we will vote in favour of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u23	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, first of all, I apologise for the delay, due to the simultaneous establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Banks and the vote on the Rules of Procedure, which is always a complex procedure. In announcing with pleasure the vote in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like, as the previous speaker has done, to stress the importance of this Centre. Meanwhile, it is a Centre that has seen the convergence of various institutions, the highest Italian scientific institutions, those of the Region and the various universities of Emilia-Romagna, as well as the strong support from the Government. We do not get this Centre because of Brexit, because the race was previous to it. We won a race that saw us compete with the centers and the scientific offer of other countries. So, it's a special arrangement that makes us proud. I am also particularly pleased that thanks to the Foreign Affairs Committee, emigration, as Senator Stucchi pointed out, this ratification is being voted on almost in real time. In fact, we were chosen in Europe on 22 June 2017 and it would have been serious, while we are running Milan for the transfer to that Municipality of another important European Authority, if we had taken a long time to ratify this agreement by procrastinating this choice. We have also shown Europe the determination of our country to move forward with investments in the highest research and high technology structures, and this can only be welcomed. We shall therefore vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u26	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u27	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2886, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ginetti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u29	Mr President, the draft European law 2017 already approved by the other branch of Parliament is before this House. This is the fifth European bill since the adoption of Law No 234 of 2012 (the framework law on relations with the European Union) and therefore since the beginning of the legislature. At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies is currently examining the fifth law of the European delegation, already dismissed by the Senate last August. Overall, these ten measures measure the excellent work done by the Government and Parliament in transposing European legislation during this 17th legislature and the fruitful work carried out in 14a. It is a committee of loyal cooperation between the various political forces, including with regard to the practice, which has been in place for some years now, to concentrate the changes immediately in the first parliamentary reading, in order to allow rapid approval already at second reading. The work carried out in recent years by the Government and the Parliament in the implementation of European law is also confirmed by the positive data on infringement procedures, which are now halved compared to 120 in 2014, amounting to a total of 65 open procedures, a value that is around the average of the other Member States. In this second phase it was reiterated the intention, expressed also in the 14th Commission by the Groups and the Government, to approve the text as amended by the House and to involve the instances that emerge during the examination on special agendas on which the Government assures its commitment. During the 14th Commission review of this measure, the Government accepted eight agendas, which I will take into account by illustrating the articles of the bill. Finally, we must stress the role of greater protagonism, authority and credibility that today our country can boast, with these results, in participating in the definition and implementation of the Union's legislation and policies. The draft European law 2017 consists of 30 articles, 16 of which were added during the first reading examination, divided into 8 Chapters, covering different fields and subjects, from the protection of copyright to health, from taxation to the environment, energy and data protection. Chapter I lays down provisions on the free movement of goods, persons and services. Article 1 provides for lawyers established to reduce from 12 to eight years the minimum period of exercise of the profession within the European Union for the purpose of enrollment in the special register for legal aid before the higher courts, thus aligning the discipline with that of Italian lawyers. It also extends the condition of the fruitful attendance of the High School of Advocates. Article 2, added by the Chamber of Deputies, refers to the protection of copyright against infringements committed on the Internet and gives the Authority for Communications Guarantees (Agcom) the power to precautionaryly order information society service providers, the cessation of copyright and related rights violations. On this matter, in the Commission, the Government accepted agenda No 1, committing itself to consider the possibility of including in the next discussion budget law a forecast that would limit the exclusive rights granted to SIAE by Law No 633 of 1941, in an appropriate way to allow all collective management bodies to operate on Italian territory. Article 3 regulates the traceability of veterinary medicinal products by means of an electronic health prescription, which has been mandatory since 1 September 2018. An administrative penalty has been imposed during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, unless the fact constitutes a crime, for those who falseise or attempt to falsify the electronic recipes of veterinary medicinal products. It was also introduced, as from 1 September 2018, the obligation to draw up in electronic format the recipes for dedicated feed. Article 4, added by the Chamber of Deputies, reports Article 98 of the Electronic Communications Code to provide for sanctions for certain breaches of EU Regulation No 531 of 2012, on roaming on mobile communications networks within the Union, and Regulation No 2015/2120, on access to an open Internet. There are also precautionary powers of Agcom to stop, after hearing the operators concerned, prohibited behaviour. In this regard, in the 14th Commission, the Government accepted another agenda, No. 2, with which it undertakes to carry out the appropriate investigations concerning the possibility of considering modem-routers used by the end user to connect to the Internet as terminal devices and as such of free choice of the user himself. Chapter II contains provisions on justice and security. Article 5, for the complete implementation of Framework Decision 2008/913/JHA on the fight against certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia through criminal law, as a result of the case EU-Pilot 8184/15/JUST, intervenes on Article 3, paragraph 3-a, of Law No 654 of 1975, introduced by Law No 115 of 2016, which provided that the facts of denials constitute an aggravating circumstance of the criminal cases of racial discrimination. With the article under consideration, the aggravating circumstance is extended to include, in addition to the facts of denial of the Shoah or of the crimes referred to in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, also their serious minimization or their apology. Denialism is also included among the cases involving the legal responsibility of companies. Article 6, as amended at first reading, updates the rules of access to the Fund for the compensation of victims of intentional violent crimes, provided for by European law 2015-2016 in implementation of Directive 2004/40/EC. The infringement procedure n° 2011/4147 is also recalled, in order to remove the redditional conditions for access to compensation, as well as the necessity of the prior enforcement action against the offender; in addition, the recipients are admitted, for the same fact, of sums, up to 5,000 euros, paid by public or private subjects and the cases of compensation are extended, to which anyone who has been the victim of a violent intentional crime committed after 30 June 2005, and the application must be proposed within a period of one hundred and twenty days after the entry into force of the law. Finally, the necessary budget is increased. Chapter III contains provisions on taxation. Article 7 introduces a new framework for VAT refunds, recognising a lump sum of the costs incurred by taxable persons who are required to provide guarantees to the State in relation to their requests for VAT reimbursement and aims to resolve an infringement procedure of 2013. Article 8 amends the rules on VAT refunds not due in order to close the EU-Pilot 9164/17/TAXU case. A period of two years shall be allowed to submit an application for the refund of the tax not due. Article 9 amends the rules on VAT in export supplies, in implementation of a Directive of 2006 to introduce Article 8 of Law No 633 of 1972 on VAT, the qualification as non-taxable export supplies for those carried out in respect of public administrations and development cooperation entities providing for the transport and dispatch of goods outside the territory of the Union for humanitarian purposes, including those intended to implement development cooperation programmes. In this respect, the Government has accepted agendas no. It undertakes to monitor the activities in question in order to verify that these VAT-free activities are actually carried out for humanitarian purposes. In addition, the Government undertakes to provide for the 90-day period within which to adopt the decree, provided for in Article 9, aimed at establishing the modalities of the exemptions. Article 10 concerns the taxation of ships registered in the registers of the countries of the European Union or the European Economic Area (EEA). The current tax regime relating to ship operators registered in the Italian International Register extends also to persons resident and non-resident with permanent establishment in Italy who use ships registered in EU or EEA country registers. The provision is aimed at closing the case EU-Pilot No. 7060 of 2014. Chapter IV contains provisions on work and is made up of only one article. Article 11 provides for the career reconstruction of former foreign language readers, recruited at state universities before the entry into force of the 1995 Decree-Law No 120, allocating the necessary resources, in order to resolve the case EU-Pilot 2079/11, to which are associated judgments of the Court of Justice that have established that readers were entitled to the economic treatment corresponding to that of the researcher confirmed at a defined time, allowing the overcoming of the litigation and pending judgments. On this question, the Government accepted, in the Commission, agendas no. 8 and 9, with which it undertakes to assess the opportunity to address, with subsequent regulatory measures, the problem of the figure of collaborators and language experts, as well as to assess the appropriateness of carrying out a verification of the effects produced by Law No 240 of 2010 on disputes with former foreign language readers and to consider possible legislative initiatives in order to clarify better the expected ex-lege extinction of the claims advanced in court. Chapter V contains health provisions. Article 12 regulates the production and marketing - by means of a series of mandatory indications to be reported on packaging, containers and labels - of caseins and caseins intended for human consumption and their mixtures, thus implementing the European Directive 2015/2203, on which a specific infringement procedure has been opened. Article 13, introduced during the examination in the Chamber at the initiative of the Government, contains provisions on equine registry, aimed at adapting to Regulations nos. The equine registry, previously managed by the National Union for Horse Races, will now be organized and managed by the Ministry of Health. Article 14, introduced at first reading on the basis of the case EU-Pilot 8443/16, provides that the extension of the validity of an expired medical certificate, provided for in the case where the seafarer is on the voyage as he is on board, may not, however, exceed three months, in line with the STCW Convention. Finally, Article 15 lays down sanctioning provisions for the violation of EC Regulation No 1272/2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous substances and mixtures. Chapter VI contains provisions on environmental protection. Article 16 on the protection of waters amends Article 78-e of the Environment Code, which lays down minimum performance requirements for water analysis methods. It is expected that the district authorities will promote agreements with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces in order to ensure that the monitoring data of chemicals and, consequently, the ecological and chemical status of surface water bodies are inter-compatible at the river basin level. ISPRA makes available the list of laboratories with available analytical methods. The purpose of this provision is to overcome one of the objections raised by the European Commission in the EU-Pilot On the subject, the Government has accepted, in the Commission, the agenda n. 23, with which it undertakes to ensure that the acts relating to the checks on the minimum requirements for the performance of laboratories, for all methods of analysis, are subject to the provisions of Legislative Decree n. 195 of 19 August 2005, on public access to environmental information and of Legislative Decree n. 33 of 14 March 2013 on publication and access to environmental information. Article 17 on urban waste water amends Table 2 of Annex 5 to Part Three of the Environment Code, which sets emission limits for urban waste water plants in sensitive areas. It is established that the same limits - referring to the content of phosphorus and nitrogen - are monitored not in relation to the potential of the plant, but with reference to the pollutant load generated by the urban agglomeration expressed in equivalent inhabitants (AE). The purpose of this provision is, moreover, to ensure the correct implementation of Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water. Article 18 makes further changes to the environmental code on industrial emissions. Chapter VII sets out provisions on energy and renewable sources. Article 19, added at first reading, provides for the revision of the current tariff system of facilities for companies with high electricity consumption (the heading of which refers to Communication 2014/C 200/01, on State aid for the environment and energy 2014-2020), while Article 20, introduced to the Chamber, amends Legislative Decree No 28 of 2011, which regulates the criteria and mechanisms for the incentive of electricity produced from renewable sources. The article's heading refers to the adaptation to the abovementioned Communication 2014/C 200/01, with regard to support for the production of energy from renewable sources. Article 21, also added at first reading, provides for the revision of the existing system of fees paid by industrial undertakings through the gas transport tariff for companies with a high consumption of natural gas (methane). Chapter VIII opens with Article 22 to make amendments to Law No 234 of 2012. In particular, the secretariat of the International Committee for European Affairs (CIAE) loses its office status, while Parliament is placed in a position to know all delegated acts adopted by the Union, the references of which will be given in the explanatory report to the draft law of the European delegation. Moreover, the Government is allowed to quickly transpose the delegated acts which carry mere technical adaptations, by decree, without using, in this case, the instrument proper to the European delegation law and the time and procedures provided for in Article 31 of Law No 234 of 2012, which will instead be used for all other delegated acts. Article 23 lays down provisions for the full implementation of Directive 2014/33/EU on lifts and the safety of their components. It confirms in particular the competence of the prefect to issue the certificate of qualification of maintainer of lifts and regulates the theoretical-practical test for its achievement, as well as the composition of the newly re-established examination commission. Article 24, introduced to the Chamber, provides that telephone and telematic traffic operators shall keep for seventy-two months telephone and telematic traffic data, as well as data relating to unanswered calls, by way of derogation from Article 132 of the Privacy Code, which provides for up to twenty-four months. The aim is to ensure effective investigation tools in view of the extraordinary need to combat terrorism and the other serious offences mentioned. It is specified that in this way, the implementation of Article 20 of Directive 2006/5141/EU on the fight against terrorism requires Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that the competent authorities have effective investigation tools, such as those used against organised crime. Article 25 regulates the economic treatment of personnel outside the public administration participating in initiatives and missions of the European External Action Service. Article 26, added by the Chamber of Deputies, identifies ENAC as the national authority responsible for the certification and supervision of airports, as well as the personnel and organisations operating in them, in accordance with EU Regulation No 139/2014, except as provided for in the competence of the Firefighter Corps. In this respect, the Commission presented its agenda No 21, which was accepted by the Government, which commits it to take all necessary measures to ensure adequate levels of staff in terms of quantity and professional qualifications. (The sitting was suspended at 10.29 a.m. and resumed at 10.29 a.m.) Article 27, introduced by the other branch of Parliament, provides that, in order to carry out and monitor development cooperation operations with the financing of the European Union, diplomatic and consular representations may, within the limits of the said funding, avail themselves of personnel not belonging to the public administration under the same conditions as the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation. Article 28 makes changes to the Privacy Code, in implementation of Regulation No 679 of 2016, of which it anticipates certain provisions in order to provide that the data controller may use as responsible for public and private subjects. There are also rules on the re-use of data for scientific research purposes on the authorisation of the Guarantor. Article 29 lays down provisions on the functioning of the Data Protection Supervisor with a view to strengthening the structure. Article 30 contains a clause of financial invariance for all the provisions of the draft law. [[Applause from the PD and Art. 1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u30	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Liceo Classico (Benedetto da Norcia) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u31	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European law is, together with the European delegation law, one of the two instruments laid down in Law No 234 of 2012 for the periodic adaptation of national law to that of the European Union. It is proposed to eliminate or, in any case, reduce cases of regulatory conflict between the two systems. The arguments contained in the measure are very different: taxation, work, justice and security, protection of health and the environment. European law is seen more as an important instrument in the process of Italy's participation in the fulfilment of its obligations and prerogatives as a result of its membership of the European Union, but it is in fact a poor regulatory system. We do not tackle and solve major emergencies, but we simply approve so many small regulations that should, more than anything else, at a time like the current one, act as a backdrop. Of course, roaming is a good thing, and greater clarity on product labels is desirable, but we cannot dwell on such basic elements. All this happens while a serious employment and financial crisis has led Italy to keep the sad record of the number of young people who do not study, do not work and who no longer even seek employment, the so-called NEETs, not to mention an unsustainable level of taxation for families and businesses (the highest among Member States). So, are these subjects really protected? Is the principle of equality really taken into account? It is useless to boast of having solved half of the infringement procedures if then, in the light of these relationships, the Government fails to protect the interest of its citizens and its companies. Just think of the case of the Venetian banks, on which it has been repeated several times that this could not have been handled differently because of the incompatibility found with European legislation (and so we have allowed countless citizens to lose their life savings and in some cases, unfortunately, sight itself). Article 5 in particular implements the 2008 Framework Decision on combating racism and xenophobia. It is useless to write just fine words: on the one hand it is said that it wants to protect foreigners who escape from their places of origin and, on the other hand, it allows the emergence of unsustainable situations at the borders - we think of Austria and Brenner - with inhuman conditions linked to the absolute concentration created in Italy. We are talking about people stuck in our country who would like to go to other places, beyond our borders, and instead it is like being imprisoned in our territory. Let us not be surprised, Mr President, then if cases of violence and insuffering tend to increase more and more! Italy risks turning more into a gigantic hub every day. The local territories come out martyred: small centres forced to endure an incessant flow of migrants, without any valid help from the State and the EU, who prefer to lock migrants in lagers and wash their hands of them. There is one point, then, which concerns me particularly, namely the fact that through this bill the Government starts a phenomenon of mass surveillance through the control of personal data and telephone (a forecast of Article 24, as the rapporteur has just said). Provisions inserted by last minute amendments that can be discussed for a few minutes and cannot be modified by the other House. First of all, it provides for the extension of the retention time for Internet and telephone data to six years - including our own, Mr President - by private operators and regardless of the actual commission of a crime, and secondly, Agcom is given the power to intervene, as a precaution, on the electronic communications of Italian citizens in order to prevent them from accessing content on the web. A sort of censorship that, in order to be implemented, needs a mechanism of analysis and collection by the providers, of all the electronic communications of the citizens who intend to go to websites that could be censored. All without any prior control by a magistrate. Do we understand, Mr President? You really want to make our Constitution rag paper, I wonder? This Europe asks us to act in violation of our Constitution, it undermines resources and denies concrete support. It is for this and much more that there is little to be serene. Keep it up, and in the next election you will have the end of Pasok! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u33	Mr President, not a hundred years ago, but last year, we passed the Act on Denialism. You will remember: page entire on the Republic, on the Corriere della sera, because all historians, many of whom are part of the Jewish community, have divided between those who were in favour of penalising negationism and those who were not. In any case, the aggression we have predicted is not only about negationism but also about all war crimes and acts against humanity; we are talking about thousands of cases: from the Balkan wars to what happens in Africa, to Ukraine. In the Committee on Justice, before, and in this House, after, we suppress the provision that punished the minimization of these facts and that would have meant not only punishing the denial of a fact but also an interpretation of the fact itself which may be of a different kind. A few days ago, in the Committee on Justice, the report on the parties to the draft law in title was adopted, which calls for the deletion of the case of the "severe minimization" provided for in Article 5 because it is totally contrary to constitutional principles: there are judgments of the Court that say that Europe cannot suggest rules contrary to the principle of legality; I also add that they are contrary to the principle of common sense, freedom of research. It's a hell of a mechanism, and I'll give you an example. I refer to Gaza and the Israeli-Palestinian war. The Arabs, from their point of view, denounced Israel for war crimes, based on religious, ethnic and racial issues. Well, if an international body objects that the destruction of a palace in Gaza is a war crime, if I, on the contrary, speaking here in Italy, had to claim that the dead civilians not only were not twenty but five, but that they were hostage to those who launched missiles against Israel and that, therefore, if the Israelis destroyed the palace it is because of those who used it as a launch base for missiles, I fall fully into the attack mentioned above. Similarly, for any historian or journalist who should write articles, for example, on the atrocious battles between Muslims of Bosnia, Croats and Serbs, and should give an interpretation not so much denying the facts but reducing, for example, the number of deaths or responsibilities, would trigger the aggression. This is because the norm strikes not those who make apology but those who deny or minimize in a serious way and, at the time of writing an article or a book, thus spreading his thought, triggers the aggression. Those who attended the conferences of Italian historians who came to the Commission will remember that, for example, Professor Flores, also a Jew - I quote him because he was the hardest - said that in this way we are completely deprived of the possibility of historical research and the interpretation of a fact, on the basis of a condemnation, for example, of the UN or of a UN agency with respect to a particular country. I ask you, then, whether it is possible that we should continue to adopt such rules. I remember the extension to corruption approved a few days ago of the anti-mafia discipline on the preventive confiscation of property: today PD secretary Matteo Renzi said it is something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. Then why did we approve it? Today we are talking about minimization. Last year we discussed it, we were passionate about it, we deleted it in the Justice Commission and then in this House, finding a compromise that satisfied some and not others on the diction of negationism and all other crimes; Today, in Community law, there is a reappearance of the "grave miniature". Italy is becoming perhaps the most illiberal country in the world, where when you take any kind of attitude, you risk it. Then I also know that they will tell me that, once you have been denounced, maybe by a philopalestine association, then you go to the trial to say your own reasons and maybe you are acquitted with the complaint; the criminal law, however, meanwhile we insert it within our own legal system and, as always, surreptitiously, through a Community law, for which there could be broad consensus with respect to certain norms. Obviously, however, there can be no consensus on limitations of major principles such as freedom of historical research and freedom of interpretation of facts. Zola could not have written the "J'accuse" at the time, when Dreyfus was expelled from the army and with all the stamps defined as a traitor. As for Katyń's graves, if the Soviet version had remained in force, the Nazis would have been held responsible for killing thousands and thousands of Polish officers. Historical research, on the other hand, has led to proof that that mass execution was carried out by the Soviets and not by the Germans. What do we want, then, a sentence and an interpretation for those who research and report an episode, as I said last year? The Holocaust was equal to rape, because it is written that the Holocaust and war crimes are defined and punished as aggravating in the same way. In war crimes there is also the rape of a person, so we have already compared the Holocaust to rape. Many European countries have introduced rules on this matter, but they have done so to strike the denial of the Holocaust, they have not equalized it to rape. In my opinion, it is also offensive, from a historical point of view, to say that rape is "paid" with the same aggravating factor as those who claim that the Holocaust did not take place: it seems absurd to me. In short, on negationism we have said that those who deny the fact are struck with aggression. And who minimizes that? I would like to know from the politicians present what it means to have a serious miniature of a fact, if not to discuss whether or not the fact that it has occurred falls within the scope of a series of justifications that may perhaps be argued have no racial origin. Of course, if anyone tells me that Israel is a country made by Jews and racist because it discriminates against others from the religious point of view, then an action of the Israelis made in the occupied territories is a war crime. I am a Philo-Israeli and a friend of the Jews: then if I support the reasons of Israel, with this rule I am indicted and it is useless to say that it is not true, because it is exactly so. We have crossed the line in the Justice Commission, and that is exactly how it is. On the contrary, I believe that this is a deadly instrument in the hands of Israel's enemies, who risk being the real victim, because the norm seems written specifically to blame and condemn the Israelis and paralyze all over Italy those who defend or support their reasons. They can support them there, but if I repeat them here - as I said before, for example, with regard to a war crime that is being charged to the Israeli army in Gaza - I come back to this very particular case. He'll explain it better after Senator Quagliariello. With a little intelligence, we will ask for the separate vote of Article 5. We remove this rule, which will find the total dissent of all free operators in the world. Then the government, in a week, will present a small modification and the House will accept the text without this reproach. Excuse me, colleagues, but it is possible that we continue to make criminal rules indefinitely and then, the next day, we read that everyone (Constitutional Court, great lawyers) claims that the rules we have written are neither in heaven nor on earth, we make an agenda for change, and even the Secretary of the Democratic Party says that it is a crazy thing? Why don't we think about it first? The Senate and bicameralism still exist, they have not been repealed, they will also exist in the next legislature. So we are doing our job and we do not clearly and vulgarly contradict what we voted together exactly a year ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u34	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u35	Mr President, there is an obligation to point out certain passages in the draft European law which once again raise a problem that we have dealt with in the Justice Commission for almost two years. When discussing the crime of negationism, the Commission concentrated on drawing up a text as balanced, careful, detailed and detailed as possible, taking into account all interests in the field; Today, however, we are faced with an intervention which, with a rule of two lines (because in the end this is what it is) is going to amend the Mancino law, with very worrying effects that really "pass over the head" of the Justice Commission, which had dealt so much with the problem. In the measure brought about by the Commission - which, however, the Group of the North League had not approved - when we introduced paragraph 3-a of Article 3 of Law No 654 of 1975 we were very careful, also because it is provided for imprisonment and not a fine or a pat on the shoulders; moreover, we refer to propaganda, incitement and incitement committed in such a way that there is a real danger of spread and that these acts concentrate in whole or in part on the denial of the Shoah or of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. We have been very careful to say what negationism is and what is being punished. Racial incitement or hatred which is based on denial, therefore on the total or partial non-existence of the genocide of the Jews, as well as all crimes against humanity as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, are punished. We discussed what crimes could possibly be denied. Unfortunately, history has shown us that genocide and war crimes are numerous, but history has also shown that certain crimes have been discovered after years: we speak for example of the foibes, which have not been mentioned for decades and in the end there has been a tragic event among the many that happen during the wars. Just yesterday in the Commission, we spoke about this issue because another measure has appeared which will have very sensitive repercussions, namely the ratification of the additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Racial Crimes. Already in that case there are problems, but in this text it is even expected to include directly in our order a rule defining what a crime could consist of that, as we recalled earlier, is punished with imprisonment from two to six years. Therefore, despite this Government and this majority have done everything possible not to send to jail those who have committed crimes punished with penalties from two to six years, in this text this possibility remains and in any case it is expected to open a criminal procedure, with all the implications that can be had from the economic, personal, social point of view in the case of serious minimization or apology. In this regard, the words spoken yesterday by the President in the Commission, Senator Paolo Corsini, illustrious historian as well as fellow senator, who said that this is dangerous: we are talking about a subject, that of historical research, in which certain facts are evaluated - or re-evaluated - after years. Moreover, there is a doubt. If we say that instead of 6 million deaths, there have been 3.5 million, is it minimization? Does it mean attenuating responsibilities? Does it mean making a form of apology? What is also the same definition of apology? What is apology? Apology is a form of defense? They're all forms of defense. But it cannot be predicted in this way, without even defining the contours of a criminal case. I think that any of the very illustrious Members of the Commission, all of whom are better prepared than myself, will agree that minimizing is a criminal course that is difficult to configure and difficult to prove. Therefore, we must be careful, because today it could go smoothly in these classrooms - I do not say semi-empty, but perhaps little interested in a European law that might seem like one of the classic measures on which we do not even focus - a rule that is a slap, that comes to the level of the order and that will create great problems in its interpretation and application. It will create problems perhaps not for those who work on social networks where they are also told so much nonsense, but for professors, historians and experts, who deepen the cases that unfortunately have marked our history and which also concern genocide and war crimes. Therefore, the introduction of minimization as a criminal offence is very dangerous. This rule will open up a debate and raise concerns outside this House, and you who have adopted it will have to justify it in some way. Meanwhile, he continues to pass an idea into the world of those who do historical research. Before we talked about negationism, now we get to this point there seem to be always new stakes on historical research. Do not put the researcher, the historian and the scholar in trouble, who can now also be afraid to deal with some issues. The fear is that perhaps tomorrow, since this seems to be an orientation that comes from within or from outside, a great force of our civilization can be prevented: freedom of thought. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Giovanardi and Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u37	Mr President, I am addressing you, but also the members of the various groups. There is a serious problem because, as you read in the opinions expressed by the Commissions and in particular by the Justice Commission, there was one condition: to exclude from Article 5 the term'minimization', to which my colleagues Stefani and Giovanardi have last referred. The problem is that we have already approved in the Assembly, with Law No 115 of 2016, the amendment of Article 3 of the Royal Law, as amended by the Law of Mancino. By that law the position of all the Groups was accepted, unanimously: excluding the minimization, which was also foreseen at the time. Just read the opinion of the 2nd Commission on pages 4, 5 and 6, to realize that there is a unanimous position that takes into account what has already been voted and became law in 2016. Yesterday afternoon, at a meeting of the Commissions 2nd and 3rd, on the additional protocol to the Council of Europe Convention, a very similar issue was raised again, precisely to make Parliament's position uniform. We would look like those who vote in one way and then in another, with conflicting rules. Since no amendment has been tabled, I do not know, Mr President of the 14th Commission (which is not listening to me)... CHITI (PD). I'm listening. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to understand whether, hypothetically, the opinion was voted on in the Committee on Justice. If that is not the case, I think there are two possibilities: either we all call for a reopening of the time limits for the amendments, because no amendment has been tabled on the matter (even if there is an opinion that puts a condition for that part to be expunged) or we return to the Commission before we proceed with the examination of the articles, so that, with a quick passage, the issue can at least be addressed. Otherwise we would have a schizophrenic solution: on the one hand, a law that has already been passed, which has chosen a path; on the other, a Community law that chooses another solution against the Commission's notice of justice which just yesterday reaffirmed the first path. You will realize, Mr President, that this does not make sense, from a legal point of view, even logical. I therefore turn to you, so that a solution can be found. I see only two avenues: either that of reopening the time limits for amendments, for one or two days, while maintaining the examination of the measure in this House, or that of referring the text back to the Commission, so that we can look at it in depth - unless it has already been done - and really choose a different solution from that chosen less than a year ago. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u38	Mr President, on the point on which the debate has focused, I would like to say to my colleagues in the Commission that this is not just a matter of European law. In this case we start in 2008, Senator Caliendo. In 2008, the Commission of the European Union issued a framework measure establishing that in the laws of the Member States the offence concerning denial, minimization, serious minimization (in French they used the term "grossolana") and apology should be provided for. It was said that from 31 December 2014 this would become mandatory. We are talking about 2014 and today we are almost 2018. On this basis, on 9 July 2014, the Political Commission of the European Union of this Senate unanimously adopted a resolution (which it sent to the Justice Commission, of which you, Senator Giovanardi and others are members) in which it said: "I note that the criticalities found by the European Commission for Italy concern: the lack of detailed information on the qualification of victims of public incitement to violence or hatred of both a group of people and its member (...); the lack of references to the colour of the skin and the ascension in the consideration of the victims of incitement (...); the non-predictability of the punishableness of "denial" and of the "rawly minimization" of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court (...); and therefore - it is not the case of the convention on historical research; if I say that in the Province of Pistoia there has been a fact that for me it is a genocide that does not return to this particular case: here we refer to cases foreseen and recognized by three articles (6, 7 and 8) of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, only these are spoken of - the lack of specific provisions that qualify as a criminal offence a apologology, denial or the gross minimization of the crimes defined by Article 6 of the Statute of the International Military Court of Nori. The Commission has not acted on this 2014 position. For the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, when there is no intervention by the Commission on the merits, after fifteen days, it is revoted to the Political Commission of the European Union and, if there is the presence of 15 members out of 28 and the vote is by majority, that becomes the position of the Senate. President Grasso correctly sent this position to the Commission of the European Union. On 13 October 2014, Vice-President Šefčovič said: "Dear President of the Senate, the Commission thanked the Senate of the Republic for its opinion on the Commission's report to the European Parliament (in which it was recognised that these measures should be taken) and waited for Italy to notify any transposition measures deemed necessary to comply with the Commission's indications listed in the report (which are the ones I referred to). Last year - it is true and important - we passed a law with which we introduced the aggression of negationism, we did not include in the measure two other aspects as aggravating. Here we are not introducing a new crime in the code, we are saying that, in addition to negationism, serious minimization and apology are aggravating, which many countries that did not have it in their own system have introduced, while others have said that they already predict in their own system the crimes of serious negationism and apology (because there are or are not, you cannot bluff) and, in that case, the Commission has taken note of it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a political fact: the Commission of the European Union has given Italy an infringement warning (EU-Pilot). If we do not intervene and take action, Italy, by decision of the Senate (because the House of Deputies has decided in another way that I will say), could be in infringement proceedings not because it has failed to a decimal of the budget or other things that we have contested, but because we have not considered aggravating crimes that concern the Holocaust - because this is the theme of the issues - or crimes against humanity. It is said that, with reference to the Holocaust, crimes against humanity and genocide, if these aggravating factors were included, freedom of research would be limited. I absolutely do not agree with that, but this is very important, neither does the European Court of Human Rights, which in some judgments has said that there are some crimes that cannot be safeguarded by the freedom of expression referred to in Article 10, because they are crimes that continue to perpetuate anti-Semitism and the attitude of those who say that the Holocaust has not been there because it could not have been that those crematoria ovens produced so many victims a day but did less and such things. This is the choice we are called to this morning. Finally, this article has not been introduced by the Ministry of Justice and the Government without being seen by Parliament, as it has been discussed and approved by the Chamber of Deputies and I want to end by taking note of the House's vote on this article, which would remove the freedom of research, intervention and who knows how many other freedoms in our country: 407 Members were present, 345 voted favorably, one against and 61 abstained. All the groups, basically, did just that. Finally, one last point: there is someone here, ladies and gentlemen, who can say that there is no return of anti-Judaism around Italy and Europe? If you may say so, someone may say so. I think that this is not the case and that, indeed, there is a slip in which, starting from these aspects, we return very much back, as history teaches us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So much so that in France, to speak of a phenomenon related to a neighbouring country, many citizens of the Jewish religion are returning to Israel for the concern of misunderstandings, attacks and violations of their rights. I think that we should think about this and I think quite frankly that if a judge sends it to the Constitutional Court tomorrow and the Court considers that there is one in our legal system, it will be an assessment between the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice, but we in this House make a decision that is political in nature, that is, if Italy wants to go into infringement because it does not consider the apology or serious denial that other countries, including the East, have introduced into its own systems. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Uras]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u39	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to speak in general to point out some of the things I believe we should welcome. Firstly, I would like to mention the reduction in infringements, as evidenced by the numbers: we have now gone from about 120 infringements at the beginning of the parliamentary term (I am part of the 14th Commission from the beginning) to 65 at the present time. However, I am sorry to see that of the 65 remaining 16 are from DGENV (Direction General Environment) and therefore refer to environmental issues, which are by far the ones on which we are most penalised. In the second place, in this negative ranking, we find taxation, transport and competition with six infringements each. The fact that as many as 16 infringements are related to the environment to me, who are also a member of the Environment Commission, is particularly sorry, but I do not think this is significant as far as I'm going to say. I therefore welcome the fact that the measure in our examination contains some articles (19, 20 and 21) dealing specifically with environmental issues. I would also like to talk about another subject, which I have also taken up in the debate in the Commission on Article 24, which has been introduced with an amendment to the House and which provides for the storage of electronic and telephone traffic data for seventy-two months, or six years. I think that Article 20 of Directive No 541 of 2017 takes the wrong approach to introducing this abnormal increase from the current two years (in some cases, because for others the limit is set at one year and for others still at 30 days) to even six years. It is, among other things, a derogation from legislative decree No 196 of 2003 and says the same article 24, which is a derogation legislation. The privacy code, in fact, currently sets in two years the deadline for the storage of telephone traffic data, in one year those of electronic traffic and in only 30 days data relating to calls without reply. Moreover, in 2015 Article 4-a was introduced to Decree-Law No 7 of 2015 which required the retention of data until 30 June 2017. So from that date, that is, from the first July of this year, the terms were part of those provided for by the privacy code, so a maximum of two years. It was intended to intervene suddenly in order to bring this limit to six years, in my view erroneously, because Article 20 of the directive concerns the fight against terrorism in particular while Article 24 of the measure under consideration makes a list of offences; of which only those ex Article 51, paragraph 3-c of the Code of Criminal Procedure refer to terrorism, the others are serious and very serious crimes but if we want to refer to European legislation, the latter does not include them. The Privacy Supervisor, Antonello Soro, has also complained about this provision contained in Article 24, because there are some judgments of the European Court, I quote the so-called Tele2 judgment of December 2016, which restrict the margins of retention of these data. We are therefore in danger of being convicted by the European Court by this article and we are also risking the infringement procedure because also Directive No 24 of 2006, in Article 3, paragraph 2, explicitly indicates that data retention is not required with regard to non-connected calls, i.e. calls without response. All this in order to say that we must intervene on this. In this sense - this is a positive note - I welcome the acceptance of my agenda in the Commission, which commits the Government to a more comprehensive reform of the subject, in this case from a truly European perspective, and to plan to inform Parliament also periodically about the use of this data, which responds to the fear that we citizens have about the use of certain data, because they must be kept for all citizens and then, in the cases of investigations relating to these crimes, will be used. [[Applause from Senator Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u42	Mr President, the draft European law 2017 currently under consideration consists of 30 articles and deals with a lot of issues. I too, in general discussion, want to take action to address some of these issues, so that the rapporteur and the government can have a fairly broad picture of the issues of the law that we are currently examining. In my speech, I wish to confine myself to the so-called computer issues contained in the draft law. In particular, I would like to comment on Article 4, which, in response to a case of announced infringement, more precisely to the case of EU-Pilot 8925/16/CNECT, intervenes by introducing sanctions for mobile roaming. In the same article are also quoted to a minority degree, almost en passant, some sanctions introduced for the realization in our country of the so-called open Internet. This is one of the points raised by the same case EU-Pilot 8925/16/CNECT. Now, one of the most critical aspects of the Internet topic opened in this country is the question of the so-called free modem, i.e. the practice in use at the Italian Internet service providers (almost all, with some rare exceptions I will then say) to impose the purchase or rental of the modem for the realization of the connection of their customers to the public Internet. At this time, many of these operators impose both the purchase of the modem and the payment of monthly installments to cover the cost of this apparatus. Now, this circumstance is explicitly prohibited by European Regulation No 2120/2015, which in Article 3 clearly states that terminal equipment must be of free choice by customers of telephone operators and the Internet. This is, of course, a common sense rule and I am almost ashamed to explain why this has to be. Users must be free to choose their devices and free to change the operator, carrying with them the apparatus they have chosen. There is also a talk about competition: there are some companies that would like to invest in the construction of these equipment and that, of course, in the face of these impositions by operators, refrain from doing so because the market is blocked. It is interesting to note that the regulation, Mr President, unlike the directive, is a rule directly applicable in the Member States and does not need a law transposing it. Yet, in Italy operators continue to violate this regulation, using a very nice subterfuge, that of the definition of terminal equipment. According to the operators and according to the same Government, which, through the Undersecretary Biondelli, answered an urgent question to the Chamber in April 2017, marrying the interpretation of the operators, the modems for the Internet connection that we all have at home are not terminal equipment, but are network equipment, therefore necessary for the operation of the Internet network itself. They therefore, as such, are outside the scope of this regulation, which refers to a previous directive for the definition of terminal equipment; there is essentially a green light, which in some way denies the free choice of users. Mr President, operators and the government themselves treat these modems as if they were necessary for the functioning of the Internet. Taking a very simple example, it is as if I, at my home in Trapani, turned off my fiber modem and you, Mr President, in Milan no longer managed to navigate the net because the shutdown of my apparatus affects the functioning of the Internet and, therefore, you and many other users could not connect to the Internet. This is obviously ridiculous and it is nothing more than a subterfuge that is provided to operators to continue vexing users with the payment of this modem. There is more, however, Mr President. Through this imposition, operators violate another European regulation, transposed this time in Italy, which provides that the duration of fixed telephony contracts may not exceed 24 months, requiring the purchase of the router and payment plans of this apparatus to exceed 24 months. For example, TIM requires the payment of forty-eight monthly installments for the purchase of the modem, providing for penalties in case of withdrawal. Operators therefore also circumvent the rule of the maximum duration of the 24-month constraint by imposing the payment of this apparatus. Let's remember, among other things, that the same fee paid to users is quite substantial: in the case of TIM, even, it is equal to four euros per month for forty-eight months, for a total of 150 euros, for an apparatus that on the market is worth, at most, 50 euros. So, there's also a bit of a scam combined with this practice, which is also illegal. Well, we have dealt with this in Parliament. In the House, Mr Catalano has presented acts of inspection union in this regard and in the examination of European law an amendment has been adopted that has transposed the sanctioning apparatus, but only the sanctioning apparatus that still remains totally ineffective since, as we have seen, using the subterfuge of declaring the modem that we have at home as an apparatus on the net disapply the European regulation. Therefore, rapporteur and representative of the Government, it is not worth imposing the sanctioning apparatus, which is right. For the purpose of resolving this problem, we are doing absolutely nothing, because the operators will continue to apply this sort of scam and these costs, illegal under the European regulation, in the run-up to the government's resolution. In the course of the course of an interrogation the representative of the Government has manifested an opening regarding the question and has said that the Government wants to ask the Agcom, so that the Agcom gathers - think a little - and declares if these modems are actually terminal apparatuses or apparatuses of network and Sanciss the obvious, that these modems are not apparatuses of network but terminal apparatuses. Agcom must intervene to settle this issue! In the meantime, Agcom latita, therefore takes no decision and operators continue to vex customers with the imposition of these costs. For this reason, I have tabled a new agenda and I would like to point it out to the rapporteur, with whom there has been a very fruitful exchange in 14a. The Commission, where I had tabled an amendment and an agenda. The amendment, unfortunately, has not passed because we know that European law cannot be touched to prejudice a return to the House and a hypothetical non-approval. I have tabled a new agenda in this House, which I urge the rapporteur to consider. It commits the Government to commit Agcom in turn, as Agcom is a government agency, to settle the matter in certain times. On the agenda, I have foreseen fifteen days from the adoption of this law. I imagine, Mr President, that fifteen days will be sufficient to decide whether the modem I have at my home is detrimental to the functioning of the network if it is switched off. It is a reasonable time, in case this time should not be considered reasonable, to make a proposal, but in any case, to commit the Government to commit its Authority to the guarantee on communications to finally decide what these modems are and, therefore, to decide whether the regulation should be applied and whether the sanctions, which we have rightly included in this law, must be applied or not. On other matters, Mr President, I reserve the right to speak in the explanation of vote. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u44	Mr President, the rapporteur has already specified in her speech how European law and European delegation law are to be examined. These are two measures which, by practice and not by obligation, are examined, at first reading, by the Senate Assembly and by the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies. Also in practice, when a bill is hesitated by one of the two branches, the other branch discusses it, but does not modify it: this is to speed up the process of application of the same laws in the national regulatory system and avoid the additional possible burdens that infringement procedures produce in our accounts. I therefore welcome the work done in the House: the draft law presented by the Government initially contained 14 articles; the text was raised to 30 articles with the introduction of new rules that contribute to a further reduction in EU infringement procedures or findings and which naturally deal with the world. There are thirty different issues, some of which have been described and illustrated in this House by those who have preceded me. What I would like to say is that European law and the law of European delegation will become part of our regulatory system through the definition of implementing regulations, drawn up and implemented by our bureaucracy. What I would like to say to Undersecretary Gozi here is that the Government should commit itself to ensuring that both European law, which we are examining today, and that the law of European delegation, once hesitated by the Assembly, is made applicable by means of simplified instruments, otherwise we run the risk of weighing down our bureaucracy and the costs that our companies have to bear, that they must implement who knows what internal upheavals in order to be able to align their company with European regulations. Of course, it is an important moment when bureaucracy, when implementing the legislation we are about to vote on, must make it as simple as possible. With regard to the content of this bill, what is missing - and I am sorry, but having read the documents I know was proposed to the House - is the important infringement procedure that we are subjected to as a country for the time of payment of public administration. It is true that something is being done to make them slightly faster (and certainly not enough for us), but it is equally true that payment times are leading to a crisis of about 21,000 companies in Italy with 40,000 employees. I address the Undersecretary, but also the Minister for Relations with Parliament who is present: I know that it is difficult to find the resources, but we run the risk, allowing the payment times of the public administration to be so long, to lose the workforce and businesses, especially in the construction sector. This is something that I wanted to stress to the attention of Mr Gozi. The second issue I would like to highlight is the question of the Bolkestein directive. I know that the Government is working to bring forward an Italian amending law, to be presented to Europe and we hope that Europe will take it into proper consideration since, if I was just talking about 20,000 companies, this directive involves even about 200,000 small businesses and 400,000 jobs. I don't know if these data, coming from the sector, are truthful, but even if they were verified in excess they would always be very relevant to the country. Beyond the descending or ascending phase, what I would like to say in this House is that nothing in European law is contained in relation to the problem of migration flows, which involve an expenditure of 4.7 billion euros for our country (even if this sum is perhaps decreasing in the face of the decrease in flows), result in a loss of resources for our country and mean, as we saw yesterday, that the Government presents a document of economy and finance in debt. If indeed our relations with the European Union are as good as Juncker says, who said that Italy has saved Europe's face by solving a problem that is a Community problem, and if it is therefore recognised that this is a problem that concerns the European Union, we ask that the European Union should take care of it, with resources that must not come out of the coffers of the Italian State, but must come from the European Union. It seems to me that this is also an important factor to act on; although it is not part of the law that we are examining, it is still a European standard. I am pleased that undersecretary Gozi is here and I hope that the words that he himself heard from Juncker's loud voice will then turn into concrete acts and towards our country in the refreshment of those resources, because we believe that it would be an operation of legality and justice. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u45	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u46	Mr President, it has already been mentioned that European law 2017 is an extremely important measure, since it allows for a further adaptation of the Italian legal order to the European legal order. There are many issues and sectoral areas involved and, of course, in my brief speech, I do not have time to comment on them and to dwell on all of them. I am therefore referring to the report by Senator Ginetti, who analysed them in depth. I would just like to refer to a few of these provisions, which have not been mentioned in this debate at all, in order to give me a more general consideration. Among the most important measures are the copyright provisions, which strengthen the powers of intervention in relation to the violation of these rights of the Authority for the guarantees in communications, especially in the event of serious prejudice for rightholders. There are also important tax provisions, such as value added tax measures, in response to various infringement procedures. With regard to VAT refunds, there are costs incurred by taxable persons who provide guarantees to the State and there is the issue of the refund of the tax paid and not due, with reference to the judgment of the Banco Ambrosiano Veneto and, still in the field of taxation, there are provisions which aim to resolve the question of compatibility with European law of the existing provisions concerning the preferential schemes for determining the taxable income of maritime undertakings. Then there are environmental protection provisions, including water protection provisions, which refer both to monitoring the state of the water and to monitoring emission limits for waste water plants and, even more importantly, to industrial emissions provisions. Finally, there are the provisions on energy and renewable sources, including the general measure, which is intended to automatically allocate to the reduction of the electricity tariffs of users who bear the costs related to the incentives for the introduction of renewable sources of at least 50% of the resources resulting from the reductions that will be obtained for the years 2018-2020. The importance, with the form of incentives, of user involvement is obvious. There are also a lot of other provisions, but as I said, I refer to Senator Ginetti's brilliant report. I would like to make a more general remark: the draft law that we are about to adopt represents a further step towards the constant reduction in the number of infringement proceedings against Italy, as well as the solution of pending disputes. With this measure we close three infringement procedures and define seven other so-called EU-Pilot cases. There are clear benefits resulting from the timely adaptation to European legislation in our legal system; they are not often mentioned, but they are economic benefits, because they represent a real opportunity for our businesses and our consumers to develop. There is also a consideration that concerns the fact that, by approving this measure, I believe that we contribute to the credibility and authority of our country in the European context. This is, of course, important in general, but it is particularly important at this stage, where a period of negotiation has opened up which is crucial to relaunching and deepening the process of European integration. There are key issues at the heart of this negotiation agenda, such as common defence, common immigration policies and reform of euro area governance. I believe that our country has all the titles to participate as a protagonist and to play an important role in this negotiation. I believe that it can be said that, with the adoption of the draft law under consideration, we can make a further positive contribution in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u47	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in her reply, I call Mr Gozi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u48	Mr President, I would like to thank the senators for the excellent work they have done, as always in the Commissions on the measure, starting with the speeches by Floris and Guerrieri, who wanted to remember what we are doing in the interests of Italy: we are drastically reducing the dispute with the European Union. It is a figure that I always remember having undertaken to keep you updated because it is a way to allow you to control the activity of the Executive: the Government started with more than 121 violations at the beginning of 2014, when the previous Government took office, and today there are 64. We have halved the European litigation and we have done so thanks to the excellent cooperation of the Government with the two Chambers and thanks to the method, which is now a practice and which I hope will remain so also in the vote on the European law 2017, which consists in a very thorough examination at first reading and in a approval of the measure at second reading. The reduction of infringements means more credibility and reliability for Italy and allows Italy to be more demanding when negotiating at European level because the more reliable you are, the more credible and efficient you are in fulfilling the commitments you freely take in Brussels and the more you are heard when you propose new rules or changes to existing rules that do not go in the right direction or are no longer adequate in relation to the situation of the European Union or individual countries. 11:34 a.m. (Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers). Therefore, this is a highly political work and protection of the Italian national interest. European laws are necessarily horizontal measures, because European litigation and the work of the European Union deal with many areas, which is why in this measure, as in all others, we deal with many areas: we go from roaming to personal data, via VAT and other environmental issues. However, the objective we must continue to pursue is this, and European law, if you want to approve it definitively today, will help to reduce three further infringements - that is, the most serious stage of litigation - also preventing the start of new infringement procedures by resolving the dispute in eight other cases. These are the EU-Pilot cases that have been mentioned. This is the job we're doing. Among the various points there is one particularly important one, on which I imagine we will speak again (and we will deepen the subject) when we have to discuss Article 5. I refer to the framework decision of 28 November 2008 - I remember this date: 28 November 2008 - on combating certain forms of expression of racism and xenophobia through criminal law. Not by the specific rule at this stage, but I would like to remind you that it is not an initiative of the Government, it is not a new rule introduced today by the European Union in 2017 on a proposal from the European Commission: it is a rule that has been in force since 2008 and on which Italy has failed since 2008. And since framework decisions have been - I say it simply - transformed into directives since 2014, since the beginning of 2014 Italy has a very complex, very thorny, very difficult dispute in the fight against all forms of racism and xenophobia, with particular regard to anti-Semitism. With the rule contained in this provision, which has been deepened in the Chamber, in the Assembly but also in the Commission Justice, we want to maintain the commitment that Italy made on 28 November 2008. It is not, therefore, this or that other majority because, as is well known, on 28 November 2008 there was a majority of different colors than the one that today puts this provision to your attention. We want to adapt and heal Italy's litigation. I remember, Senators, that the 2008 rule was approved by unanimous decision of the Council of Ministers; unanimity was achieved because on these issues a choice was made, confirmed and strengthened also in the light - President Chiti has remembered very well - of a phenomenon that we absolutely cannot deny, that is, the return in force, unfortunately, also in the parliamentary classrooms of various countries of the European Parliament, the theme of anti-Semitism and denialism. In the light of the rule adopted in 2008 with a vote in favour of Italy, with a different majority, on which there has been a long dialogue with the Commission, if in 2017 we have an open dispute - senators, I do not have to remind you, I do not have to remind the authoritative members of the Commission justice - and, despite the measure you have reminded us, there is still today, at this date, an open dispute, meaning that that measure that was adopted, of great importance for Italy, is not sufficient to fulfil our obligations and to respect the commitment that the framework decision of 2008 had set to Italy. I understand the importance and also the importance of the work you have done, but if we are here today to talk about litigation it is because that work is not enough to close the litigation of Italy. It is clear that it is not just an economic issue. With the work we have done together on reducing state aid and combating fraud, which has been reduced by 60% to the European budget in three years, we have saved, avoiding very significant economic damage. In this case, however, I invite you to think not about the economic damage, although it still involves a monetary penalty for Italy. I invite you to think about the political and reputational damage that would lead to a worsening of Italy's litigation on a topic on which the various Italian governments (right, centre and left) have been discussing with the European Commission since 2008 and on which we have still opened a dispute. Do we really want a worsening of the litigation in 2017 for a topic on which there was unanimity in Brussels, and here in Italy, on which we have worked and have tried to work all the governments that preceded the current one? Do we want to open a Community dispute on this? Do we want it to be said that in Italy there is a problem on a thorny subject? After the excellent work you did last year, it remains the last mile, one last point to be addressed. We risk ruining, even at the reputational level, the work you have done so as not to confirm to the Senate this rule on which many governments and many Ministers of Justice have worked and on which a very important deepening has been carried out also in the Chamber and in the Justice Commission. These are the aspects that I wanted to highlight, with regard to the political relationship with the European Union and our partners in the Council of Ministers. Unanimous was the vote of Italy, but since 2008 it continues to violate that commitment, even if at the time it was not obliged to vote in favour. This is the point on which I would like to draw your attention to Article 5. Before concluding, I would like to take back some very important speeches. Senator Orellana raised the issue of personal data. As I have been able to say to him in the Commission, his points will be fully taken into account, since we have already given a favourable opinion on the agenda he has presented here. We will certainly take account of the aspects that you have raised, because it is the Government's will, when we have to implement the rules that you will approve today, if you so wish. I am very sensitive to the aspect of roaming, raised by Senator Bocchino. He knows how much his abolition was a priority for Italy, which included it in the Italian Presidency programme of the European Union in 2014, such as the portability of digital content data. We have abolished roaming and certainly, when we transpose the rules and ensure that they are well implemented through sanctions, we will take into account the agenda presented by Senator Bocchino, expressing a favourable opinion on it, as I have also had the opportunity to say in the Commission. As a representative of the Government, I am very sensitive to the issue of implementing the rules and, therefore, so is the Government. You know, Senator Floris, how much we have worked to amend Law No. 234 of 2012, in order to prevent European standards from being used to increase bureaucracy and complexity. We have made sure that there is a ban on gold plating, which is the use of European standards to introduce excessive additional burdens on companies. We have done so in recent years and certainly, in implementing the rules under consideration, some of which are very relevant to companies, we will take into account the concerns and the invitation you have addressed to the Government. Likewise, I would like to reassure you on the Italian Government's continued commitment to combating delays in the payment of public debt. On this too - as you know - we have been negotiating with the European Commission since July 2014. The Commission's latest report certifies the improvement of Italy's activities, especially at the level of central government, and of some regions which have now become particularly virtuous on issues such as health care. I think for example - and I quote only this because it is the one that comes to my mind immediately - the Lazio Region and its improvement in the last three years. You know that the issue of late payments also concerns regions and local authorities with whom we have less tools than the Ministries to ensure full compliance with the rule. We're working on it, though. We drew up a further report to the Commission on 18 April of this year on improvements and we continue with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance to maintain maximum pressure, certainly because it is an issue of great economic importance and I would say political importance. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u49	On behalf of the House, I greet the Australian lawyers' delegation and Mr Nick Gorian, Member of the State of Western Australia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u50	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). 11:46 a.m. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which are to be discussed, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u51	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the G2100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u52	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u56	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 2.1 seeks to delete the article, while Amendment 2.3 seeks to correct it. This is a matter of topicality on the media, because in fact an amendment to Article 2 was introduced during the examination of the draft European law by the Assembly with an amendment proposed by the Democratic Party. In our opinion, there is something extremely serious in this proposal, because in practice the Authority for Communications Guarantees (Agcom) is given the power to intervene at its discretion, and therefore also with the darkening of certain sites, if you notice the threat of copyright infringement. We believe that this proposal creates a very serious confusion between the prerogatives of the judiciary and those of an organ such as Agcom. And we don't just say that, because a nice article on "The Daily Fact" has appeared in which such a twist is found. Since, among other things, European law is a measure which, as a whole, aims to remedy situations which have led the European Commission to open infringement proceedings against us, we wonder how it was possible for the House not only to present a proposal of this kind but also to approve it. The risk - and this is what we hope - is that the Court of Justice of the European Union will then intervene and tell Italy that it is not possible to include proposals in a measure that create confusion between the prerogatives of the judiciary and those of Agcom. You did not want to listen to us and, therefore, as always, we will find ourselves in these classrooms in a new legislature to confront what will be an infringement, because this will be the epilogue of the initiative taken by the Democratic Party. You also reject our amendment. We will find ourselves here, as on the issue of SIAE - but I will talk about this later - having to put a piece, perhaps, after a long time, to a huge hole that has been generated thanks to you. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Montevecchi, do you insist on voting on the agenda for G2.100? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u60	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, the G2100 agenda, in our view, is clearly the victim of political reluctance to consider our proposals, instead of trying to protect the interests of the few for as long as possible. And this will happen until it really is no longer possible and we will have to find a solution in this case too and put an end to the scandal that we have been denouncing perhaps since the beginning of the parliamentary term or since 2014. I am referring to SIAE's monopoly on copyright. It is now the news that the European Commission would have decided - but here too it has remained a question mark, because it is not known whether it has ever opened a procedure for Italy's infringement in transposing the Barnier Directive, or whether it has only been a threat - to close the issue by being content with Minister Franceschini's promise to intervene in the budget law in order to heal SIAE's monopoly on copyright and related rights. It is a fact that we - as I have already said - have always denounced. Even our proposals were not even heard a few months ago, when in the 14th The Commission and this House have taken steps to transpose that directive. This is precisely a desire to be deaf to the proposals of political force by political principle. Nor was it intended to adopt the common sense of the father of the family, who decides to transpose legislation properly. And politically speaking, we still find ourselves today with this open affair. The Commission was then given an agenda which was virtually identical to ours, which was presented by a fellow senator, and our agenda was opposed to it. In an attempt to get that agenda accepted and to get the government to engage in that direction, we also expanded the shirt. That is to say that our proposals must not be accepted. Therefore, we have retabled the agenda in this House, because we want to testify that the battle over the monopoly of SIAE has always seen us at the forefront even in unsuspecting times. You clearly did not accept our agenda, because one of my colleagues was accepted in the Commission. Given today's news and the fact that we have not seen anything in the Update Note to the DEF appear in relation to the desire to heal what the European Commission is asking us to do, namely the monopoly that actually remains with SIAE in this area, we hope that instead, at least in the budget law, by fulfilling the commitment made with the adoption of the agenda, the Government will finally decide to heal this situation and put an end to what has always been a favoritism that has certainly had political returns for PD. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which agendas have been presented and which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u62	Mr President, as we have already done with other measures, we are eagerly trying to raise the issue of veterinary medicines. We have therefore tabled an agenda in Article 3, which concerns provisions on the traceability of veterinary medicinal products, and we are once again putting to the attention of the Government and the rapporteur a matter which we consider to be quite important. You know perfectly well that, pursuant to Article 10 of Legislative Decree No 193 of 6 April 2006, which is in force, there is an obligation for the veterinary surgeon to prescribe and use for treated animals only and exclusively the medicine registered in veterinary medicine and only in exceptional cases, because perhaps it is no longer in production, another drug can be prescribed. On the other hand, it is not possible to do what is feasible for human medicines. In fact, the doctor, for reasons of savings, should almost always try to prescribe the generic drug. In the case of veterinary medicinal products, the same principles as may be prescribed in the human medicinal product are used. The G3.100 agenda commits the Government to finally putting its hand on this issue, which would produce savings for the state, and not only for the pockets of those who bear such expenses, but also for public structures. Think of the municipal kennels and how much, because of the deductions, would generally save the administration of the state. Once again, I would ask the rapporteur and the Government to give an opinion on the agenda, at least. It would be a very important measure and above all a measure of savings for the State and families.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u63	The remaining agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u64	Mr President, I am in favour of the 3100 agenda, with a slight rewording: it commits the Government, rather than promoting it, to consider whether it is appropriate to promote it. I would like to call for the withdrawal of the G3200 and G3201 agendas, otherwise I am against it because it has been absorbed by the previous agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u65	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u66	Senator De Petris, do you accept the request for reformulation? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3.100 (text 2). BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u69	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, I shall withdraw the agenda for G3 200.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u70	I take note of that. Senator Bottici, do you insist on voting on the agenda for G3201? BOTTICS (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.201, presented by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 4, on which an agenda has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u71	Mr President, the opinion on the G4200 agenda is in favour, provided that the part concerning the Government's commitments is reworded as follows: It considers the need for regulatory action, within the framework of the sectoral European legislation and the Agcom guidelines for resolving the problem under the pre-conditions. It is therefore proposed to delete the two paragraphs and replace them with the rewording that has just been read.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u72	The opinion of the Government is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u73	Senator Bocchino, do you accept the proposal for an advanced reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u74	Mr President, I confess that the proposal for a rewording leaves me somewhat perplexed, because - basically - in this way it makes the agenda almost identical to the one already adopted in the Commission, which instead was my intention to go beyond the content. On the agenda of the G4200, I ask the Government to give a mandate to Agcom to settle the question of the nature of the terminal apparatus, i.e. the modem itself. I repeat that, with the proposed rewording, the agenda becomes a regression of what has already been approved in the Commission and loses its effectiveness, as Agcom is not given the mandate to settle the issue. I do not know whether it is possible to set aside the agenda. If we insist on the proposed reformulation, I say that it is useless, because we have already addressed this issue in the Commission and adopted an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Rapporteur Ginetti, would you like to add some clarification?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u75	Mr President, I would like to stress that as a Parliament we can commit the Government, but not an autonomous authority. So, the commitment is indirect. But the sense doesn't change.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u76	Senator Bocchino, what is your position in the light of this clarification?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u77	Mr President, at the moment I accept the proposal for a rewording, but it must be understood that this issue must be dealt with more clearly in a subsequent measure. True, we cannot influence Agcom's activity, but we can tell you how to intervene on something. For the time being, I accept the proposal for a rewording and we will then take action on this issue. I insist on voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G4200 (text 2). BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4200 (text 2), presented by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u81	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I would particularly like to address my fellow Members, Mr Di Biagio, Mr Casson and Mr Corsini, who are particularly sensitive to the issues of the eastern border. I remember that with the unforgettable Lucio Toth we have always defended Italian writers, such as Kersevan and Cernigoi, accused of negationism and minimization. The last time Kersevan tried to speak in 2013, extreme right-wing groups prevented it. However, we have always said, even by contesting the most extremist groups of the exiles, that the issue had to be resolved from a historical point of view. Now there is no need for extreme right-wing groups to challenge them. With this rule we threaten them, with a sentence of two to six years in prison, because they deny or say that that of the foibe is essentially an invention, and it is their historical interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u84	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, even in the light of the previous speech, I would like to ask that we vote separately on Article 5 of the measure and vote on the first paragraph separately from the second, so that we can consider the reasons underlying the diction in a serious way, which leaves us very, very perplexed. Mr President, I am going to go into the substance of this proposal so that we do not take the floor anymore. I would first of all like to say that I have always considered myself a friend of Israel. I believe that in that area Israel is the reference democracy and I also believe that no other country in the Middle East has developed mature democratic forms like Israel. This, however, does not stop me from shouting out in Parliament's Chamber: we are filling our legislation with crimes of opinion. Once the fight against crimes of opinion was a characteristic of anti-fascism. Today Alfredo Rocco, from the other world, would smile smiling because compared to the crimes that are present in his code, those that we have inserted and that concern the opinion are much wider and much heavier. I appeal to the Liberals in this House. Is it ever possible that you do not see a minimum of Voltairian spirit that leads us to consider the reasons of our important opponents and to defend - as opinions - as ours? There is also a special consideration, Mr President, and I do it in the light of my profession, which is history. I personally supported the uniqueness of the Holocaust from the historical point of view because I believe that in the friendly - enemy relationship the Holocaust has its own peculiarity: the enemy was considered such regardless of the parameters of time and space. In short, a Jew could be pursued even if he was at the North Pole, which did not happen for example to a kulako. In the context of historical reflection, however, there are many colleagues who think differently, there are left-wing historians who considered the crimes of communism much more serious from a numerical point of view. What should we think? Should we consider that there should be a judge telling us that that is Holocaust minimization or severe minimization? I believe that this must be avoided. I would also point out that these arguments of common sense as well as essential liberalism were reflected in the Commission's opinion on justice, and I believe that this House would do well to give a sign of resistance and understanding also of the reasons that our colleagues in the Commission have so well considered. It is for this reason, Mr President, that I would ask you to vote for separate parts on which the House will have to speak, and I would also ask colleagues to give a sign and to make this law voteable and not a law that brings another crime of opinion into our home, introducing idiosyncrasies typical of political correctness in the penal code. If all this ends up feeding politically correct patience, but if it comes to changing the penal code obviously changes the speech and also changes the attention we must pay to this issue. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u85	Senator Quagliariello, we will deal with procedural matters in due course.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u88	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I have already said in general debate, I would like to draw attention to the unanimous opinion of the 2nd Commission, with the exception of my colleague, Mrs Ginetti, who was rapporteur for the other Commission. I call for the article to be voted on separately. With the first paragraph of Article 5 of the provision to our examination they are included in Article 3 of Law No. 654 of 1975, as amended by the so-called Mancino law, two questions concerning the "minimization" in a serious way and the "apology." I would remind you that the opinion of the 2nd Permanent Commission considers it appropriate to include the reference to apology in the above-mentioned article, whereas reference to minimization should be made in a serious way. Taking into account the substance of the measure, which inserts both references in the aforementioned Article 3 of Law No. 654 of 1975, as amended by the so-called Mancino Act, I ask that they be voted on separately, references concerning, respectively, serious minimization and apology, so that one can vote in favour of one and not the other. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u91	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I am not going to vote on Article 5 for technical reasons and for coordination between the rules of our national law. And I will try briefly to explain the reason, although I must say, in a very clear and clear premise, that I fully and in all parts share the political, social and also ethical considerations raised and pointed out a moment ago by President Chiti, in relation to the content of these rules. However, there are technical problems, in the sense that Article 5, in particular the first paragraph, introduces a new case of crime which runs counter to the very recent decisions of Parliament and to the indications and caveats formulated only a few days ago, on 28 September, by the Justice Commission, in relation to the concept of minimization. Mr Corsini will also talk about this from a historical and political point of view: I will point out, from a technical point of view, the anomalies and the perplexities. We have legislation, which started in 1975, with the ratification of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, which introduces new crime cases, concerning propaganda, incitement and the commission of acts of discrimination. Subsequently, amendments were made to these rules, during the 1980s and in particular in 1985 and, last, with Law No 115 of 16 June 2016, which basically included a special effect, with the imprisonment from two to six years, in relation to propaganda, incitement and incitement, if based in whole or in part on the denial of the Shoah, crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as indicated by the International Criminal Court in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute. In the legislation there was no case of minimization, which is introduced by Article 5, thus providing for a new case of crime, a new factual behavior, which would be punished, among other things, with a rather serious penalty, from two to six years, which would in any case constitute an act of special effect and would allow a series of actions of punitive and investigative order, as is done for particularly serious crimes. I say this because, when Parliament recently intervened on this matter, in the Commission and then in the House, deliberately, by political choice, it considered that the concept of minimization was too broad, so as to reduce the profiles of unconstitutionality and be able to submit the rule to the examination of the Constitutional Court, which has already intervened in similar matters, precisely by sanctioning the vice of constitutional illegitimacy. That is precisely why, on 28 September of this year, the Committee on Justice seems to me to be unanimous, or almost - or in any case with a very large majority - to give a negative opinion on the matter, on the condition that Article 5 provides that the words 'on minimization in a serious way' are expunged. The constitutional profile, the action already taken in general by the Constitutional Court and the previous intervention by this Parliament in the field of minimization are very broadly justified. I repeat what I said earlier, because we are going to discuss this rule again. And this is so true that yesterday, in Commissions meeting 2a and 3a, we again addressed these issues, even from the point of view of minimization. So, if we talk about it, we'll talk about it and we'll talk about it again. It is precisely because of technical problems of coordination that we must stick to what is the correct indication of our existing national law. While taking note and sharing both the political considerations and the European caveat pointed out by President Chiti, in this situation I will not participate in the vote on Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u94	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to make a contribution to the debate by stating that the rule that we are examining here, apart from the notes that have been made on the issue of indeterminateness (which I do not touch), is, in the meantime, an aggravating factor. We're not talking about an autonomous crime. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) That's not true! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Therefore, the question of negationism, with or without minimization, is linked to the fact that it is put in place within the framework of the commission of the crime of incitement to violence. Therefore, it is not referred to anyone making a statement. In fact, it refers to paragraph 1 of Article 3 of the Mancino law and is not autonomous. Secondly, from the wording of paragraph 3-a of that Article 3, it is obvious that it is not any case that anyone can refer to Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the law establishing the international court, but to facts that, in the light of those articles, we have been judged by the international court. Therefore, this article can be applied not to someone who belittles, decreases or denies something that, if real, could be covered by Articles 6,7 and 8 of the Treaty, but only to facts judged by the international court as war crimes or crimes against humanity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u97	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, I feel it is my duty to make my doubts and doubts public, and I note, of course, that, as usual, Mr Chiti has brought very serious and widely acceptable arguments. However, I have had a problem because I spoke in the Council of Europe to express my doubts and concerns about the resolution which the Council of Europe adopted a long time ago. What gives rise to these doubts and perplexities? I would point out that there is no doubt that, with reference to the holocaust and genocide, negationism does not find in this House a single supporter and that it remains certain that we are facing the greatest criminal act carried out in the history of humanity. I share Mr Quagliariello's argument, who reiterated the unique nature of the Holocaust, in the sense that history has known many exterminations, but the Holocaust is a unique genocide. It is not the only genocide, but it is a unique genocide for its characteristics, which combine the characteristics of all the exterminations carried out in the history of humanity. What gives rise to my doubts? First of all, I do not want to go into technical matters because I am not a jurist and I do not pick up speaking on matters on which I do not have particular competence. I am very concerned, however, that within the Italian scientific community, and not only Italian but also European, there is not only one historian, there is not a single institution of European historians who access the positions that emerge, precisely, from the text, and this for three fundamental reasons. The first reason is that through the application of criminal rules the phenomenon of victimization is increased, which creates, against our will and our beliefs, an attitude of solidarity and sharing. I would like to mention the cases of the English historian Irving - I say quote historian - or of Faurisson: these are cases that those who have dealt with the matter well know and also know what the repercussions are for public opinion. The second argument, which is fundamental to me, is that the historical truth - and on this subject there are miles of bibliographies - is not a matter for the courts, to which another order of intervention belongs. Historical truth is affirmed through research, training, education, the activity of schools, universities and research centres. Moreover, when it comes to minimization, it is defined as an absolutely indeterminate and difficult to determine category in its extension and quality. However, since I realize that we all feel the responsibility for a battle against negationism and those who deny the evidence of crimes that have been committed (which in reality do not produce historical research, but simply wish that those facts reproduce) and in the awareness that this battle must be fought at all levels, I personally will not stand as an obstacle and I will not participate in the vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u100	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on Article 5 of the measure and the proposed amendment with regard to the reasoning and drafting of the rule, which we arrived at a short time ago, on the crime of negationism. It is clear that, at the time of the adoption of that bill, we had found a point of understanding and compromise between different instances and concerns that emerged on various fronts and we had identified it at a point of relapse that consisted of two parts: the first was the decision to take, with respect to the requests made by the European institutions, only the issue of negationism and not those of serious minimization and apology, which were already part of the demands that were being made to us in order to adapt to the commitments made at international level and at European level in particular. There we had precisely found this point of relapse. The second important action carried out on that occasion was to secure freedom of expression, opinion and scientific research, choosing not to institute a new crime of negationism, but to bring back negationism - within the Mancino law - through the creation of the new article 3-a - to the rank of aggravating of a crime however committed. Therefore, our order today does not provide for a crime of negationism, but establishes that the crimes of propaganda and incitement to hatred and the dissemination of ideas based on hatred, already provided for in Article 3 of the Mancino law, find an aggravating element where they are nourished and fueled also by a negationist hypothesis. This in our debate, already then, has removed any doubt about the fact that this law could be used to punish actions related to academic activity, research or the free expression of opinion, bringing together the crime of negationism in the beehive of aggravating compared to those who had already committed an offence already punished by our law. We are now in a somewhat different situation than that, because this is not just a request from the European institutions, but an infringement procedure against Italy. It is a question of understanding whether, while maintaining the status of aggravating and not a new crime to the hypothesis we are talking about, we make a strong and extremely significant differentiation from our reasoning a few months ago. I do not think so, because in my opinion the most important act that was done on that occasion was to avoid introducing the crime of negationism. Today, therefore, to assume alongside the hypothesis of negationism that of serious minimization or apology (although then we had decided to put it aside), in the face of the hypothesis of being in European position to be subject to infringement procedure for that specific decision - or not to proceed in the face of cases of serious minimization of the Holocaust - I believe that it is the direction obliged, accepting, precisely, the wording present in this text of law, with all the safeguards already put in place. I simply add, as Senator Chiti mentioned earlier, that it exists in Europe - I say this to Senator Quagliarello, who called the liberals attention to the issue of freedom of expression - a body that more than any other protects the individual freedom of persons and is the European Court of Human Rights, which has repeatedly stated that the principle of freedom of expression, sculpted in the European Convention on Human Rights, can find limits where they put themselves at risk by their actions, including verbal ones, other rights also guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights, and this is obviously one of those cases. I would also add, ladies and gentlemen, that we must not forget that the Mancino law, which we are talking about, was submitted in 2006, by Law No 85, known as the law against crimes of opinion, to a review on which the center-right, which at the time wanted that law, sang victory over the abolition of crimes of opinion from our system. It, in fact, which substantially modified certain aspects of the Mancino law, on the one hand by reducing penalties, on the other hand by modifying the terms used, so that the dissemination of ideas would become "propaganda" and "incitement" would become "incitement"; therefore, that law was also brought back into a beehive that guarantees the freedom of expression of persons and places the limit on freedom of expression only where, as the European Court of Human Rights has warned, other fundamental rights, also guaranteed by the Convention itself, are being called into question. I therefore believe that, in this context, adding the possibility of punishing, as an aggravating factor, even minimization and apology, thus avoiding the European infringement procedure, is now a legitimate choice and, for the reasons I have said before, also an obligatory one. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u103	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is clear from a cultural point of view that my position is in sharp contrast to any activity of denial of facts and tragedies of unheard of historical importance, which have received the sanction of world public opinion and those who try to recover a judgment of mitigation cannot find my sharing and our sharing of socialists. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I have been an extensor of the Commission's opinion on justice, which has found the Commission's broad agreement, and having approved the changes we have introduced on this subject at the time, with a unanimous vote by the Commission on justice, I cannot support this surrender in the face of an infringement procedure which will then have to be discussed in detail, and I hope that the Government will do so in any case. I do not believe that what comes from Brussels or Luxembourg is always in line with some basic principles. It is true that the rule of law is also affirmed through the infringement procedures and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, but there is a Constitution of ours and on the point the Constitutional Court has expressed itself explicitly on the need for the mandatory nature of the rule, on the need for the citizen to understand the extent to which it is lawful and, instead, when, crossing that border, it passes into the condition of illice. I cannot take part in this vote in favour of the article. I think it is more consistent not to participate in the vote and I believe that Mr Longo, who is part of our party, is also associated with my position.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u106	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, the subject on which we are speaking has been a long one on two fronts: on the one hand, the law and the penal code and, on the other, the cultural dimension. The problem is that we intervene badly, with general definitions and we minimize it in a serious way. The theme is delicate and those who have preceded me have highlighted well how this adheres to the elaboration of historical truth, provided that one can never speak of a historical truth and one should not recognize that history is a critical and cultural approach. It is precisely in the cultural dimension, education and education that a representation of our history, facts and events grows. To intervene in this way is clumsy; perhaps it is justified only because we intervene on such a subtle and delicate subject within such a heterogeneous measure that, in the end, perhaps the Commission on merit may not have had the time and the way to concentrate equally on each step. However, this is serious because we have worked on this and we have raised a number of problems. It is all the more serious because today in our country there is a debate that concerns the margins of interpretation and discretion to be left to the magistrates. Therefore, we constantly move in a contradictory way: sometimes we give instruments that are considered too binding and, sometimes, instead, we give instruments, such as this, too vague. It is not enough that it is included in the size of the charge. We are not making a calculation of how much weight or how light it is; we are making system considerations. The intervention is wrong and should not have been presented to this House in this way and in this way. I believe that, precisely because of the respect that Italy has (and it is right that it has) towards European legislation and its being within Europe, and not only for the financial aspects (it has been said so many times), we also have the right to hold a debate with force. Mr Gozi, I understand that it is not easy, but it is precisely on these aspects that a general credibility is at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u107	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Scuola Statale di primo (San Giovanni Bosco-Summa Villa), of Somma Vesuviana, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u108	I remember that the measure has the contingency time and some groups are running out of those available to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u111	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I shall be brief as you invite me to do. I understand why Europe is talking about serious minimization, because the Germans are talking about it, who have a serious problem from this point of view: there is a tendency to devalue those terrible crimes against humanity that we are talking about. However, I find that there is a very dangerous tendency in Italy to have the courts make history and to invest in the courts of value judgments. This is unacceptable: the battle on ideas and judgment on history must return to politics, intellectuals and debate. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia, Liuzzi and Quagliariello]] This Parliament should have discussed the measure in greater detail. It has not done so - we all know - because the legislature has been blocked from the start, in an armored majority against the opposition, and then, in order not to agree with others, they did not even listen. I think that the right has often made mistakes on the great themes of values, but it is also true that not always those errors can be the justification of an error of opposite sign. Like other senators, I therefore choose not to take part in the vote on this measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u114	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, for the reasons already explained by other Members, I too am not going to vote on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u117	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the Commission has delivered a very clear opinion, which is largely motivated by the Constitutional Court's judgments, which concludes that all this, as far as jurisdiction is concerned, expresses a non-obstacle report on the draft law with the following condition that the following words be expunged in Article 5 (1) of the draft law: on serious minimization. All this has been discussed in the Commission on the basis, precisely, of the principle of legality which the Constitutional Court has consistently stated, with the clarification that Europe must abide by certain principles - and among them the principle of legality - of our Constitutional Charter. Now, it is clear that the proposal to vote separately, made by Senator Quagliariello, allows this House to take seriously the opinion of the 2nd Commission, which has been widely discussed, or it allows us to pay tribute to the suggestion of the Commission itself and not to involve the whole of Article 5. As far as I am concerned, on behalf of my group too, I suggest that we vote for separate parts as wisely requested by Senator Quagliariello. If this proposal is not accepted by the House, we cannot vote on Article 5 as set out in this text, so we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u120	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, regardless of the divergent position of the Socialist component, we will vote in favour of Article 5, because we believe that the amendment to pursue even the minimization in a serious way is acceptable and the suggestion received by the European authorities should therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u121	I would say that this issue has been sufficiently detailed and discussed. I would ask whether there are grounds for opposition to the motion for a separate vote tabled by Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u122	Mr President, I am against the split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u123	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for the vote on Rule 5 for separate parts, tabled by Senator Quagliariello, which we will of course do by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u124	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u125	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.41 a.m. and resumed at 13.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u126	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a separate vote on Rule 5 by Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u127	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u128	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the examination of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u129	I announce that the agenda for the afternoon session on Tuesday 10 October will be supplemented by a resolution on the constitution of the Senate in court in a conflict of attribution raised by the Cosenza tribunal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u132	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to your attention the recent sentence of a judge of the Court of Cassation who annulled the sentence of life imprisonment imposed on a father for the murder of his son who, interposing between his father and his mother to defend the latter, was struck to death by a stab wound inflicted by his father. This led to the death and sentence of his father to life imprisonment in the first and second degree of judgment. The annulment of the judgment by the court of Cassation took place because, being the adopted son, Article 577 of the penal code could not be applied, which provides for the specific imposition of life imprisonment in the event of murder if this is committed against the ascendant or the descendant. Paragraph 2 of Article 577 provides for the sentence of imprisonment from twenty-four to thirty years if the matter is committed against the spouse, brother or sister, father or adoptive mother, or adopted son, or a similar in a straight line. The detailed list, provided for in paragraph 2, leaves very little room for interpretation, preventing the equivalence between the adoptive child and the natural child. It is precisely the absence of the relationship of consanguinity that carries out a discriminatory function of the constraint of adoption in the attribution of the sanction. The bond of blood, as the foundation of the worsening of the penalty, is anachronistic in relation to a notion of family changed over time, which today is certainly more based on the assiduousness of coexistence, than on the existence of a bond of consanguinity. The rule is therefore affected by the historical period in which the penal code was born, and at present it is particularly unfair when it makes a discriminatory distinction between the close family bond following the conclusion of an adoption procedure. This procedure requires, on the contrary, greater willingness and motivation to enter into a family bond. If, on the one hand, the civil code no longer makes any distinction between adopted and natural children, who now enjoy the same rights and duties, on the other hand, the penal code has not yet transposed this equivalence. It is for all that I have said that I felt it necessary to present a draft law that aims to amend Articles 576 and 577 of the Criminal Code, explicitly providing for the equivalence of a adoptive bond in the interpretation of the concept of ancestry and descent for the purpose of the worsening of penalty provided for in the articles mentioned. I hope that the measure will be supported by many Members of the Commission. [[Applause from the Mixed-Idv and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u135	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a couple of days ago a report was aired by the "Iene" on Congressman Mario Caruso, born from the complaint of a young assistant, Federica, previously an intern, exploited for over a year without pay. At this moment in the House of Deputies the parliamentary collaborators are doing a flash mob against this kind of attitude. Today, even a well-known national newspaper reports the story. There is little to say about the substance of the matter. The girl must have crossed the line of humiliation that a human being can endure when looking for a job and money to live. According to the service, Congressman Caruso would also have surrounded her with misunderstanding messages, which to any reasonable person seem a clear proposal for exchange: sex for work. I hope that we share the view that anyone who has an institutional role and behaves in that way will cease to be honourable. Not only that, who behaves like this stops being a politician, a man of state and instead turns into what he should have fought. In the face of the accusations, Congressman Caruso has threatened to show his country how to behave, winking at what, perhaps to certain stereotypes of the South that, again, should fight and not encourage. His country, however, with the capital "P" is Italy. He was elected abroad (but in a virtuous nation, Germany), and yet he represents Italy, where there are precise laws and regulations, justice is not done on its own and the exploitation of work is a crime, as well as abuse of its role. This fact affects me in various ways, first of all as a woman because the demand to exchange certain favors with a contract is terrible, as well as pathetic, and above all indicates that the battles for gender equality are not at all transposed by certain individuals, the same ones who - perhaps - pretend to be angry at how certain foreign cultures treat women. The story also touches me as a nurse, seen as we nurses are always "named" because I know well that world of sacrifices and difficulties, misunderstandings and sweat that the world of work presents to you. I know what it's like to look for him and not have a clear vision of the future, even though I'm lucky because I've been a public employee for 20 years now. Our world of work is constantly on the move and waiting for something to be done and there are always better rules and solutions to regulate a situation too often border line and too often even out of order. Young and less young continue to work for nothing, or almost nothing, in an eternal return of gimmicks and term calls that do not allow them to build a past, nor to assure the future. For our part, that is, of those who have a position, a role in the government of the country, to participate in the disaster instead of trying to restrain it is one of the greatest faults. As I said, this is a matter for me as a politician and as an institutional office. I am also represented by each of my colleges here and in the House and, in the same way, I, who am fortunate to be in Parliament, represent the other Members. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Bencini. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Behaviors like those of Congressman Caruso throw discredit on the whole category, including me. The trust in the people in the institutions is already almost completely lost and for these reasons the citizens have seen their representatives become smaller and smaller, lowering the quality of the debate day by day but raising their tones (typical of some political parts); they have seen them first delinquere in secret and then, as last stocked, they have also seen them stop worrying about keeping it secret and delinquere with an open face. In this affair... president. You have to finish, Senator Bencini. It's five minutes. We can't go on. At most I authorize you to deposit your computer. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). You're right, President, I'll finish. I hope that a solution will be found, and I would also urge that we find a way of regulating parliamentary collaborators as well as in Europe. Just make a copy and paste: as we do in Europe so we do in our Parliament, so we avoid this type of diversification of employment contracts. I also urge the President of the Boldrini Chamber, who is so much spent on these situations, to find a solution... PRESIDENT. We're at the Senate here, Senator Bencini! Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I know, ma'am, but as you say, scripta manent, verba volant. In this case, "verba registratam." [[Applause from Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u138	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I urge the Government to intervene immediately on the employment situation of Ericsson, the great Swedish company. We are used to looking at Sweden as a great nation that has an advanced social welfare system where the person is at the center of the attention of government policies. So I cannot understand why in Italy this Swedish company completely changes the way of reasoning, because it means, at this point, that the Italian Government does not take these situations seriously, it really takes them under the table. We therefore urge the Government to intervene in this company crisis and to apply all the techniques of moral suasion so that this company does not proceed to further dismissals. It is expected in mid-2018 that the number of redundancies will even reach 600. I really can't understand how this government can still stand up with a way of managing the country that is really leading it to ruin. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u141	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, over the past few weeks I have presented an act of inspection union to the Ministry of Infrastructure, Question 3-03999, on the very sensitive issue of the management of the South-East Railways to which no reply has yet been given. This is a very complex question in which I asked a series of questions and questions about the current management which, I would like to remind you, has completely passed over to Ferrovie dello Stato. There have also been a lack of collisions, but there is management, from the point of view of the agreements that would appear - and this requires an immediate response from the Minister - rather opaque. In recent days I have been reported other violations of the agreements agreed, which they would have punctually verified, beginning with the assumptions that would be made in violation of the agreements through administration companies. I would like to ask Mr Delrio an immediate answer to this question and, above all, an immediate check whether the information that has been passed to me is real, because we risk, for a society that has had very serious problems of operation, that we find ourselves in a situation in which the agreement could also fail, sending to cards forty-eight the work of rehabilitation on which the Government had committed itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-891.ana.u142	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.15 a.m.
