ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u4	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2629. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u9	First of all, I would like to congratulate you because you managed to make 20 billion of the Italian political debate disappear and replaced them with 97 million of the fake, because it was a resounding fake, the Ryder Cup. Instead of talking about 20 billion, which is a colossal figure, the Italians found themselves debating 97 million fakes, because it was clear that the amendment in question in this House would never be accepted. You will always find a way to insert it, but in the meantime you have distracted the attention. The 20 billion have ended, at the level of visibility, in the midst of the mortuary announcements, as the good Gassman would say, so congratulations. You also mentioned Article 47 of the Constitution, which protects savings. I would prefer it to say that it protects savers, but it seems to me that this decree-law, which is called bank-saving, in the end saves banks, not savings, so, once again, there is a slight mystification of reality. By the way, this reminds me so much of a refrain that was going around at the time of the 2007 banking crisis, when it was said that money had to be given to banks so that banks would lend money to the citizens, which, of course, never worked and served the banks only to make the maquillage of their accounts. Obviously, since history has taught you nothing, let's repeat the same speech: let's give money to private banks that should use them to stabilize their accounts and, at the same time, not destroy the savings placed in them. Too bad I didn't quite understand which saver you refer to: the currentist, in fact, for now is quiet, but the subordinate obligatory, that loses everything. In fact, it should be remembered that the rules, in the case of a bank that wants the financial guarantee and therefore wants the State to become shareholder, provide first of all the bail in, i.e. the cancellation of shareholders and subordinated bondholders. So all you do is apply that rule without calling it that, of course. Another lesson you have not yet learned from history dates back to the mid-1980s, when the Japanese banking system went into crisis for the same reasons. History says that then Japanese public debt increased three times: two thirds of the current stock of Japanese public debt comes from operations on banks that had the same problems as now, that is, had lent money "to any" without guarantees, on the same assumption that it created this bubble in Europe and in Italy, that is the excessive expansion of the real estate market. For those of you who remember it, there was a nice article in the "Corriere della Sera" that showed a square of 15 square centimetres and said that at Ginza, Tokyo, that space cost a million lire. There were intergenerational mortgages and banks were lending money to buy homes that, in Tokyo's metropolitan area alone, were worth as much as the entire real estate assets of the United States of America. The pattern you're following is the same. This is something to keep in mind, because history should teach something. Another thing I'd like to remind you is that all this is powered by the hook you're hanging us on and that Mr. Mario Draghi threw. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr. Mario Draghi has given the banking system all this liquidity for the banking system to settle its accounts. The banking system used this liquidity to distort credit throughout Europe, not just in Italy. This credit distortion, caused by the industrial amounts of money, created the ease with which banks lent money to those who could not repay them. After all this, you tell us that for 2017 alone you want to put your hands on 20 billion euros of taxpayers. And since money is not created from nothing (never was a phrase more true than that of economists that says: there are no free meals), money, a state, how does it produce them? Either by printing money, and we can't do that, or by debt, or by taking them from taxes. We've decided to owe you. The history that this figure does not fall within the debt calculated for the purposes of Maastricht's return parameters is also a "brain": it does not fall within it but there is, it does not enter the deficit-GDP calculation but it enters into the debt-GDP calculation. This is the game of the three cards made with one card and also false! We cannot tell these things to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then there is another aspect. You have decided that the State can become a shareholder of banks that have a capital crisis, but when you become a shareholder you must first understand what, while you prevent it: you do not do a due diligence, you do not go to see who has been lent the money and you do not intervene in management. Let's talk about how the state should become a shareholder. The State should become shareholder of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena in a price fork ranging from 0 to 20 euros, with a closing of the shares of 15 euros made on an average of the stock prices of the last thirty days. But what sense can stock exchange courses have, which are always the result of speculation in the short term and live from rumor? You can't become a shareholder of a bank without knowing what you're buying. If the Monte dei Paschi di Siena asks the State to become shareholder, it means that it is 0 or, as the Americans say, a cent, that is, a symbolic price. So what should be the value of the newly issued shares? Pro forma. But the state should have 99 percent of the capital. This should happen if you want to manage the citizens' money fairly. So I'd like to ask you a question. Where do you want to stop? We have seen that these banks are systemic, in the sense that they systematically create problems. Unicredit is the next on the list, it is launching a capital increase of 13 billion euros, but, again, money cannot invent them. When the shareholders, who are banks, will do the capital increase, how will they do it? By issuing new bonds that, once again, will flood the market. A bank's toxicity will be dumped on the saver. I have not heard a word from anyone on this subject. Nothing, total zero. If we want to stop at EUR 20 billion, we have to say so, and if we have to go up to the value of suffering, it is EUR 340 billion. You want to stop at 340? The truth is that you are putting the first brick to make Italy commissioner and the vehicle - the Trojan horse - are the banks. These 20 billion euros are the taste. We're not gonna make ourselves commissary like this! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u10	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the undisputed protagonist of this decree-law is Monte dei Paschi di Siena. In the post-war period, Monte dei Paschi di Siena was controlled by local politics: first municipalities and provinces and then, from the 1970s, also by the Region. Globalisation has meant that we need to be bigger, more efficient and more dynamic. At that time, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena foundation was initially opposed to any kind of concentration so that political power would not lose control of the bank. Finally we arrive at the beginning of 2008 and, in the first months of the year, Monte dei Paschi buys Antonveneta to strengthen itself. At the time, Antonveneta was worth about 6 billion euros, but is paid by Monte dei Paschi di Siena 9 billion euros. In September 2008, with the Lehman Brothers crisis, Antonveneta's value fell to around €44.5 billion. Since then, Monte dei Paschi di Siena has started a run-up, with various messes, to cover the consequences of a purchase absolutely out of the ordinary and too expensive, as well as the fact that over the years credits had been granted to customers unable to pay, which were further put in trouble by the economic crisis and which, therefore, have become even less capacious and solvent. In those years - I am talking about the years 2010 and 2011 - many European countries and the world have helped their banks. In America, England and other countries private banks that were in difficulty were advertised, which were managed well and then sold, with a profit for the State. Germany in those years has consistently helped its banking system by putting money into it. In the meantime, the Monti, Letta and Renzi Governments not only did not intervene, but shared at European level that it was established that banks would no longer be helped by the end of 2014. Rules have been approved for which, whoever had had, had had and who had given, had given and from that moment on banks would have been treated as different economic actors and could not have intervened. Today, in exceptional cases, this is done under the close control of the Union and the European Commission. I mean, when we could try to solve our problems, we didn't. We do it now under the worst possible conditions. We were unpredictable and self-harmful. I think the decree-law has been improved in the Commission. I acknowledge the rapporteur, Mr Marino, the Government and all my colleagues, the opposition and the majority, that they have worked in good faith to try to improve the text and something, indeed, we do not mind. For example, it has been established that Parliament can control what will happen in Monte dei Paschi and in the other banks in which the State should intervene. Every four months there will be an information report from the Government, which is for Parliament to be vigilant and not to neglect, and I think Parliament will be able to play its role. We are relatively confident that no bondholder gains illegally at the expense of the Italian taxpayer. We are, on the other hand, very dissatisfied with the absolutely inadequate answer, in our opinion, given to the problem of transparency. On this point the Government made us a proposal to which it was then bound. I read it, to avoid not being precise: In the four-monthly report to Parliament, the Minister for Economic Affairs will give information on the risk profile and credit quality of the entities to which the bank has claims that are in distress for an amount equal to or greater than one percent of the assets. We have found in the Commission that, in September 2016, Monte dei Paschi di Siena's assets amounted to EUR 160 billion, therefore, reporting on those suffering for 1% means talking about a figure of 1.6 billion. I don't think there's any of these subjects or they're one or two, at most, so it sounded ridiculous. The Commission, on a proposal also from the rapporteur and the Government, approved the amendment by my colleague, Mr D'Ali, which refers to 1% of net worth; the current net worth is 9 billion, so it means that we are talking about 90 million, which are many, but surely there are sufferings equal to or greater than 90 million. What is absolutely not understandable to us is that we have limited ourselves to this, that it is a very cryptic act that will not give names, and that the Government and the majority have refused to do that transparency operation that has been urged by a great revolutionary: the president of the Italian Banking Association. That in the measure under consideration we do not allow the public to know the directors who gave too much money to people who did not deserve them (I define them so, because today they represent a suffering or a loss for the bank) and that we did not want to indicate the names of the beneficiaries, according to my point of view means that the government and the majority have not interpreted the feeling of public opinion, that they realize, even if with annoyance, that it is necessary to help the banks in difficulty because they are useful to the Italian system, but that they would at least want to know why the taxpayers' money is being spent. The Government and Parliament have decided not to do so and it seems to me and the Forza Italia Group that this was a very serious mistake. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u12	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u13	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the very valuable work carried out by the Committee on Finance and Treasury on this measure should be highlighted here, thanks to the guidance and wise action of its President, as well as the rapporteur for the measure. This is not a ritual or formal thanks, because both the majority and the opposition have played a role of deepening, also making important changes to the text, as has been underlined by various interventions, in the report of President Marino and, last, of Vice President Carraro. I would like to point out that this measure - which I will return to in my speech to explain the main aspects of it, which I believe to be important - protects savers, our financial system, our economy, businesses and families. This is an innovative measure, as a precautionary measure compared to hypothetical situations of difficulty, arising from stress tests, in which credit institutions can be found and which can be perceived by the market. So we intervene first, avoiding situations in which the bank goes into disarray, with very heavy and negative consequences for savers. We are talking about this and about interventions contained in relation to what has been done by other countries. The ruling class and those responsible for the country's leadership have been heavily criticized, but I think there are other countries that have given many taxpayers' resources - just quote Germany - in order to preserve the financial system and, therefore, the credit system and savers. We must therefore avoid always talking about banks and bankers, because in this way we offer totally misleading information. I would now like to address two aspects, which have been at the heart of the debate and which have been very critical. I am referring first of all to the amendment on the Ryder Cup. I would like to point out that we have respect for the decision of inproposity taken by President Grasso, a subject that is always complex, which requires attention and deepening. The Senate Finance and Treasury Committee considered the amendment acceptable, but we note, as we have heard in this House today, that the President of the Senate was of different opinion. However, on the merits of this amending proposal, I think I have to spend one more word, in order to avoid giving the outside a totally misleading projection and information: we are talking about one of the highest sporting events in the world, to be celebrated in 2022, for which there is a global follow-up and international television coverage and that therefore can promote the country, as well as helping the economy, generate investments and promote tourism. Then you can say that you are against the Olympics, against the construction of stadiums and against sporting events. Everyone makes their own choices, but this is what we are talking about and with regard to interventions of which, although I am of different opinion, I appreciate the balance, when some colleagues say that they have nothing to say about the initiative and the event, we felt that the use of this instrument was inappropriate. There was a theme related to the guarantee that we gave, as we did for these events, to allow its realization, but all the media construction around this event, presenting it as a shocking fact and obscuring the goodness of the provision to protect savers, is wrong. Another element that has created difficulties, and which has been taken up by Vice-President Carraro, is the issue of transparency. Here, too, in a balanced comparison, there is a motivation behind the choice that has been made. On the one hand, there is the openness and willingness of the majority and the Government to amend an amendment that, in fact, presented the problems reported by Vice President Carraro, those of a threshold too high that made the norm useless. On the other hand, having brought it back to more balanced terms, which give the opportunity to know profiles and credits that represented and represent important sufferings, we did not want, despite the release of the president of the ABI, to shift the attention on debtors with a sort of pervading media attention regarding the responsibilities. This is the most important aspect, given that many credits have been deteriorated due to economic problems, real problems and actual problems of a crisis and a very long recession. On the other hand, the four-monthly report on risk profiles tends to focus on those who paid out credit that should not have been paid. The measure introduces measures, through the availability of public support, to ensure liquidity and strengthen the assets of banks in difficulty, in order to guarantee the economic and financial stability of the country and protect savings and savers. Other favors to bankers! These measures are part of the regulatory framework set out in the Commission Communication on State aid to banks in the context of the financial crisis and in the Directive on the recovery and resolution of banks in crisis, taking advantage of their flexibility margins. Among the most important are the rules on the capital strengthening of banking institutions through public recapitalisation measures, i.e. the possibility for the State to subscribe to increases in the capital of banks in accordance with the provisions of the Community legislator with the BRD Directive and the European Commission guidelines on State aid. This mechanism, to which the Monte dei Paschi di Siena bank has already requested access, is an important step forward compared to previous government interventions. The bank, accessing the "precautionary recapitalisation" introduced by the decree-law in conversion, will be able to start a serious recovery path, indispensable for our economy. For the first time, a "precautional" public asset strengthening intervention (without triggering crisis procedures) is introduced only in the presence of a need arising in the adverse scenario of a stress test conducted at national, European or single supervisory mechanism, to remedy a serious disturbance in the economy of a Member State and preserve its financial stability. The ratio of this mechanism is that an intermediary, even if solvent, can be perceived as being excessively risky by the market under adverse conditions of stress, which could in itself lead to a deterioration of its situation and, therefore, insolvency. The precautionary recapitalisation can therefore resolve cases where information asymmetries hinder the smooth functioning of market mechanisms, generating risks for individual intermediaries and for financial stability. A further area of intervention is measures to support the liquidity of the banking system. The liquidity support measures consist in granting the State guarantee on liabilities issued after the entry into force of the Decree-Law and on emergency liquidity disbursements by the Bank of Italy. The guarantee aims to support the collection capacity of intermediaries, facilitating the issuance of new securities and expanding the availability of instruments accepted by the market or by the Bank of Italy as collateral in the financing operations. The conditions for admission to the guarantee, its remuneration, the characteristics of the guaranteed liabilities and the commitments to be made by the beneficiary banks are defined in accordance with the European Commission's guidelines on State aid. The guarantee may be issued until 30 June 2017, unless extended by six months. The State intervention in support of the capital of banks provided for in the Decree-Law aims to prevent the hypothetical difficulties of an intermediary from leading to actual difficulties, with consequences for the intermediary itself and for the overall stability of the financial system. It moves within the framework of European legislation in this area and can only be activated by the use of precise conditions. Compared to a not too recent past, with the measure under discussion, the legislator's approach is innovative from a number of points of view. Mr President, due to the lack of time available, I would like to be able to attach the text of the speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Moscardelli (PD). Finally, I would like to stress that with this measure we protect citizens, savers and preserve the credit system, which is essential to generate income and to support the economy and businesses. This system plays this role, particularly in Italy, where it is the almost unique channel, still today, of support for the real economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u14	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment, which I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2629 of the conversion of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016, which incorporates the amendments proposed by the Commission with the exclusion of those declared impossible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u16	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. Pending the convening of the Conference of Leaders for the organization of work, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.23 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u17	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the Decree-Law on urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector. For the discussion on trust, which will begin immediately, one hour was allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will then follow and call it, which will take place at 7.30 p.m. The Conference of Leaders also decided that tomorrow morning the Assembly would not hold a meeting to allow the work of the Commissions, in particular on the 1st and 5th with regard to the decree-law extending deadlines, which will be discussed at the afternoon sitting next Tuesday. Finally, the inspection union session scheduled for the afternoon of tomorrow is confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u18	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u19	Mr President, as a group, we are intervening on the request for confidence because we have not had time, for a disguide, to speak in general debate. Therefore, we take the floor to confirm our vote against this measure, for the reasons that Senator Longo will explain in an explanation of vote. I'd like to discuss it a little bit more in detail. We have repeatedly questioned the underlying causes of the current banking crisis. We have referred to the terrible economic situation which, since 2008, has led to a dramatic backwardness of the country's situation, not only from the economic and financial point of view, but also from the social point of view: an aspect that worries us most of all. As an old socialist, I cannot forget that in the 1980s, even for a few months, Italy surpassed the United Kingdom in terms of income produced and income per head. Yes, there was Bettino Craxi at that time. I heard that today, Mr President, you received the President of Tunisia and this great statesman of ours, who had led Italy to be the fifth economic power in the world, had to be welcomed into that country. Today the difference with the United Kingdom exceeds 30% to our disadvantage, and this is a model example of what our Group will argue with Senator Eva Longo. It was therefore inevitable that this crisis had a direct and immediate reflection on the structures of our banking system, which, unlike other countries, remains the main infrastructure that guarantees the functioning of our economy. Having said that, however, we cannot drown in the macroeconomic data; there are personal responsibilities that are widespread and concern both the management of the banks and an entrepreneurial class that has all too often used unscrupulously privileged channels to obtain unjustified funding, also politically and mainly partyically (of one part), in a combination whose burden is bound to burden taxpayers' pockets. For this reason we would have liked to know some names, not many: we talked about the first 100 debtors of the Mount of the Paschi, but give us the first 70 or the first 50, give us some. As you give us those of the other banks, give us also those of the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, to avoid that in the night all cats are big. It is not only an economic problem; there is also that component, but it is a problem of an exquisitely political nature and, if it allows me, with an indisputable ethical foundation: at the moment when we ask for yet another sacrifice to the community, it is also good not to cover beyond measure the guilty, those who have unjustly enriched themselves leaving the wax on the hands of the community, especially those who do not have sufficient resources to make ends meet and who today are called to pay to guarantee a few unjustified impunity. We are not saving the bank with public money to recapitalise it, but we are saving so many great entrepreneurs who have not been so, because they have only created holes and have enriched themselves with public money; entrepreneurs who from the post-war period to today, but above all from the nineties onwards, have privatised profits, that is, put money in their pockets when they earned, and made public their losses, have socialized them. We are saying that for the manoeuvre of 3.4 billion, which the European Union has asked us, we will have to increase excise duties on fuel, impose new taxes on salts, tobacco and alcohol; we will therefore have to influence more and more families and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are saving Italy, because anyway the big entrepreneurs are the ones who make money give them by the banks (so much they do not return them) and then become presidents of Confindustria, entrepreneurs in publishing and other fields, but they do it with money not theirs. The optimism of the will is a precious thing, but on condition of not overdoing. The situation of Italian banks is less solid than one would like to believe: we have four institutes, Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the two Venetians and Banca Carige, which are in trouble; Unicredit, the second Italian group, is struggling with a dramatic increase in capital; not entirely clear maneuvers concern Mediobanca which is the gateway to the Generali's control. Then there is the theme of non-performing loans. In the documents of the Ministry of Economy itself, banking suffering is encrypted in June 2016 - they are public data, you can go to verify them - and they are equal to 121 billion, about 21 percent of the credits paid out. Half of this figure comes from the crisis in the construction and construction sectors, a side effect of the measures taken by the Monti Government in introducing the notorious taxation on the house, whose macroeconomic consequences have been totally underestimated and we are still paying them now. From these few data it can be seen that it will not be easy to figure it out. We believe that Parliament, the great absentee on such important issues, must in turn make an act of contrition. As early as 2014, the IMF report on financial stability had launched its alarm cry on an increasingly less sustainable situation, as our country was at the top of the risk pyramid. We should therefore all reflect on these issues and provide for the necessary corrective measures. For too long we have left exclusively the management of such a vital sector for the development of the Italian economy and society to independent authorities such as CONSOB and the Bank of Italy that such must remain in the daily operation. Perhaps, then, their wrong representatives should not send them to the Presidents of the Council or the Presidents of the Republic, but independence cannot be exchanged for the absence of any control, albeit non-invasive. My group and I hope that the Committee of Inquiry, provided for in numerous legislative proposals, will soon be set up to deal with problems which are not only of a financial nature but also necessary institutional aspects in order to effectively implement Article 47, which our constituent Fathers, very courageously, have included in the Constitution, which, I would like to remind you, gives the Republic the task of protecting savings. I shall end by leaving the conclusions to my colleague, Mr Eva Longo, who will make the explanation of vote, saying that we have also said in the Commission that no use of public money is possible without a Commission of Inquiry to show citizens how politics can take responsibility, even when it comes to offering transparency to citizens and not just when it comes to offering money to banks. On the Commission of Inquiry something seems to be moving but it is not yet there. If we add to this that the Government has shown that it is against the proposal to make public the names of the large debtors of the banks recapitalised and saved with public money, there does not seem to be any extremes for our support of the measure. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u20	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education Riccardo Lotti-Umberto I, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u21	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, we can say that we are at the bedside of the Italian banking system and the Government is proposing a solution to get out of this situation. We can say that the credit institutions did what they wanted. Clearly, they didn't do as well as they had to do. It is true that only Monte dei Paschi di Siena is mentioned in the measure, but other banks that may be in the same situation are referred to. We know that these banks are CariChieti, Banca Etruria, Banca Marche and Banca Carige, for which the positives and sufferings have been broken. We would have a bad bank and the others going on without the burdens of previous banks. We are not talking about the Venetian banks, but we hope that Venetian savers will also be granted the dignity of being treated like others. Almost like a Cassandra, the Northern League - here we have to rewind the tape and go back a little - had partly predicted this situation at the time when there was talk of reform of the banking system. Once banks made banks, collected savings and borrowed money. In Italy there was only one bank - Mediobanca - that made merchant bank. At some point the system expands, liberalizes and allows all banks to do what they want. Banks start to finance and forget their main purpose, namely to raise and lend money. Undoubtedly, when creditors are in difficult situations, it is better to invest money in securities, shares and partnerships with secure returns or, in any case, greater than those resulting from the loan of money. Now the system has been banged and we, as opposition and minority, are being blackmailed. Now we should shoot up zero and we will do it with the grace we need, but with the firmness we need in these moments. You put us under blackmail the moment you say: all in all, at this moment we must defend the savers. We, too, are of the view that at the moment the weak people under the landslide are the poor savers: normal citizens - self-employed and employees, but also pensioners - who had some savings and, thinking of making it safe, have instead found themselves in this situation. It is not serious on your part to blackmail minorities and oppositions by saying that we must follow the line that the Government has decided, namely to save banks to save save savers. I ask a small question: does the government know what fairness is? A lot of savers have suffered incredible damage. Some people have literally lost all their assets. I'm talking about fairness for a simple reason. Why are Monte dei Paschi di Siena savers, even if at the purchase price, compensated at 100% of the loss? Why do the savers of CariChieti, Banca Etruria, Banca Marche and Banca Carige, if they manage to optimize the yield, will be compensated for 80% of their losses? Why are the savers of the People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank even children of a lesser God, since they are not really talking about the ways, nor the percentages of compensation intended for them? Should we think that the government has used double standards (or even three weights and three measures), perhaps favouring savers geographically closest to the government area? We also need to tell you something else. You're absolutely shameless. In the drama that not us, the government or Parliament, but the swindled savers are living, insert a sporting demonstration to be financed with the money that we ask the Italians to heal these inefficiencies. Golf is certainly a classic Italian national popular sport, but is it a coincidence that, following a major protest by the League, the Government had to back down? The President of the Senate had to apply our Rules of Procedure with the exception of the amendment, approved by the majority in the Commission, which included the figure of about 150 million, which were diverted from the compensation of savers, to dedicate them to a sporting demonstration, without taking away the dignity that can have any kind of sport, activity or demonstration. It would have been a sneaky joke. Undersecretary, you will have the most up-to-date situation of all of us. Today, fortunately, banks - I am not referring to those we are talking about because they have gone wrong - again have savings gains. They can pick up. The banks have cash in the cash register. What is the government supposed to do right now? He didn't do any checking before. Neither CONSOB nor Banca d'Italia have been monitored in the supervisory activity that should have avoided this situation. The only measure that would be needed now is to force banks to step back and lend money because the Italian industrial, craft and productive system is in a impasse because it has no right to credit. We have taken a number of measures whereby banks are allowed to invest money in securities rather than lending them. In order to lend them, we need guarantees that so many economic activities cannot provide today. If they do not have access to the credit via the bank credit channel, there are no other legal channels that can satisfy the need to access the credit. I touch a button that could be read badly, but I'd like to explain myself well. I am referring to the reform of the public administration. Minister Madia, among other things, has decided that the cunning of the public administration will be severely punished. It's not wrong. A janitor who, after punching the tag, goes out for more than ten minutes to drink a coffee can risk his dismissal because he had to be at work and instead he was somewhere else. We do not want to defend the public employee, but it is possible that the janitor must pay with the risk of dismissal and that the administrators, who have emptied the pockets of hundreds of thousands of savers, thus obliging the government to ask the Italians to heal all these holes, are not even asked a minimum assumption of responsibility, if it is established? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Moreover, they are rewarded with millionaire liquidations. It was also possible to confiscate commissions until the responsibilities of these gentlemen had been acclaimed. I remember these guys weren't fired, but they left their jobs with scandalous millionaire liquidations. The Government, with the system of guarantees - alive Italy and the great system of protection of privacy - has also decided that the names of those who have benefited from large robberies and have brought to their knees the Italian banking institutional system must be covered. Does this look like a normal country to you? How do we, with all the respect we have for savers, for those who are paying a very heavy duty resulting from this situation, give confidence to this Government? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u23	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles on Amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u24	Mr President, the 5th Commission has examined the text of the maxi amendment of the Government, it has found that the text reflects in good time the amendments adopted in the Commission, net of what has been declared unprobable. Furthermore, the text is accompanied by the technical report, contains the amendments adopted and all the amendments adopted had been rejected by the 5th Commission. Therefore, the 5th Commission's opinion on amendment 1,900 is null and void.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u25	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u28	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I now declare, at the beginning of my speech, that the Northern League Group is naturally opposed to voting on the government's trust, but it is also contrary to the content of the decree-law under consideration, as we did last December, when we did not vote in favour of the authorization requested by the Government to in debt of 20 billion euros the Italian citizens, in an attempt, at the last moment, to save the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. The main reason for our opposition is linked to a very simple concept: we do not see any strategy in the action of this Government and the previous in defense of savers and the Italian credit system. In these few years you have taken a number of measures, which do not have any coherence between them. In November 2015 you approved a decree-law called bank-saving, which established a very simple criterion, namely that, from evening to morning, with a simple decree-law of the Government, tens of thousands of citizens and families can lose their savings, simply because the Government decides to issue a measure that decrees the bankruptcy of some banks. The decree-law that was issued stated another key concept, namely that the irreversible crisis of citizens' confidence in banks should, unfortunately, have become a certainty. (From 5.50 p.m.) (Following TOSATO). In fact, in these years we are losing all our certainties: the certainty that we have a decent job, that we have a pension treatment that will allow us to live an easier life in the future, the security of living calm and peaceful in our cities and in our homes. Well, with that decree-law you also put in crisis the certainty that your savings, deposited in the bank, are safe. You then issued the reforms of the popular banks and cooperative credit banks, which are standing on the stake, because challenged by the courts, like many other reforms of the Renzi government. You have launched the Atlas Fund to save the Popular Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank, which has led to the increase of commissions to the detriment of the accountants of almost all Italian banks. Now decide to allocate 20 billion euros of public debt in debt, to try to save the Mount of the Paschi of Siena and who knows which and how many other banks, that risk to fail. In the end, the thread that binds all these improvised and ineffective measures launched by the Government is to establish a single rule and a single certainty, that will always be paid by Italian savers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In one way or another, the various solutions have established this principle, and with different treatments between one saver and the other, among the defrauded savers of the four banks that have been victims of 100%, 80% or 20% of what happened. Different treatments that are now reserved for savers of Monte dei Paschi. And then you set another rule: that those responsible for the failure will not be called to pay for their mistakes or, worse, for their fraudulent behavior. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] TOSATO (LN-Aut). They will not pay bank managers or officials even in the face of established responsibilities. We have tabled amendments to introduce the crime of property banking crime for administrators of failed banks, who have been resolved or saved by public money; you have rejected them. We proposed a ban from public offices for these managers; you said no. We have proposed the return of tokens, extraordinary bonuses and millionaire vouchers in case of established responsibility in the banks' failures; you have also rejected this proposal. We have asked for the publication of large insolvents, of those who have obtained large loans without adequate guarantees, perhaps for political friendships, and have not returned them: another no from the Democratic Party and from the Government. We have proposed amendments to better protect the victims of the banking decrees; you have also shown indifferent to these demands and to the personal and economic dramas of too many Italian families. Ultimately, you protected those responsible and sacrificed the victims. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame! TOSATO (LN-Aut). This the North League cannot accept, and it cannot and does not want to silence it. You have delayed the very unlikely establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. That was more than a year ago. It will probably be set up in the next few weeks at the end of the parliamentary term. Delays were wanted, delays were guilty. What fears have restrained you? What responsibilities did you want to hide? You can also burn these 20 billion euros, but you will never solve, with these buffer measures, the crisis of the Italian banking system, because you do not want to attack its causes, but only its effects, in a late and absolutely ineffective way. The crisis of the banking system is in fact only one of the many consequences of the crisis of the country system. With the introduction of the euro you have sold out national interests and decreed the irreversible crisis of our productive system. Ours is a crisis of competitiveness. The euro, European constraints and abnormal taxation have put most of our businesses out of the market, which have become, often and willingly, insolvent. So there are these responsibilities, these mistakes, these negligences, which are perhaps political in nature, and above all, at the root of the crisis in the banking system. And let's not talk about the sad story of the Ryder Cup 2022, an international golf tournament. A clumsy attempt, a stroke of hand, fortunately failed, to introduce, in a decree-law that spoke of saving savings, the provision of a guarantee of 97 million euros to protect a prestigious sporting event. For God's sake, no one questions that it is, but this event had nothing to do with the emergencies that our country is experiencing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is what we have challenged from the outset. You could have included such a measure in any other measure, as in the financial, where you took it away. And it is also right to remember that in the financial 2016 you had already allocated funding for this sporting event. Maybe not everyone knows, but you have allocated €5.4 million from 2017 to 2027 totalling almost €60 million. Public money had already been allocated for this great priority in the country. And we could not allow you to pass on this amendment, which allocated another EUR 97 million; as a guarantee fund - for goodness sake - but if it is allocated there is a good chance that someone will then have to pay this guarantee to those who will organize this tournament. Fortunately, it has been removed and I believe that the protest action of the opposition and in particular of the League, and in the Commissions even outside the Senate, have played an important role because they have raised the legitimate anger of public opinion. Only in the face of this did you withdraw; only in the face of the indignation of the Italian citizens. It is a good thing that it happened in time before this measure was finally adopted, because it would have gone to discredit not only the Democratic Party, not only the Government, but the whole Parliament and we would like to try, albeit with great difficulty, to protect the reliability and credibility of a policy that has now completely lost contact with the dramatic reality that our citizens live. They look like clichés, but unfortunately it's a very sad reality. For all these reasons, the North League says no to trusting this government. It says no to those who throw 20 billion public money into the wind. He says no to those who protect those responsible and does not defend Italian savers. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the words: "Savers cheated, bankers PD pardoned" and "Govern Gentiloni shame!" and throw into the air fake banknotes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u29	Take those signs off. Invitation to Senators You have to make arrangements for those cartels to be removed. I'll call you back to order. It seems to me that the words have been sufficient and these gestures are not compatible with our Rules of Procedure, even worse the launch of objects in this House. Senator Arrigoni, I'll call you back to order. (Senator Arrigoni throws other paper money into the air). Senator Arrigoni, stop, I'll call you back for the second time. Senator Council, stop.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u32	Longo Eva (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate of ours cannot be merely a matter of taking place, and it will be followed by the inevitable choice that must be made. That the decree-law should be converted is obvious, in the face of the dramatic events that characterize the Italian banking system in general and the situation of Monte dei Paschi di Siena in particular. However, I would have expected a self-critical reflection from my colleagues in the PD, a courageous analysis of political interference that, since the end of the 1970s, have conditioned the management of one of the largest and oldest Italian banks, today reduced to the brink of bankruptcy. We talked about it several times, but it was a voice in the desert. A widespread system of complicity, which unites the various generations of that party, has concealed responsibilities that have produced property damage far greater than the individual episodes that have dotted the season of Clean Hands. In order to meet our tasks, which are based on Article 47 of our Constitution, we must therefore begin a path which will find its logical conclusion in the Commission of Inquiry which Parliament is preparing to launch. This is the necessary, even if late, instrument to recover, albeit to a very limited extent, lost time, and to propose institutional solutions that prevent the repetition of similar phenomena. Until now, Parliament has renounced its prerogatives by delegation of its tasks to the Bank of Italy and CONSOB, the main limit of which is political irresponsibility. They do not respond to any of their actions, except for the judicial authority, which intervenes, however, only to ensure the control of legality, which is necessary, but insufficient when discussing economic and financial arrangements concerning the fundamental balances of our country. I could give a thousand examples of the shortcomings that have been found: the chronicles of these years are full of them. I will limit myself to a striking case: the rules on bail in: pass without any political discussion, and then discover, lately, their devastating character on a reality, like the Italian one, in which the financial wealth of Italian families is a precious asset to protect. Let me remind you of some data. According to the latest report on financial stability published by Banca d'Italia, the offer of financing to the economic system is still less than 6 points of GDP, compared to 2013, a not brilliant year for the national economy. A current account surplus of EUR 42 billion corresponds to a capital outflow of EUR 355 billion: more than eight times as much. What do these data tell us? That the banking system cannot finance the real economy and that the savings market, in Italy, has become hunting ground by the great giants of international finance. Just in these days Jean-Pierre Mustier, the CEO of Unicredit, has ironized on Italian conspiracy paranoia regarding French strategies towards Mediobanca and, above all, Generali. No attempt at acquisition, he said in his interview with... "La Stampa": we'll see. In the meantime, however, we cannot hold hands. Bolloré also seemed willing to cooperate with Mediaset. It was not by chance that he had signed a contract for the acquisition of Premium, then canceled to give rise to a hostile climb against the admiral of Silvio Berlusconi. These are episodes that show how credible certain statements are. In the face of such situations, Parliament cannot close its eyes or demand the government's ever-late intervention; it must ensure that the oxen escape from the stables. We will therefore have to discuss how to fill this gap, in the knowledge that the financial committee alone, which is overburdened with so many tasks, cannot be the sole guardianship. Moreover, the problems have a dimension that cannot be ignored, as has been the case in recent years. What is behind the crisis of Italian banks, whose role in the overall balance of the system is so crucial? We are a counter-centric country, as we often hear repeated: its overall economic development, in other words, depends on the operation of this important infrastructure. Of the creaks of the system we realized with serious delay. Already in 2012 the International Monetary Fund had launched an alarm, dropped. At that time, the anger and suffering had exceeded the level of guard, having reached a smaller size only than Greece and Ireland. Has there been any discussion of this? Were any acts of inspection union presented? Did the government give Parliament spontaneous information? Only a deafening silence, son of the few institutional garrisons placed in defense of Italian savings. One of the justifications put forward to address, a posteriori, this problem was that of the country's serious economic crisis, of its industrial destructuring, with a loss of about 25% of its productive potential. There is of course truth in this diagnosis, but it is also characterized by partiality. It is said - but the figure must be verified - that more than 70 percent of the insuffering concerns medium-sized companies. The case of Sorgenia, which belongs to the De Benedetti galaxy, would seem to confirm the case. However, the figures do not return, given the scale of the phenomenon. And here then is the necessary deepening. More than half of the stranded loans relate to construction: the big black hole in this country, whose dynamics depend on about 20% of GDP. The collapse of that market, caused by the sudden measures of mountain austerity, has produced an avalanche effect. He's caused widespread insolvencies. Having led to a fall in market prices, in the order of 30 to 50%, it compromised the guarantee system, forcing individual credit institutions to corresponding capital increases. And what about the public debt securities purchased and then subjected to the scythe of capital losses? Loss that could not be amortised, due to the malfunctioning of the tax system, except in the long run. This, therefore, is the most realistic picture: losses due to the bad economic situation, to the crisis in the real estate market and to the need of the Italian tax authorities to make cash; as well as to the misversations of managers more attentive to their prebende - not always legal - than to guide with discipline and honor, in accordance with the provisions of Article 54 of our Constitution, the companies for which they were responsible. And that the exercise of the credit must be considered a public function, albeit in a broad sense, it is argued that it cannot be denied. The things I just said, at least as far as we're concerned, weigh like a boulder. They show how complex the hinterland that is at the origin of this crisis is, and how it cannot be dealt with by resorting only to extemporaneous measures. We must prevent the emergence of any other small or large disasters, and this will only be possible if, during the investigation by the Commission of Inquiry, we can identify the necessary institutional safeguards, which do not leave only the sector's "non-responsible" the task of exclusive and absorbent supervision. Let us now anticipate what will be our proposal. We want, as soon as possible, to arrive at the establishment of a Credit Supervisory Board, with the task of overseeing the whole matter, without interfering with the prerogatives of the other bodies in charge. But if we have a parliamentary committee that monitors the tax registry, I believe that, even more so, similar attention should be paid to such a behavioral sector, in order to protect the savings of Italian families that represent the great resource of our country. For all the reasons described so far, the ALA-SCLP Group cannot fail to vote against the measure in our examination. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u35	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, in order to close the Monte dei Paschi game, held by the Renzi Government until the referendum on 4 December last, fabulating, as we all remember, of salvific agreements for an increase of capital "market" made - as we all remember - with the Qatari Fund, the Atlas Funds 1 and 2 (which, moreover, so much private are not) and other alleged private investors, in the end - as we all already knew - it took the money of the Italians. Without the money of the Italians, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena game would never have closed, despite the announcements of the former President of the Council, which - as we all remember - invited, indeed advocated, savers and investors to buy shares of what was already a technically failed bank. In fact, that private intervention has miserably failed. Apart from the obvious inadequacy of Atlante 1 and 2, who would have to commit substantial resources to an operation that is far from "good," as the former Premier said instead? That failure was finally sanctioned by the ECB that, by denying the twenty-day extension to close the windy increase in "market" capital, it highlighted how that money, for allowing the bank to stand, were not there and were to be found. This failure raises the real question: whose responsibility is it? And what has led to the current situation of Monte dei Paschi, which can only be defined as a serious systemic risk? Other than the minimization with which the Renzi Government expressed itself first and the current Executive then. How can we minimize what happened in that bank again? There were broad responsibilities of the institutions, which should not have hidden the truth under the carpet and which should have prevented the European Central Bank from telling our country that for the rescue of Monte dei Paschi another EUR 4 billion was needed; responsibility of the Renzi Government and the political forces that supported and encouraged it in procrastinating appropriate interventions, the same ones that today support the current Executive. It is no coincidence that this decree-law was adopted only after the oxen came out of the stable. But that stable and those oxen all come from a territory and a geographical and cultural area where the responsibilities of the Democratic Party are many and important. And it is necessary that the truth be told to the full by the Italians. It is necessary that the responsibilities, vast and intertwined, be established. It is necessary that the citizens save, since they put their money on it, know with "who" and for "how much" Mount of Paschi is exposed (for billions and billions of euros). This activity must belong to Parliament, of course, within the limits and scope of parliamentary action and the representation of citizens, which must not be confused with other actions and with other mandates, such as that of the judiciary. And certainly within the limits and scope of a serious parliamentary activity there is knowledge, through a Commission of inquiry, that it appreciates everything there is to be ascertained about errors, delays, shortcomings in vigilance and intertwines of interests, but also about issues so to speak technical, that then so technical or only technical are not. Like those who took advantage (and how) of the sudden increase, on closed market, of the securities of other banks in difficulty, such as Carige or the People's Bank of Vicenza in conjunction with the decision of the Government to pay out twenty billion. This, however, constituted the precedent for which, in our country, some savers and some shareholders are of series A, while others are of series B. They seem only technical issues, but they have distinguished Italian savers in those of Monte dei Paschi on the one hand, protected as far as possible, and in Venetian savers on the other hand, very little protected by an initiative that, with the excuse of technical questions, has made their portfolio empty, without being covered by an intervention such as that on Monte dei Paschi, which instead will rightly protect those savers. The question of so-called suffering (non-performing loans) is certainly not confined to Monte dei Paschi. For a long time suffering and bad loans of the entire banking system have reached and exceeded the level of guard; an exodus that would have required different and timely interventions. This did not happen, perhaps because it was expected that the public parachute should be opened only for the Mount of the Paschi of Siena; money of the community that, in continuity with the previous one, this Government uses with an instrument, like this decree-law, rather abnormal. Anomalous in form, because, as has been known in recent hours, the European Commission was in no way informed and had not shared this kind of intervention. Anomalo in the process of conversion: this provision had already been incardinated in the House, then suddenly it was withdrawn and brought to the Senate, where, of course, the numbers did not make hope for an easy approval, exposing the country to a great risk in risk, but preferring to free the House for the interests of a political system, led by the Democratic Party, which for an electoral law would sell anything, even the rescue of savers. Once again, the interest of a party, the interest of a politician, the elections, the electoral law, everything that the political system needs to safeguard itself, exposes to a deadly risk the country system and all Italians. The measure is anomalous in substance, because a significant part is missing. Despite the title, this decree-law does not implement or guarantee compliance with Article 47 of the Constitution, which should instead be the guide of the provision. I thank Giulio Tremonti, who this morning has expressly and authoritatively dealt with this aspect which is far from marginal in the debate, since the task of the Republic - and therefore of this Parliament - is to promote and protect savings. From this point of view, the measure, in fact, seems unreasonable to us because, with reference to other interventions, it states that - and I still borrow the effective words of Senator Tremonti - some savers are subordinate and others are less so. The decree-law that we are discussing constitutes a public crutch for the Monte dei Paschi. In essence, we are faced with a nationalisation intervention, through the institutionalisation of a fund of EUR 20 billion, already approved by Parliament, with the aim of avoiding the adoption of measures such as bail in. I would like to point out, however, that, in the presence of serious and widespread responsibilities, the bail in would not be triggered: the creditor cannot be penalized, after being also cheated. The resources earmarked for the rescue seem to agree with everyone. In fact, they serve as a forceful conversion of bonds; they are used, that is, by the Ministry of Economy to subscribe to new shares and to take over those that will be given in exchange to small subordinated bondholders, who will, however, be paid by ordinary bonds. The aim is to safeguard retail savers who would be able to recover the entire sum. Here are very technical issues, but then they become of substance also political. So, more or less, there are so many potential winners in this game. The only real loser is the Italian State. It is certainly taxpayers who bear the costs of ensuring financial stability. A sort of burden sharing - as the European directive defines it - on the contrary: we are the ones who are cheated and penalized, but also those who have to guarantee those same scams. From this point of view, there is a legitimate concern, expressed by several parties, in which there is a possible discrepancy between the text of the decree-law to safeguard investors and savers and that of the directive to which it intends to refer. In short, beyond the things to come, to date the only certain winners of this complex game played on several tables are the usual known: consultants, rating agencies, that financial system that - I conclude, Mr President - has profited from the little noble operations carried out by Monte dei Paschi di Siena. This grave state of affairs is based on the improcrastinable need to shed light on the real responsibilities. Meanwhile, by announcing my Group's vote against this measure, we immediately ask the truth, not only on the lists of names, not only on those who have real responsibilities, but on what action has been taken by our Government to prevent that in these thousand days of Renzi Government the only ones to win could have been the looters of our financial and banking system that, one after the other, has seen important pieces fall, thrown into the bread for speculation, those international investors who, thanks to some decree-laws, have been able to make a bite rich in the savings of Italians. Then the guarantee of the state would come, so always the money of the Italians. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u38	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, as is well known, the objective of this decree-law is to preserve the financial stability of the Italian banking system by acting as a guarantee of the liabilities of credit institutions, in compliance with the Community guidelines on State aid; this respect has been recognised by the European Commission. The access of banks to the State guarantee should not be understood as a measure limited to intervention in contingent emergencies, with a liquidity injection that is not related to structural objectives. The condition for benefiting from the benefits is that medium- to long-term financing capacity and the capital requirements of credit institutions can be restored. In other words, the intervention by the State must be appropriate, in financial terms, to the size of the credit institution concerned and its levels of capitalisation. The guarantees from the banks must be real and a positive path in this direction has already been partly started, if we think of the value of the provisions that are already today equal to 60% of the 210 billion euros of gross suffering that represent the real crux. This is one of the discriminatory points which also implies the necessary positive opinion of the national and European competent authorities on the existence of the conditions laid down for granting the guarantee. There are no rainy interventions, because the old logic of the past is not re-proposed to protect more of the credit institution than of savers and businesses. What we have learned in Italy and internationally is that every single crisis has more and more immediate connections with the banking system as a whole and that governing the transition to adequate financial and capital conditions is the first objective for the protection of savers. There is a principle of responsibility that must be protected and appreciated. We have also understood how in the face of the banking crisis the main way is to limit the trading activities of banks, thus the purchase and sale of financial products, and instead to focus on the support of companies. Such a vision requires active policies, not only in a national dimension, but in the first place in Europe. In this context it is essential to recognise the fundamental relationship that exists with the territory, as in the case of cooperative credit banks (BCCs), whose reform we have discussed and approved, with outcomes and requirements that as a whole we can define as satisfactory. In relation to the BCCs established in the Autonomous Provinces, we have requested a flexible application of the exclusive operating criterion in the same Provinces, as required by the 2016 reform. With the adoption of our amendment we will avoid the closure of two doors for decades operating in the neighbouring provinces, in areas not otherwise served, such as in the locality of Arabba, in the Province of Belluno. This measure will strengthen not only the Raiffeisen banks interested in maintaining these branches, but also the autonomous banking group in Bolzano, which is in the process of being set up. I repeat that there is no intention of opening further doors in the neighbouring Provinces; it is only a matter of maintaining an existing service for the mountain population. We thank the undersecretary Baretta and the president rapporteur Marino for the great sensitivity shown towards our territory. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies will vote in favour of the government's trust. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote against the conversion of this decree-law, and not only because, as usual, trust has been placed, but precisely because of its content. Why this hostility of ours? For our part, the need for state intervention in the banking sector, for banks in crisis, has never been called into question; indeed, we have always denounced, even in the discussions that took place in the Senate on the constitutional conditions and on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry, the total inertia of the Government and the late enactment of the decree-law. And, therefore, the need for a decree-law, for an intervention, has never been questioned at all, but on the contrary, we have always argued that it should be done much earlier. We were faced with a fact on which perhaps the Commission of Inquiry could clarify. The Renzi Government, continuing to give, moreover, in a repeated way - I am also thinking of the statements of Minister Padoan - continuous assurances on the soundness of the banking system and on the non-necessity of an intervention, refused in fact to intervene promptly. Now, this rejection has weighed and still weighs like a boulder today and remains one of the heavy legacy of the inability of the past government - in some way inherited also from the current government - to intervene in time and to make sure to avoid further problems. Among other things, prompt action by the State would almost with certainty have avoided such a high exposure, because probably the resources needed would have been absolutely lower than the 20 billion that were then forced to put in place to support the intervention itself. So if the state had intervened at least six months ago, we would have had a dry savings for the state's coffers and, therefore, for the pockets of the Italian taxpayers. Not only that: when a bank goes into crisis, it faces a certain destiny that makes it exponentially more difficult and expensive to save because, above all, it completely impoverishes confidence and, therefore, the ability to hold back capital. I would just like to point out that, only in recent weeks, at least EUR 12 billion of liquidity appears to have come out of MPS - to understand us - and therefore the time, in this case, was an absolutely crucial variable. Now, by entering into the substance of the decree-law under consideration, we reiterate that the point is not what we have always hoped for, namely a nationalization intervention, but under what conditions and to do what. We have tried, with the amendments proposed in the Commission and, indeed, with a number of points included in the motion submitted to the House by the Italian Left, to introduce within the decree-law a series of amendments - in our opinion - absolutely fundamental in order to make those necessary improvements precisely in the area - I would like to remind you here - of greater protection of savers, small debtors for loans for the purchase - for example - of the first house and guaranteeing the full employment of the employees of credit institutions involved in bank bailouts. I am also referring to the proposals for greater transparency on the exposures of banks saved to large insolvent debtors; to the sure and adequate sanctions for the managers who led the banks to such a serious outcome and the introduction of paths not only training, but also real financial information. I am also talking about the proposals to introduce into the banking system the principle of separation between commercial banks and business banks, as well as preferential measures for associated municipalities in municipalities for the restructuring of the debt of local authorities, which is an element, certainly not secondary, especially because of the impact it has on the lives of local communities. Along this line, improvements have been made to the measure, but a number of issues remain open, which we consider to be absolutely crucial, starting with the question of transparency. Once again, the majority has made a clear choice, which is not to make public the names of the big debtors, as we - but not only - asked for both in the Commission and in this House. And this element of opacity is serious. We ask for names to be made known - I am referring to the famous black list - because we have a voyeuristic spirit or a justiceist? No: we ask it because it is a fundamental act in the public interest, in order to make evident who are the subjects that created the problems, as well as the political interweavings and conveniences, also to understand the recent history of the country. It is clear to everyone what the political and financial interweavings that have led to today's situation have been. A debt or credit ratio is first and foremost a power relationship and it is essential that, when a bank receives a rescue with public resources - and taxpayers' money - the plot of power that has led to its failure is rebuilt. The issue concerns not only the inability of managers, but also the interweaving of power. On the other hand, the measure has chosen the path, not of transparency, but of opacity. I hope that we will come to the formation of the Commission of Inquiry and that at least it can intervene to dissolve the total opacity. I shall then turn to another absolutely fundamental issue. As has also been the case today, we continue to give wrong information to our citizens about the protection of savings and savers, which is one of the key issues that the measure should have dealt with. Of course, the Commission has extended the scope of those who are entitled to the lump-sum reimbursements provided for bondholders who have been reset by the notes four banks, but the wording that has actually been chosen continues to present a number of ambiguities, partly because it risks excluding a number of cases. I am thinking, for example, of the case involving the spouses or the separation of the files contained in them, which are likely to be completely excluded. So, there is also a risk of giving rise to an evident injustice. The text approved by the Commission, on which trust has been placed, refers only to the transfer by act between living persons (i.e. donation) involving the spouse, instead excluding the most frequent cases of the division of files and the division of assets following divorce. As you can see, we are continuing with an approach which is certainly not a broad protection of savings. I would also like to address another issue. We did not question the state's intervention, because that is what we have always wanted. The problem is the conditions under which it takes place. If there had been a desire to pursue unfaithful managers - the issue of the ceiling of salaries is also another matter, in our opinion, absolutely bland - to safeguard employment, to appoint renewed summits and to give them a mission of public interest, that is to say the relaunch of the provision of credit to families and businesses, then we would have agreed. Italy, in fact, needs a large public bank that supports industrial policy and the revival of the economy, starting from the investments necessary - for example - for the ecological conversion of the economy. But if everything goes in continuity with the past and the entry of public capital is interpreted only as a bridge from a past that we know of to a future that looks similar, with managers engaged to heal the accounts on the shoulders of workers and customers in order to arrive as soon as possible to the privatization of the assets, then we are not really there. Our impression is that, after public intervention, we want to pursue this path. For all these reasons, we will not give confidence and we will vote firmly against this decree-law. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u44	MARINO Luigi (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, those responsible for the failures and bad management of banks, such as companies, must be punished and, if possible, severely punished. However, this issue is not about today's vote. Today's vote is not even about a hypothetical reversal of trend. After years of privatisation of the banking system, we could actually start a new era of nationalisation today. That is not today's vote. Today's vote does not mean that, always and in any case, savers and investors are placed on the same level and that, always and in any case, they are refreshed with taxpayers' money. Today's vote is about trust, not to the government, but in saving as a public good. The decree-law of the Government, improved by the work of the Commission, which had an attentive, competent, comprehensive and available rapporteur president and the participation of the undersecretary Baretta, who followed his examination in the Commission, protects the stability of the Italian banking system? Does it protect savings? Do you earnestly and rigorously commit public money? The answer of the People's Area Group to these crucial questions is basically positive. Consequently, our vote will be strongly in favour of the measure and, therefore, also the Government. In the political and media debate on banks in Italy has made every grass a bundle. He threw himself a lot of masochistic discredit on the Italian banking system. We do not defend all banks, just as we do not defend all businesses or all people. We are, however, deeply convinced that, without an efficient and productive industrial apparatus accompanied by a robust banking system, the economy of our country will not be able to generate wealth and will not be able to recover. And without recovery and without wealth, there can still be redistribution. As we believe that economic democracy is strengthened by a fabric of small, medium and large enterprises, so we believe that large banks are needed, alongside efficient and robust local banks, precisely because they are integrated. That is why we have approved the reform of popular banks and then the reform of cooperative credit banks. I understand, but of course I do not share, the catastrophic reasons - indeed, apocalyptic - of those who this morning, in this House, have ironized on the scorn - so it has been defined by the Minister of Economy and Finance - of the spread of more than 200 points and, at the same time, does not remember "the beam in his eye" when in November 2011 the spread was 574 points compared to the Bundesbond. This time, moreover, Italy is not only the focus of attention on the spread. I understand, but certainly I do not agree, the noble reasons of those who immediately agreed with the decree-law in question, except then see today the Group of which it is President to vote for the unconstitutionality of the measure. I understand that those who have in their program the happy decrease, that I do not share, come to think of the bank as a resale of salts and tobacco and come to the conclusion that the Italian banks have vampired the economy of the country and that this banking system is rotten. We are not: we are on the other side and say that the Italian banking system, with all its defects, is certainly not among the worst in the world and, indeed, is perhaps among the best. Someone has been practicing, again this morning in this House, in demanding a split between commercial banks and finance banks. Italian banks are mainly commercial banks and this is demonstrated by the data. Employment on the assets of Italian banks is 10 points higher than the European average and, above all, structured finance activities are significantly below the European average. Only on derivatives do Italian banks have a 6% share, against a European average of around 15%. The problems of Italian banking intermediaries, therefore, arise not from finance, but from the financing of the real economy. Let's look at the ancient and recent history of our country. If Italy is still an industrial country, if Italy has grown so much to become and remain the second manufacturing power in Europe - as we often remember - it also owes it to the way in which credit has been paid in our country. If 80 percent of Italian families have the house on the property [[Comments of Senator Airola]] , this is also due to the financing provided by banks. On the other hand, the growth of loans deteriorated over the decade, which eroded the banks' assets and undermined their profitability, is a sign of the strong Italian bond between banks and the real economy. When GDP lost 10 points in a decade of crisis and Italian industrial production fell by 25% - virtually one in four companies closed - many debtors were unable to repay loans. With good reason, it can be said that the financial crisis of American banks has moved to the real European and Italian economy and from the real European economy has reverberated on Italian banks. Yet, out of 563 Italian banks, the cases of crisis - rather small, given the premises - are about ten. I say this to those who claim there is a contradiction on the part of the Government, who would talk about a system that he cares about but to which he then brings - as we have done in recent months - 20 billion resources. That's not a contradiction. We assume that the difficulties of a bank intermediary move rapidly on the system as a whole and, therefore, we allow the Government to support liquidity with instruments and guarantees and to proceed with the prudential recapitalisation, precisely to make that institution solvent, but putting the whole system in protection. And so all this: support for liquidity, recapitalisation, interventions on the four banks in resolution have the sole objective of protecting the stability of the system, i.e. strengthening confidence in the system. It has been said that trust is a public good, that it is easy to destroy it but very difficult to rebuild it. And confidence is strengthened by interventions of this nature, protecting savers who have taken risks unknowingly and creating conditions for the revival and sustainability of banking companies. As the rapporteur pointed out at the beginning of our debate, it was appropriate to include the subject of financial education. It is never too late, even though retail investors have already realized that an era is over and we are in a transitional season, in the sense that we are moving from the infallible bank to the bank that can fail, and therefore we need to educate ourselves about risk savings and, of course, more tight controls on banks. To us, therefore, the decree-law in question appears to be a right thing, an opportune thing, a necessary thing in favour of a system that, compared to those of the other major Western countries, has enjoyed reduced interventions by the State. But, for this very reason, we consider it essential today that the measure be approved and that this be done with the broadest consent of the Senate. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI) and Senator Fornaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u47	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, apart from the falsehoods that I have heard in this House by the majority on how the crisis is born, I hope that it will return to contact with the outside world sooner or later, because the last speech seems to me rather distant from what is happening in Italy. Let us return, however, to the decree-law under consideration. A long time ago this majority asked for EUR 20 billion in this House, and we asked how it wants to spend it. It seems to us to be the least: we are Parliament, we are the ones who approve the law of stability and those who define, point by point, how to spend the money of the Italians. No one answered us, and then we waited for the decree-law, with the hope that it would be clearer. Nothing to do. Even in the decree-law it is in no way clarified or specified how the 20 billion will be spent. According to Article 24, it seemed that the 20 billion had to cover both the share of capitalization, i.e. the purchase of the shares of the banks, and the guarantees; and, instead, we find that this is not the case. We do not understand how many guarantees we can give and how many we will buy. We throw 20 billion in the street and watch what happens. The first one to come gets it. For now, Monte dei Paschi has taken them, with the guarantee, on an issue of seven billion. Now, I would like to remind you that this measure is still linked to banking communication, that is to say, to the communication that comes to us from the European Commission, in which some of the ways in which the BRRD comes from are laid down. And I want to read paragraph 47 of this communication, where it is established that they do not have to buy hybrid capital instruments back unless such a measure, possibly in combination with others, allows the credit institution to fully absorb its capital shortfall. In this regard, I refer to what I have tried to explain this morning. The lack of capital in the Monte dei Paschi - and I am sorry to take only the Monte dei Paschi as an example - will change when they sell - it is when the European Commission asked them - or rather sell off the NPL credits, i.e. stranded credits. There will in any case be a lack of capital that we will go to repay and guarantee. Some economists have already raised the question of paragraph 47 of banking communication, i.e. whether it was correct for the Monte dei Paschi to buy back the issued bonds or not. But now we know very well that we must wait, because justice occasionally does justice and your provisions are usually rejected. And, therefore, we expect a rejection on this too. But let's get back to the NPL credits. They result from non-payment of a credit to the bank. There are, however, two issues, the first of which is the inability of the debtor to pay. It is logical: there is a crisis in Italy and Europe and, if I cannot pay, there is an excuse. And you have long ago made a measure in which you have established procedures for carrying out the guarantee in a much more stringent way, always to the detriment of the citizens, for whom there is an immediate debate, having cut the time and everything else. For other debtors of banks, however, no one does the debate procedures, because they are the big takers, i.e. the big debtors of the banks. There is a lot of talk in the newspapers about the fact that you have to name names - and someone has done them - but we haven't foreseen it in the law. In the law it has been established, with a play of words, that there will be a report in which the information relating to the risk profile and credit quality of the entities to which the issuer has credit is indicated. In essence, we will never know who took the money or who gave it - the blame is also of the person who gave it - and we know very well that the big debtors are called "big" because they have huge exposures. Therefore, the fault is not of the poor citizens who are in crisis and have been fired (this also happens). And even in the restructuring plan of the Monte dei Paschi there will be redundancies, but we do the marchetta to Zeller not to close two bank branches. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There's a landmark here. Speaking of Marchetta, I would like to remind the Vice President of the 6th Commission, Senator Longo, that in the Commission he voted for the Marchetta signed by Senator Turano, who fortunately President Grasso declared inadmissible. Therefore, it should remain silent, just as it should be silent about the meeting with Senator Zanda in which it was planned to give the Presidency of the Committee of Inquiry into Banks to an AL-A Group member, of which Senator Verdini is a member, who has been sent back to trial for fraudulent bankruptcy, misappropriation and fraud for the failure of the Florentine cooperative credit bank. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So what are we talking about? Are you kidding me? You have asked citizens for 20 billion money and you still do not know at all what the recipe is to raise the Italian banking system. We have tabled amendments. In one, we proposed to include some useful information in the supplementary notes for those investors who want to invest in banks, but failed. We then asked for a limitation of the remuneration and the replacement of the administrators: if I put public money in a bank in crisis, at least I think the administrators are not able and, therefore, I place the constraint. And instead, we did not want to put the constraint because we are afraid of the market. So I have an idea: why are we making a measure that allocates EUR 20 billion without determining where they are going, when another bank is demanding a capital increase of EUR 13 billion? Maybe we're talking about the Mount of the Paschi. But there is also another problem: since in these four years the government and the majority have not been able to manage the banking crisis, it is feared that these 13 billion will not come from investors and, therefore, it is always trying to cover and move the topic. I have a thousand other things to say about this measure. If you read it carefully, you understand that the majority are unable to manage the country and are unable in any way to raise the banking system. We must, of course, make the banking separation which is the first fundamental point in restoring confidence in the Italian banking system. We, as the 5 Star Movement, absolutely do not want to give the trust to this majority and to the friends of the club and the ball who go to play golf. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u50	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 December, Parliament closed its proceedings by voting by a large majority on a resolution authorising the Government to issue public debt securities, up to a maximum of EUR 20 billion for 2017, for the possible adoption of measures to ensure the country's economic and financial stability, the strengthening of the banking system's assets and the protection of savings. As you are well aware, the eventual deed has immediately become certain and the resolution has become a decree-law, which represents yet another late and clumsy attempt to help the Italian banking system. It is late because it has constantly wanted to deny the obvious state of failure of MPS, and I wouldn't want to insult remembering what the then President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, proclaimed on January 2, 2016 on "Il Sole 24 ORE" about the Monte dei Paschi di Siena: Today the Bank is healed and investing is a business. Since that January 2, the MPS title has lost more than 80 percent of its value. It is clumsy, this attempt, because, rather than addressing in its complexity the causes of the difficulties of the entire credit system, which needed effective and strategic actions, it has limited itself to desperate interventions to save this or that institution, to reward, very partially, those in those banks had believed and invested. And I cannot help pointing out that there is a clear difference in treatment between small MPS savers, who will be fully reimbursed, and those of other banks, such as the People's Etruria, who received little more than an almsgiving through the road of flat-rate reimbursement. The decree-law, then, clarifies in some way how the Government intends to resolve the issue of the recapitalisation of MPS, but nothing says on how the State, which becomes the main shareholder, intends to operate in order to really restore the bank; a State-shareholder who assumes a great responsibility towards the country and that, therefore, it would have the absolute imperative to clarify and indicate its own strategy, assuming that it has one. We have a duty to ask ourselves whether we are facing a new state of the banking system after the large privatisations in 1994, or, much more trivially, whether we are witnessing a transformation of a local party bank into a national government bank. These doubts can only be answered with total transparency: the Treasury today has more than ever the power and the duty to direct the choices of the bank, even at the level - for example - of appointments, and to ensure that Parliament is aware of them, in order to ensure that every intervention really responds to the interest of the country, and not only to that of a political party. Despite these doubts, from force yes of opposition, but which has as its first interest not the political polemic but the good of the country and of the savers who invested in these banks, Forza Italia considered, last December, to have to give its vote in favor of the approval of the report that authorized a new debt for the stabilization of MPS and of the whole banking system. The alternatives at that time would have been dramatic. But we have set three serious and responsible conditions, which we have defined as indispensable for us. The first is that the Minister comes to Parliament to report whenever funds are to be allocated to operations in support of the banking system. And it is not even remotely conceivable that, once again, the government feels that it is using public money, the money of our citizens, as you think best, without realizing it to anyone. The second condition is that a limit should be set to the bonuses and ancillary benefits provided for the managers of banks supported by the State: those who have mismanaged cannot be rewarded at the expense of savers, even more so at a time when millions of Italian citizens are barely able to reach the end of the month. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Finally - and this is the most important request, even from a symbolic point of view, that we have made - we have asked that the names of the hundred most important insolvent debtors be made public. It was our request - as I said before - more important and with a deep meaning. In fact, it did not respond only to a general, albeit sacred, need for justice and transparency. Even more, he recognized the right of the new majority shareholder, the Italian people, through the Italian State, to know the name and surname of those who, in contempt of the pacts and obligations, had contributed to create the conditions for which every citizen is today called to participate in the rescue of MPS; of those who, thanks to their name, the strength of their companies, and perhaps even the proximity to politics, had managed to obtain huge credits, not to return them either: a mockery and damage to free competition, for all those who, citizens and businesses, live on their own skin the difficulty of accessing credit. These are essential proposals - as I said - which are essential conditions for improving the measure, for making it more credible and fairer. For this reason, the members of Forza Italia in the Finance Committee - I take this opportunity to thank them - have chosen to table a few selected amendments, precisely to signify the seriousness and reasonableness of our work, available for any discussion and deepening. On the other hand, we have received only unsatisfactory responses from the Government and majority to all our requests, and our amendments in the Commission, although apparently open to the contributions of the opposition, have been rejected in almost total terms. It is clear that government and majority do not want those names to be made public, although many have spoken in favour, including the president of the ABI, Antonio Patuelli, and that even the privacy guarantor, Antonello Soro, has stated that there were no findings from the protection of sensitive data in the case of publication of the names of the debtor companies. It is also clear that Parliament's interference is poorly endured, since the text provides for Parliament to simply take note, once every four months, of the possible use of public debt for new rescue and support operations. I would like to take up the words that Minister Padoan gave during the hearing on 12 January. Padoan said: "Confidence is a public good, characterized by a clear asymmetry: it is very easy to destroy it, it is very difficult to rebuild it." It's true. And I ask you: how is it possible to rebuild the trust between institutions and citizens, when you, the majority and the government, first consider Parliament a nuisance to do without? We had frankly hoped that this measure could be transformed into a fairer law in this House, through those fundamental corrections I have just mentioned, but it was a vain hope. The government has put the question of trust and in this House, as has already happened too many times, there will be no debate, no vote on our amendments, no willingness to discuss them. But why, precisely on the banking system, so crucial and crucial for the well-being and development of our country, do you reject the comparison? All we have to do is vote firmly against the demand for trust and continue to fight for the rights of small savers and small and medium-sized Italian companies to be defended at all times. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u53	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, first of all I would like to thank President Marino for his serious and rigorous work, in agreement with the Government, with the majority and also with part of the opposition, which has made it possible to improve the content of one of the most important measures of the legislature. As both President Mattarella and Minister Padoan have said, trust is a public good. This is an essential factor in the functioning of the banking system. The economic crisis has hit families and businesses heavily, also highlighting very serious shortcomings in parts of the banking system, cases of inadequate management and sometimes possible illegal behaviour. For these, we hope that justice will take its course quickly and that all those who have caused damage to the community, local communities and savers will be properly sanctioned. But what is the role of the State in dealing with these situations? Does this measure come late? Does it create disparities between banks and banks? These are all legitimate questions, but I do not share the answers I have heard today. In fact, there are objective data in support of my statement. The state must avoid systemic or contagion effects of the crisis, protect financial stability and savers, from the most anticipated to those who have taken higher risks (more or less consciously), create fertile ground for financing the real economy through development policies, but without public dirigism and invasiveness. The State must take action taking into account a European regulatory framework for banking union and state aid. I would remind myself that the European BRRD directive, which was adopted in November 2015, allowed some banks to be removed from the ordinary winding-up procedure, since they were already commissioners, with potential costs that would have amounted to 12 billion, with the interruption of all credit lines and the immediate request for return to the entrusted, the dismissal of employees and very serious systemic effects. A year later, for Monte dei Paschi di Siena (third Italian banking group, 2,600 branches, 25,000 employees, millions of accountants), which highlighted criticalities in the presence of stress tests under adverse conditions, the intervention of the State was chosen, after the failure of the desirable market solution, with systemic effects with clear implications to all of us, beyond the banal political polemic. These are matters which the Commission has been engaged in with the finances of our branch of Parliament for a long time, through two in-depth surveys of knowledge, from which evaluations, indications and proposals have emerged which may, if you like, constitute an important common basis. In fact, our objective must be to attack the main problem of the system. The crisis has damaged companies and families, impacting banks with growing insolvencies. This has triggered a spiral that has led to the high number of outstanding loans accumulated in the banking system's balance sheets over the past few years. This is a phenomenon that has particularly acute effects on us, and this has happened because the financing of business depends predominantly on banks. Italy is not even the country with the highest percentage of suffering compared to the total of appropriations entered in the budget. According to EBA, in fact, ten other European countries have more than 10% of non-performing loans in their portfolio, demonstrating the extreme fragility of the European system, particularly for the less virtuous countries in the South of Europe because of the weak economy. However, some positive signals come from the Bank of Italy, which indicates a decrease in the flows of loans deteriorated during 2016, returning to levels close to those pre-crisis. New suffering has also been reduced, which is reacting more lately to improvements in the economic situation. In particular, in terms of amounts, the rate of income in distress for non-financial corporations was 3,9 per cent in June 2016, a sharp fall compared to the previous year (4,4%) and to the peaks at the end of 2013 (4,8 per cent). (at 19.12 p.m.) (Following Rossi Gianluca). The task of institutions and politics is to lower the IQ of ideological confrontation, not to look at partisan interests, increasing responsibility for the benefit of national credibility, savers, businesses and families. In this context, the Decree-Law, improved by the Commission's work - and I regret that it has not been properly acknowledged in today's debate - gives concrete answers. We have strengthened Parliament's involvement in terms of confidentiality and transparency; we have addressed the issue of administrators' emoluments with alignment with the European level. The possible publication of the list of debtors - a very sensitive issue - is addressed in a serious way, without demagogy, giving priority to the risk profile and accepting an amendment by my colleague, Mr D'Ali, referring to 1% of net worth. The fundamental question of financial education finally finds concreteness also through an initial economic endowment. The new method of calculating refunds will protect us from dangerous distortions. As regards the banks in liquidation, important steps have been taken, such as the extension to 31 May of the time limits, for the savers of the four banks in resolution, to request reimbursement; the audience of the beneficiaries has been extended, also extending it to spouses and relatives of the bondholders up to the second degree of kinship. On this I ask the Government to make the legislation homogeneous with the recent law on civil unions, giving it an adequate interpretation. It was also decided to exclude the value of zero bonds from the 100,000 euro of assets. Finally, the banks were ordered to pay free of charge for all their investigation costs. Mr President, for all these good reasons, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote for the government and will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u54	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u55	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fazzone is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fazzone. SCOMA, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casinni, Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Fissori, Fornaigoni, Fornaaro, Fuletti, Fulenti, Fulenti, Guerni There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Blundo, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolicli, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagnone, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Pin, De Siano, Di Maggio, Divina Endrizzi Margizzi Falanga, Ferrara Mario, Floris Gaetti, Gaparri, Giarrusso, Giovanardi, Giovanardi, Giovanardi, Girotti, Girotto, Girotto, Giretti, De Iottolini, De Siano, Mario, Di Mario, Di Maggio, Di Maggio, Divolaro Lombardi Levoli PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900, entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 266 Senators voting 265 Majority 133 Favorable 157 Contrari 108]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 237 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u58	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak again in this House about schools and the Province of Caserta. On 17 January last I asked here, in the Chamber, for urgent intervention by the Government in order to face the absurd and paradoxical situation in which the schools of Caserta are in danger of being closed because the Province of Caserta, having declared the financial failure, does not even have a euro to guarantee light, gas, nor much less ordinary and extraordinary maintenance. Now, I do not want to make it a political issue here, reaffirming the fake abolition of the Provinces, which certainly did not involve savings or efficiency; but surely the responsibility of the Renzi Government in having started this fake reform cannot fall on the shoulders of students who have the right to study, on parents who want the guarantee of the safety of the schools, or even less it can fall on the institutions themselves, which certainly do not have the economic willingness to meet the costs of management and maintenance. The various meetings held in the Province were ignored, the student protests were ignored, the parliamentary acts presented were ignored. Well, yesterday I received a letter, as a casertana parliamentarians, from the President of the Province of Caserta. The object was: "Paralisi operativo della Provincia di Caserta" (Paralisi operativo della Provincia di Caserta). This letter was also addressed to the President of the Republic, the President of the Council, the Ministers of the Interior and the Economy and Finance, the local and regional administrative bodies and also the Police, the Prosecutor of the Republic and the schools. And I find it particularly serious. In this note, the President of the Province of Caserta has declared himself ready to deliver the keys of the institution to the prefect. As we are talking about a territory that has already been disadvantaged for many reasons, which I do not want to list now, I find this alarming gesture and the Government and this House cannot fail to take this into account. The boys, parents and the Province are crying out for help before it's too late. I have tabled an amendment to the multi-pronged measure, which is due to be discussed in this House, which I would ask to include in the exemption of the payment of the annual contribution those Provinces that declared the failure by 31 December 2015, but unfortunately this amendment has been given a negative opinion by the Budget Commission: who knows why 20 billion for banks are there and instead there are no resources for our schools. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. I would ask the Government to convene an urgent meeting with all the parties involved, even in the presence of us House parliamentarians, with the intention of finding a solution to this dramatic situation. The continuous uncertainty in which the Province of Caserta pours, the uncertainty of thousands of students, who do not know whether or not they will be able to end the school year, the unarmed expectation that a misfortune could happen for the yet another collapse of a ceiling in some school is not acceptable for a civil country. Just as it is not acceptable to ignore anything. Mr President, I trust in your sensitivity to alert the Government to the situation I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-758.ana.u60	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 9 February, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
