ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-02828, on delays and rising costs in the construction of the Asti-Cuneo motorway. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u4	Madam President, as far as the Directorate-General for the Supervision of Motorway Dealers reports, the time taken for ANAS to publish the call for tenders for the construction of the work is due to the significant revision of the design. In particular, the design solutions of lots II.5 and II.6 have been revised and the subsequent design levels of the remaining lots have been developed, as some were then only available at a preliminary level. After five months after the award of the tender, on 23 March 2006 the agreement for the design, construction and management of the work was signed between ANAS and Autostrada Asti-Cuneo. However, the procedure of the Convention was interrupted following Decree-Law No 262 of 3 October 2006, which amended the rules for concessionary relations through the introduction of the single convention, which was subsequently signed and became effective in February 2008, following the issue of the interministerial decree approving it and its subsequent registration to the Court of Auditors. Therefore, the Convention previously signed is that of 23 March 2006, also mentioned in the premises of the Convention of 2007, which has never been effective. With regard to the capital of the company Autostrada Asti-Cuneo, the same is equal to about 50 million fully paid: 35 percent from ANAS and the remaining part from the private partner. With regard to the dispute which was the subject of transaction with the 2007 Convention, the same concerned the appeal of the contract notice issued by ANAS for the construction of the Govone barrier, as the same works were included in the concession agreement signed by Autostrada Asti-Cuneo, as well as the notes with which ANAS had initiated the procedure for replacing the concession contract signed on 23 March 2006 with the new single agreement. With the subscription of the new convention, then, has also intervened the renunciation from the concessionary society to the pending litigation. As regards the increase in costs, ANAS - as grantor - approved the projects submitted by the concessionary company without approving the updating of the reference price lists, in order to avoid the increase of the total cost of the work. However, such measures have been the subject of appeals by the concessionaire against the grantor, who has always been unsuccessful. Following an appeal to the Council of State by the conceder, the State's General Notice considered that the conditions for its submission did not exist. To meet expenditure commitments, a public contribution of EUR 200 million was paid to the company at 31 December 2016 through ANAS and the remainder, amounting to EUR 319 million, through medium- and long-term financing lines. I remember that the company distributes 42 percent of the concession fee to ANAS, equal to 2.4 percent of the net revenue from tolls (pursuant to article 1, paragraph 1020, of law n. 296 of 2006), in addition to the management fee, equal to 2 percent of the net revenue from tolls (pursuant to article 12, paragraph 2, of the current convention). It should also be pointed out that for the company Autostrada Asti Cuneo - as a result of the complete redesign of the lots to be realized previewed from the current convention, of the time elapsed, of the normative changes in the meantime introduced and of the update of the reference prices the expenditure for investment originally previewed in the contest - has generated a situation of economic-financial imbalance, with the necessity to characterize alternative solutions in order to guarantee the completion of the work. On 20 February 2014, the concessionary company formally represented the aforementioned criticalities raised to causes of force majeure and represented as the only possible solution was the integration of the A33 route with the other interconnected routes managed by the SIAS group, which insist on the same director A4 and A21. In order to achieve a solution able to guarantee the completion of the infrastructure while at the same time allowing to save considerable financial resources, the company has assumed a partial realization of the work, which allows - in any case - the completion of the infrastructure; the total cost of the investment is estimated at approximately 1.3 billion euros. The hypothesis also provides that the investments are not realized, considered as non-essential from the transport point of view - in particular, this concerns the lots 2.1 dir, 2.1b, 2.5 and 1.6 and of the toll booths of the trunk 2 - and also the functional adaptation of the ring road of Asti (ex lot 2.1b) and the ring road of Alba (ex lot 2.5) and the implementation of the system of exaction of the tolls of the torso 2 through a free flow type system. In August 2014, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport forwarded to the European Commission a plan to reorganise the motorway network through an integration of the concessions belonging to the SIAS Group, of which the Autostrada Asti-Cuneo dealership is part. In September 2014 Decree-Law No 133 was issued, whose Article 5 provided for the possibility of forwarding to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport changes of the concessionary relationship in place aimed at updating or auditing procedures also through the unification of interconnected, contiguous or complementary routes, for the purposes of their unitary management. On 31 December 2014 and in accordance with the above-mentioned Article 5, the companies participating in the SIAS group submitted a new plan for corporate aggregation. This request, in its contents, was in accordance with the proposal submitted by the Italian Government in August 2014. To date, the integration project has not had any further course and the repeal of Article 5 has also taken place following the new procurement code. In 2015, further corporate aggregation projects were evaluated to find the financial needs necessary for the implementation of the Asti-Cuneo. Following the proposed hypothesis of revising the project of the work with a significant reduction in expenditure, further assumptions of corporate aggregation have been formulated that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has brought to the knowledge of the European Commission in June 2016. Verifications are being carried out to verify the compatibility of the new solution with Community legislation. This last operational hypothesis, which provides for the amalgamation of the sections A33 (Asti-Cuneo), A21 (Turin-Piacenza) and A4 (Turin-Milan), is the subject of evaluation at Community level. Finally, with regard to the design framework of lot 2.6 (Roddi-Diga ENEL), a project review is under way, which consists in evaluating the possibility of creating the work not in the gallery anymore, but in the open air.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u7	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am partially satisfied with the information received, because there are some answers missing. I had asked, in fact, if it corresponds to the truth that the works for the gallery of Verduno are stopped because of the Ministry - as the private partner of the concessionary company says - and this has not been answered. However, from the many information that has been provided, and for which I personally thank the Secretary, there are some disturbing facts. First of all, the Undersecretary confirmed that 50 million share capital was paid out, 65% of which was 37.5 million by the private partner. However, I understand that the private partner won the race, beating two opponents - it was not one of those races, unfortunately not infrequent, with only one participant on the basis of the payment - not of 37.5 million, but of 130 million. Why was it accepted that the private partner, instead of 130 million, would pay 37.5 million? Perhaps in this way, by decreasing the entire share capital, the sanction consisting of the obligation of the private shareholder to buy back to a substantially doubled value of the share of the public shareholder also decreased? So has there been an additional 75% discount on the private partner? It cannot be done in response, but at this point I must ask why it was accepted in the presence of a ban, also because perhaps those conditions would have been accepted by others too. Instead, they win by committing to pay 130 million and then pay 37.5 million, and that's okay. This is disconcerting. Another disconcerting point, for which I thank the Undersecretary for the content, is that it is clear that, before even making the notorious decree unblocks Italy, the Government had already submitted on its behalf to the European Union a proposal of amalgamation that - as it happens - coincided with the letter with what requested by the concessionaire, which is a private and has already received gifts of all sorts from the public, starting from having been able to participate in the race despite the previous decade had demonstrated the total inadequacy to complete the same infrastructure and, that is, the Asti-Cuneo motorway. One last thing that I would like to point out with some surprise is that the Government continues to propose extensions of concessions. I would point out that Article 178 of the Procurement Code says even more clearly than it was before the extension of motorway concessions was prohibited. Extensions on all other concessions are also prohibited, but here it is specifically stated that extensions of motorway concessions are prohibited. The Government, however, continues to work on extensions, because the understanding of which we speak is nothing more than a re-edition of what is proposed in the so-called Italy unblocking of September 2014, when it was granted to some subjects, in particular to this subject, the ability to pool the concessions in some way interconnected, equaling the date of expiration of the concession to the furthest one: in other words, an extension that more extension is not possible. Then, the fact that the Government acts against a legislative decree, for which it itself is the delegated legislator, is truly paradoxical and I also suspect that, going against the law, it is even sanctionable. However, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for providing me with interesting news. I regret for some detail that is missing, but there is ample matter to show that the Government is promoting the violation of a law that has just been passed and drafted by it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-02925, on the extension of the motorway concessions and on the realization of the eaves of Genoa. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u9	Madam President, with regard to the content of the conventions and related additional acts on the subject, the Directorate-General for the Supervision of Motorway Dealers reports that the single agreement concluded on 12 October 2007 between ANAS (at the time granting body) and Autostrade for Italy is a reconnaissance of the commitments provided for in previous conventional acts. In particular, with regard to investments, those contained in the 1997 Convention and those requested by the Government in 2002 were confirmed and included in the IV Additional Act (mainly the enlargement of the Adriatic and the Genoa node). Further noise recovery measures have been planned in comparison with those already provided for in the previous Convention. In addition, the single agreement provided for the undertaking of the concessionaire to develop the design of certain operations to upgrade the motorway network, which could be included in the agreement at the outcome of the approval procedures at the request of the concessionaire and after conclusion of an additional act, with remuneration for the related investments through the tariff component K, referred to in CIPE Resolution 39 of 2007. The Single Convention was then sent to the competent offices of the European Commission. In this respect, I recall that following the reform of the motorway concessions introduced by Decree-Law No 262 of 2006, the European Commission had opened an infringement procedure against the Italian State for having unilaterally amended the existing contracts in breach of the principle of legal certainty. In the meantime, the Single Convention was approved by Law No 101 of 2008 in the context of urgent provisions for the implementation of Community obligations. Following the communication of the intervention of the Single Convention sent by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to the European Union, the latter closed the infringement procedure in October 2008. With the additional act signed on 24 December 2013 between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - in the meantime succeeded ANAS in the role of grantor since 1 October 2012 - and Autostrade for Italy has proceeded to carry out, in accordance with the provisions of the single convention, the five-year update of the financial plan. Since, as has already been said, a reconnaissance convention, with the updating of the financial plan, the forecast values of the plan have been updated, without proceeding - as is the case with the rebalancing conventions regulated by the 2007 CIPE 39 and 2013 Decisions - the rebalancing of the financial plan and the consequent re-determination of tariff levels. With regard to the timing of the approval of that additional act, the Single Convention provides that the five-year update of the financial plan should be carried out by the concessionaire by 30 September of the year of expiry of each five-year plan. Therefore, in view of the expiry of the first five-year plan 2008-2012, from the end of March 2012 the interlocations between the concessionaire and the concessionaire were started to define the updated values to be included in the plan. On the following 28 September the concessionaire then submitted the proposal for an update. Further interlocutions and meetings with the grantor were then followed with the aim of concluding the iter's inquiry by the same. Meanwhile, CIPE Resolution No. 27 of 2013, which deferred the deadline for the five-year update of the financial plan to 30 June of the first year of the next regulatory period, has intervened. The additional act by which the update of the financial plan was formalised was therefore definitively signed on 24 December 2013. As an additional act, which did not involve changes or modifications to the investment plan, or to regulatory aspects, the same was approved, pursuant to Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, by interministerial decree Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport-Ministry of Economy and Finance on 31 December 2013. As for the eaves of Genoa, I confirm that the same is part of the interventions that, at the request of the Government, were inserted in the IV additional act stipulated between the conceder and Autostrade for Italy since 2002. In the 2007 Single Convention, this intervention was confirmed - like the others included in the previous Convention and additional acts - among the investment commitments of the concessionaire. Finally, in the case of extension, any extension of the concession will be taken into account only in order to avoid substantial increases in tariffs for users and to implement an important investment plan. This will then have to be improved by maintaining the financial invariance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u12	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Secretary, from the point of view of content I am very pleased with this answer, because it was complete with respect to what was requested, but from it there are facts even more disconcerting than the previous question. We have the confirmation again, precisely through the last words of the Undersecretary, that the Government is considering - I imagine perorando, but it is said considering - the hypothesis of an extension that the law prohibits to Article 178 of the new code of contracts. And why are you considering it? This is true - they are facts that come out in the newspapers - because the concessionary company of the almost absolute majority of the mileage of the Italian highway network (concession that has never won the shadow of a race) promises, if it is given an extension, that is exorbitant increases of the tolls, to realize what was already contained since 2002. The Undersecretary has confirmed that the realization of the eaves of Genoa is among the participations that, at the request of the Government, were inserted in the IV additional act stipulated in 2002. After fifteen years the work has not even been started and, as a reward to the fact that it has not fulfilled the contract, the Government, instead of asking the society to account for why it has not yet realized the eavesdropper - it would be an anchor of salvation, a breath of air for the millions of motorists, professionals and truckers that circulate around Genoa - considers the hypothesis to give some other year of concession of the whole network that affects our entire Peninsula. In short, it is clearly written that the Government rewards those who do not do the work they have undertaken to accomplish. In this case there is not even an apology made in other situations. There is no excuse: the company Autostrade for Italy, a great supporter of the yes to the referendum - and I believe this is not out of place - receives an important gratitude from the Government for this although useless - thanks to the wisdom of the Italian vote - anti-democratic momentum in supporting a ruinous reform. It receives, that is, a prize for not having realized an infrastructure deemed necessary by the Government since 2002. It is now being studied to grant the company a further extension, not only on that route, but on the whole of Italy. Motorways for Italy will thus be able to manage the routes throughout our country - at least this is their request, made in a pressing way also with the support to the yes to the referendum - and all Italy should find more expensive rates to pay something that the company Autostrade should have already realized. This is the most interesting sitting of questions I have attended in many years of parliamentary life. In conclusion, I would like to point out that over the last eight years there have been tariff increases of 25% on the entire motorway network, against an inflation of 14%, and everyone reports that, in its generous offer, Autostrade for Italy, in order to achieve that infrastructure that it would already have to realize, it asks to be able to apply a further increase of 10% or 14%, against inflation substantially reduced to zero.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u13	Question 3-03233 follows, on the need for the indication of the tenders for the award of the concession of three motorway lots. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u14	Madam President, on the reliance on motorway concessions, it must be said that the Directorate-General for Roads and Motorways and for Road Infrastructure Surveillance and Safety - as the conceder - has completed the first European retrusting tender for the A21 Piacenza-Cremona-Brescia motorway, with final award made with a measure of 12 May 2015. For the concession of the A5 motorway (ATIVA), the current concessionaire has introduced on 28 September 2015 a proposal of project financing pursuant to then article 153 of the legislative decree n. 163 of 2006 for the management of such highway section, in relation to which the aforementioned general direction, supported from special opinion issued from the General Notice of the State, 29 July 2016 has communicated the non-acceptance of the proposal introduced. In the light of this decision, on 26 September the proposer appealed to the TAR Piemonte, which has not yet set the date of discussion. As regards the A21 motorway concession Turin-Alessandria-Piacenza (SATAP A21), the deadline of which is scheduled for 30 June 2017, the preparatory work necessary for the preparation of the tender documents for the retrust of the concession is being carried out. This place, the same general direction, having to activate quickly the procedures of contest for the retrust of the concession of the A5 highway (ATIVA) and the A21 highway (SATAP A21), also pursuant to the new code of the public contracts, has demanded: to the Authority of regulation of the transports (ART), respective date 5 and 10 October 2016, the schemes of concession to place to base of contest, pursuant to article 37, paragraph 2, letter g) of the decree law n. 201 of 2011, for both the concessions; to the National Authority anticorruption (ANAC), on 10 October 2016, the call for competition type previewed from article 71 of the legislative decree no. 50 of 2016 to be used for the retrust of the concession of the A5 highway. In response to these requests, the Transport Regulatory Authority, by resolution No 142 of 30 November 2016, initiated the procedure to define the concession scheme to be put on the basis of a tender for the granting of the A5 by setting as the closing date of the procedure the date of 30 June 2017. In this regard, Legislative Decree no. 56 of 2017, with corrective and supplementary provisions of the Code of Public Contracts introduced, among other things, additional provisions in demanding terms (under Article 3, letter ggggg-honies and article 216, paragraph 27-ee), according to which the aforementioned Directorate-General on May 12 has convened a meeting with the Piedmont Region, the Po River Basin Authority, the Interregional Agency for the Po River, the metropolitan City of Turin and the Directorate-General for the supervision of motorway concessions with regard to the identification of the investments of safety to be included in the invitation to tender for the purpose of the preparation of the relative demanding frameworks. Moreover, the same Directorate-General, in taking note of the criticalities represented by the Authority of regulation of the transports (ART) regarding the aspects of economic efficiency related to the dimensions of the highways in argument, has considered, with note of 19 May 2017, to share the opportunity to preview a single procedure of contest that contemplates the joint custody of the tracts, demanding, pursuant to article 37, paragraph 2, of the aforementioned decree-law n. 201 of 2011, the acquisition, by the end of the month of July 2017, of the scheme of convention to place to base of contest for the unitary custody. With the above note it has also been pointed out that the custody will take place on the basis of the demanding framework. Therefore, the same Directorate-General considers, once acquired the scheme of concession from the ART and the scheme of invitation to tender from the NAC, to proceed, before the end of the current year, to the publication of the invitation to tender for the identification of the new concessionaire of the A5 Torino-Ivrea-Quincinetto, A4/A5 Ivrea-Santhià, Tangenziale System of Turin and branch Torino-Pinerolo and A21 Torino-Alessandria-Piacenza. In closing, I note that the concession for the Ligure Toscana motorway expires on 31 July 2019 and, therefore, the times for the start of the relative competition procedures are not yet ripe.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u17	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive answers. Here too, however, the Government's will to circumvent the laws which - I repeat - it itself has drawn up on a mandate from Parliament emerges. Let's start with the last one. He said that the concession for the Ligure Toscana motorway expires on 31 July 2019 and, therefore, it is too early to start the related competition procedures. However, we have seen that the Turin-Piacenza motorway will take at least three years. Therefore, if things are not started when there are two years left, with procedures that will last three years, it is clear that we will come to an end with the need, with the obligation, to make an extension that is prohibited by law. Note that, if the Government allows to expire any type of service given in concession or any type of contract linked to a provision of services over time, a municipality - perhaps has less technical means, fewer legislative offices, fewer officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to manage the situations - cannot extend it and, even if it did, the act would be null. Instead, the Ministry claims that it did not do what it had to do by 2016. As for what he had to do to complete the process by June 30, 2017, we are promised - let's take it as a good thing - that at the last day it will be possible to publish the ban, which will obviously have to provide some time to draft the projects. It will take a time that - we have a clear experience - will be long, in the sense that in the order of two years. And this is also written in an official government document, in the report attached to the new legislative decree amending the procurement code. However, when there are two years until the expiry of the Ligurian motorway, the government claims that there is time. It is a premeditated, clear, declared, certified intention to violate the law, to do yet another favor - it happens - always to the same dealer we talked about for the Asti-Cuneo highway and for the Turin-Piacenza. In addition, returning to thank for the information obtained, the Government decides on its own to assemble the routes, having an additional pretext to lengthen the times. It is in fact that since August 2016 a company operates without having the title of the ATIVA network, that is, the majority of the motorway network of the Province of Turin, and even benefits from an increase in rates. In fact, the perception of tolls on these motorways is illegal, since the concession expired and no longer having title. There is no financial plan from which it can be deduced that one, two or ten euros must be paid for that particular issue. There's nothing, it's illegal. The Government promotes illegality to the detriment of the efficiency of the Italy system, to the detriment of road users and to the detriment of those who, even indirectly, are a road user. Everyone who buys goods somewhere knows that a large part of them circulates on the streets. These inefficiencies and excessive tariffs are premeditatedly done to their detriment. This is scandalous and unacceptable, and we have clear evidence here, even after some time. The answers are very clear: the Government acts constantly and premeditatedly against the law to rip off the users of the highways.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u18	The following are questions 3-03533 and 3-03789 on the management of motorway concessions. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u19	Madam President, I respond jointly to Senator Malan's 3-03533 and 3-03789 acts, as they deal with the same subject. As for the continuation of the concession of Brescia-Padova, in the absence of the realization of the Valdastico Nord, I recall that in article 4, paragraph 1, of the convention it is established that the expiration of the concession is fixed, according to the realization of the Valdastico Nord, to 31 December 2026. It is also established that, if the final draft of Valdastico Nord had not been approved by 30 June 2013, the effects on the financial economy and the Convention would have been determined between the parties accordingly; this last deadline was subsequently extended, in agreement with the relevant offices of the European Commission, to 30 June 2015. Subsequently, a joint committee with the Veneto Region and the Autonomous Province of Trento was set up to reach the agreement on the identification of the interconnection corridor, which concluded its work on 9 February 2016. In order to transpose the decisions of the Joint Committee, on 14 March 2016, the company submitted an updated version of the financial economic plan, which, subsequently instructed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, was submitted on 17 May 2016 to CIPE, together with the presentation of the final document of the said Committee, in order to the subsequent approval, necessary to start the design procedures of the northern Valdastic route 2nd lot, those of realization of the 1st already approved lot and all other activities necessary for the realization of the other works. Specifically, the additional act forming part of the update of the financial economic plan submitted to CIPE, in the light of the verified achievement of the understanding on the realization of the work A31 North, has definitively given notice of the overcoming of the condition placed in article 4.2 from the Single Convention 2007. Finally, in order to collect the requests of the territory, the coordination group with the representatives of the Veneto Region, the Autonomous Province of Trento and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport was formed. The concessionary company has begun the elaboration of the definitive plan of lot 1, committing itself to subject it to the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports within the month of May 2017; the plan is in fact delivered on the day of 31 May. With regard to requests for access to administrative documents and civic access, the relevant Directorate-General reports that it has always handled them in compliance with current rules and has not concealed any information. As regards increases in motorway tolls, it is clear that these are carried out in accordance with criteria for calculation laid down in the specific sector legislation, transposed into the concession agreements concluded between the motorway concession companies and the concession holder, from which one cannot ignore. As regards the trend of the figurative postures, specific that the same varies in accordance with the criteria provided for in the current legislation. Moreover, the debt forecast generates interest payable by the concessionaire and the modulation of the concessionaire is compatible with the limited tariff increases planned for the coming years. Finally, about the increase of the motorway toll relative to the year 2017 for the company ATIVA, I recall that, in the case of expired concessions, the competent offices have recognized tariff adjustments for the concession companies that continue the ordinary management of the highway infrastructure pairs to zero. In particular, for the company ATIVA, having intervened the expiry of the concession on 31 August 2016 and, considering that the company was responsible for the tariff adjustment for the last year of concession, for the year 2017, a tariff recognition of 0,88 per cent was made. This value is equal to the value of programmed inflation (0,90 per cent) as well as desumable from the Update Note of the 2016 Economy and Finance Document, deliberated on 27 September 2016, reduced the value of the quality parameter (0,02 per cent), as determined by the tariff formula in convention. Turning to the question on the rotation of managerial staff, I inform you that at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport all tasks are cyclically asked and assigned at the request of the persons concerned. The situation of the management on the supervision of motorway dealers has particular features. In fact, the same was established at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport following the transfer of branch of the company which took place ope legislative in 2012 and, at the time of the transfer, the norm assigned to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport the competences and the staff that carried out them, including the managerial one. At first, pending the reorganization of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No. 72 of 2014, the structure was framed in the infrastructure department, by decree of the Minister protempore, who regulated its functions, administrative and accounting skills and staff. It was then necessary for such staff to wait for the aforementioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers which equated the staff, managerial and not, with that of the ministries. With the enactment of decree n. 346 of 2014 of organization of the second level of the Ministry of the infrastructures and the transports, all the places of managerial level second belt have been object of question and successive attribution, including those of the general direction in topic. With regard to the assignment of the first group of posts to the above-mentioned management, the Minister considered the need to ensure the continuity of administrative action by appointing the director who carried out the same functions at the ANAS, the institute for the supervision of motorway concessions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u22	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this time I cannot be satisfied with the information given, because a passage is completely false, and precisely when in a reply it is said that no information has been concealed. The information, which is now up to date in this and in other questions that I have tabled, which has been more jealously and strenuously concealed and which still remains mysterious, is as follows: who, when and with what instrument extended the date, scheduled for 30 June 2013, for the presentation of the final project of Valdastico Nord. This is the only reason why the current Brescia-Padova motorway dealer is the owner of that concession, except that he then sold it to a Spanish company, which - by chance - is in the process of being acquired - guess what? - by Autostrade for Italy, the great supporters of the yes to the referendum, both directly and indirectly, through their well-known influence on the media. Therefore, it cannot be said that nothing has been hidden, because still, if it were true, we would know who, when and with what instrument has given a benefit that the market - and not me - has estimated in no less than 1.2 billion euros; a signature that is worth 1.2 billion euros on the market, that has allowed the concessionaire to maintain the concession until 2026, has been sold to the company Abertis, on the basis of an assessment of 1.2 billion euros, but it is not given to know who is said official. This is the fourth question I am asking in this regard: I note that three times it has been answered, but three times neither the name nor the date nor the date has been said. Another very interesting part of the answer is that concerning my question whether the rule contained, among others, in the well-known anti-corruption law, on the rotation of staff duties has been applied at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. With an elegant bowing, it has been said that the law has not been applied: perhaps with the good excuse that before one department was called in one way and then in another; then it became a supervisory body and, therefore, the supervisory body was submitted to another department. They are always the same people who control billions, who in fact belong to the public good, who are bestowed with great generosity, with signatures that the government then keeps strenuously secret (these secrets are guarded much more jealously than military ones). I remember that I also applied for civic access under both Law 241 of 1990, and the so-called "Madia" law, and in both cases it was made melina: every office says that it belongs to another and has never responded. This confirms to me that there are serious violations of the law and, even if it were not a violation of the law, there are very serious violations of the interests of Italians, who want there to be competition in the field of motorway concessions. As the operators of a few square metres of the beach and taxi drivers are obliged to compete, these taxi drivers must also be obliged to compete, whose receipts are guaranteed by law, with no entrepreneurial risk, with huge favours, without competition and without transparency. This is a scandalous aspect that someone will pay and pay dearly sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u23	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-835.ana.u25	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 13 June, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.48 p.m.
