ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 1 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u3	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tragic consequences of the heavy storm that struck Livorno and the other parts of Tuscany in the night between Saturday and Sunday leave us all with a feeling of pain and dismay because, in addition to the heavy damage to homes and communication routes, they deliver a mournful picture of eight broken lives. The whole story is made even more dramatic by the fact that, of the eight victims, four belonged to the same family (father, mother, a four-year-old child and the grandfather who, up to the extreme sacrifice, managed heroically to save the other grandson, a child only two years old). In this first moment it is necessary to express a sincere feeling of gratitude to all those who have undertaken to alleviate the discomfort of the affected population: Forces of order, civil protection workers, medical and hospital staff, not to mention the numerous volunteers. Despite the weather events that have occurred in some areas of the country in recent days have a course certainly out of the ordinary, it would be absolute and shortsighted only to accuse only the devastating forces of nature. On the other hand, it seems necessary, as the President of the Republic pointed out last Sunday, to launch a serious and in-depth reflection on the effects of climate change and on how to effectively safeguard the territory. In gathering the exhortation of the Head of State, it should also be remembered that the negative consequences of natural phenomena are, more often than not, aggravated by a senseless defacement of the territory lasted for years in the absence of building and urban planning respectful of the use and rational use of the soil. The repetition of tragedies similar to those that struck the city of Livorno and its inhabitants can be avoided with the collective awareness that the action of man must not conflict with the equilibrium of the ecosystem. In expressing the deep condolences and emotional participation of the Senate of the Republic to the pain of the entire city, and in particular the closeness to the relatives of the victims, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of recollection and silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u6	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, as you mentioned, on the night between Saturday 9 and Sunday 10 September a storm of truly exceptional proportions fell between the provinces of Pisa and Livorno, causing death and devastation. For the city of Livorno the budget is, as he recalled, of eight deaths, about 80 displaced people and the calculation of the damages still unknown will inevitably be very large (it is estimated more than one billion). The images of the city of Livorno showed us a territory devastated by the fury of the waters, much more than the data can represent. For those who know the city of Livorno like me, to the desolation for those images was added the surprise of discovering vulnerable in neighborhoods traditionally considered among the safest. Excuse me if, in the inaccurate order of priorities, my first thought in this terrible and incredible misfortune goes to the little Camilla, who remained orphan of her family caught in sleep and to whom no escape was left, and to the "grandfather courage" as it was called Roberto Ramacciotti who, at the price of his own life, tried to save the family of his son Simone who with his wife Glenda and the two children lived in the basement below him. Or Martina Bechini, thirty-four years old, and her young bridegroom Filippo Meschini, who tried to hold her by the hand until she could in the sudden mud fury that overwhelmed them; he was found alive two kilometers later, a few hundred meters from the sea, while she, unfortunately without life, only today, still further on, and only today was found the other missing, Gianfranco Tampucci. Or still Roberto Vestuti and Raimondo Frattali, seventy years old, were trapped to try to recover some occurrences in the basements of the houses just when the devastation of the mud did not give them no escape. I would also like to remind the young Matteo Nigiotti, 22 years old, involved in a frontal clash in the artery connecting the hills of Livorno and Pisa that only those who do not know and have not been able to walk in those hours that road, can think of something foreign to the atmospheric event. On these occasions the words fail to express the most genuine sentiments of condolence, solidarity and comfort. Their stories are accompanied by many others, where perhaps only a more benevolent fate has reserved a better fate, but which could help to increase the budget of the victims in an immense way; a budget that is still unbearable and unacceptable. A catastrophe that speaks and questions our consciences once again. How much longer will we have to endure announced tragedies and misfortunes? Only from 2010 to 2016, according to a report by Legambiente, there were 242 catastrophic weather events in Italy, disasters that caused the death of 145 people and the evacuation of over 40,000: a real ecatombe due to carelessness and poor programming, but also to widespread abuse and illegality. Then there are climate change, the weather alert systems to be improved and an increasingly robust culture of relief and the organisation of civil protection systems to be exploited. However, it was sad and painful to note that, from the first hours, there have been those who practiced sterile and hateful polemics, in an unbearable game of discharge, trying to first point the index on others' responsibilities thinking of breaking into a public opinion always in search of the culprit, rather than, unfortunately, reflecting on the multiple responsibilities spread, both in time and in the actions made and in those omitted. They are attitudes that manifest the most evident symptom of the lack or loss of a sense of community that, unfortunately, is increasingly widespread. As long as this is the case, it will not be possible to draw a lesson from such misfortunes and to ensure that they are no longer repeated. Instead, it is necessary to produce a culture of security and legality that is able to immediately reverse the sense of the things that have characterized our country in recent decades and that seem, in recent times, even to be screwed into a spiral of ferocity and barbarism even in the vocabulary and in thought. Prevention, restoration of the safety status of the sites, adequate structural interventions, planning and quality of the design, reuse, rather than incessant soil consumption should have been and should have been the watchwords. Over the years, however, we have witnessed cities that have developed according to a process of urbanization that has taken place overlapping with the natural course of water regimenting, creating hydraulic engineering works that cannot be forgotten and left to the neglect of time, but that need systematic maintenance and surveillance. Unfortunately, these are interventions that do not produce, in the action of government and in the administration of a city, neither visibility nor consent; but they are interventions that, if not carried out, produce disasters, such as those that in recent years are becoming more and more numerous. Livorno, still yesterday, was a city wounded and prostrated by mud, unbelieving for what happened, but immediately reactive and ready to rise again. Allow me, then, to conclude by expressing my heartfelt and heartfelt thanks to all those, police, military, civil protection and voluntary associations who, with self-denial, have worked tirelessly to remove mud, debris and rubble. And then they: the young. The many young people who, armed with their arms and strength, as in other sad circumstances that we have experienced in recent years, have worked with buckets and shovels to do what the means could not do or to act alone when the means were not available. It is precisely to them that my last emotional thought goes, in the indescribable images of yesterday, in a sunny afternoon after the known devastation and the still looming threat of the previous day. To those young people: that with their passion and determination they can nourish the hope of a different world and that they are able to remove, together with the rubble, even the mistakes that generations before them have sowed guiltfully. Perhaps it is with a new look that we must look to the future, a future to be rebuilt without the obsession of maximum profit and maximum speculation. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Art.1-MDP Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u9	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I wish to express my condolences to the families of the eight victims of the Livorno flood and solidarity with the city. I am particularly attached to Livorno, because he elected me for ten years city councilor and for five years provincial councilor. When a family, the typical Italian family, composed of its father, mother, grandparents and grandchildren, lives in symbiosis and suddenly a wave of water and mud overwhelms it and leaves only a two-year-old girl alive and grandmother, or, in a couple, the wife dies leaving her husband, it is clear that we have to ask ourselves why. Fortunately, the General Insurances made a gesture, which I appreciated and which I believe all colleagues also appreciate: they will think of the future of the child, since both the grandfather and the father had an insurance agency of the Generals. Is there the imponderable element? I don't know. But I know that Livorno doesn't have a river; Livorno has a well-organised canal, a channel dating back to the Medici's time, and which has never created problems. If a disaster such as this happens, it is evident that man is to blame. But I never liked the fact that, when tragedies of this nature occur, before thinking of helping those who are in difficulty or trying to restore the city to its rules, try to find the culprit. There will be time and way to understand if there are responsibilities, and it is not our job, but it will be the task of the judiciary to be able to acclaim it. That torrent was buried seventy or eighty years ago; it even seems to me that it was buried in 1933. Now, go and look for the responsibilities, as has happened in these days, between the municipal administration of Livorno and the Region, of why that stream has been buried, when it is now seventy or eighty years that this has happened, seems excessive. Of course, the city administration of Livorno doesn't have the same political color as I do, but I don't feel like throwing myself at it, as it happened. Above all, I hope that the central government, the Region and the Municipality will work together with Livorno, in order to restore the city in its regulation. I believe that man must ask himself - said Senator Filippi just now - about what has happened and what he has done in recent years: he has used the territory for profit, without thinking about future generations. It is time to think about future generations and invest in trying to secure the territory. I know that the cost is very high, because there have been studies by technicians, who have found huge figures. However, if we never begin to bring the territory back to its origins, we will certainly not be able to solve the problem. If necessary, we must also have the courage to tear down what has been built, to try to prevent disasters from happening in the future like what has happened in the city of Livorno these days. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u12	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, for more than one reason I am personally attached to Livorno and Livorno. For more than one reason the day 10 evokes in me and in the Livorno other wounds, very deep, of annihilated existences; wounds still open and painful. The September 10 flood suddenly broke so many, too many innocent lives. A tragedy that caught these people at night in their homes. Powerless people against the unheard of fury of water and mud, who in a matter of minutes overwhelmed everything, leaving behind death, fear and enormous damage. A cloud of exceptional proportions: 260 millimeters of water in two hours, what normally rains in two months. The water swept Livorno with unusual violence, mainly hitting the south and causing eight victims. In via Nazario Sauro an entire family, the Ramacciotti family, was annihilated: Grandpa Roberto, his son Simone, his daughter-in-law Glenda and their four-year-old boy just completed. The only niece Camilla was rescued, saved by her grandfather, who then threw herself into the water to try to help the other members of the family, but without success. In Via della Fontanella Mr. Raimondo Frattali, in despair, had managed to secure his wife and daughter in the highest levels; then the fury of the water swept him in a few moments. Mr Roberto Vestuti, seventy-four years old, originally from Carrara, my city, lost his life inside his home, overwhelmed by water and mud, in his own kitchen. Broken lives where they felt safe. Finally, after hours, two more broken lives were found: Gianfranco Tampucci and the young Martina Bechini, only thirty-four years old. For Livorno, for Tuscany and for the whole country this is an infinite tragedy, which torments deep in the heart of all of us. With great effort and pain, but with determination and pride, the city is trying to raise its head. The Livornians have quickly dried up their tears and their city, demonstrating even in these tragic hours that generosity, altruism and solidarity are not relics of the past, but the values that establish a healthy society or that allow to put it back on its feet after a natural cataclysm. We therefore thank the institutional structures that immediately set in motion and the volunteers who spontaneously made themselves available to the coordinators to start the rescue machine. A special thanks goes also to the stubbornness and pride of the Livornians who, after the first moments of despair, intervened forcefully to bring back to normal their neighborhoods. On behalf of me and the entire 5 Star Movement Group, they all have a sincere embrace. We all strive for the citizens who have suffered damage and especially for the family and friends of the victims of Livorno. This is the human part; then I am aware that the only mourning will not be enough to overcome the sense of loneliness that is felt in these cases. In these moments, in fact, we need the cooperation of all forces, putting aside any form of controversy. Those who live in such a tragic experience need sufficient strength and resources to raise their heads, and this will be the task of politics, so that no one really remains behind, so that citizens never feel abandoned. On behalf of all of us, I embrace all of Livorno. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u15	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Group of the Italian Left joins in its words and those of our colleagues, because we are close and saddened by the victims of Livorno, the city and the families affected by immense damage and who are out of the house. Once again we find ourselves in this House talking about another tragedy, as it happens all too often. Yet, the concentration of water dropped in a few hours was so much that it actually brought the city under water. Unfortunately, as has already been said in the interventions that preceded me, there are eight people dead, many injured and many damages to homes, shops, farms and newly cultivated land. Beyond the delays, the colors of the weather alert, the responsibilities in the management of the emergency, on which it will obviously be necessary to clarify (and I would like to say that no one can ever escape, neither the old nor the new administrators), the game of the rebound of responsibility that we witnessed in the hours immediately following the tragedy was really painful; pain that is added to pain. What happened in Livorno once again makes clear one issue on which we have often discussed in this House, namely that Italy is an increasingly insecure country. Climate change and territorial planning based on improvisation and partisan interests have given us a fragile country, constantly exposed to risks, where the action of hydrogeological recovery has all too often stopped only to the electoral commitments and then has not been followed in the actions of government. Our country therefore needs care and prevention, as the areas of Salviano, Montenero, Collinaia and the many other areas of Livorno that in these hours are still covered by mud. We are also very concerned about the news of these hours of further environmental damage. Livorno is also an industrial city where highly polluting products are transformed and the news coming from the ENI factory in Stagno worry us not little. As often happens, before these events we have all seen the great response of the citizens of Livorno who have acted in a great spirit of solidarity, intervening especially where very often the institutions and the forces of order failed and have not yet been able to arrive. I am thinking, for example, of what happened to the club ARCI Salviano, where the kids of the Curva Nord, fans of Livorno Calcio, have become, together with many citizens, the porters, the young guests of a reception center, the voluntary associations of the city, but I would say of the Region, the Forces of order, the firemen, the angels of the mud of the city of Livorno. Now, however, we are faced with an emergency and all the institutions must work together to clean up Livorno from the mud and bring back home, as in their own activities, all the people affected. But if Livorno teaches something, then immediately enter among the priorities of national, regional and local government action the prevention, protection, care and maintenance of the territory: thousands of small large works that can secure the country, limit the costs for damage and emergencies, to allow everyone to feel safe in their own home, because it is really unacceptable to die from rain. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u18	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, unfortunately, once again we are here to commemorate the victims of a tragedy, because what happened in Livorno was really a great tragedy. Now is the time of mourning, solidarity and concrete aid; then will be the time of confrontation, unfortunately also of unnecessary controversy and the scrutiny of possible responsibilities. But now I want to express the pain for the victims, the solidarity to those who have suffered damage and suffering and the appreciation for all those who are doing everything possible to overcome the emergency and to help the city of Livorno and its citizens to return quickly to normal. I have before me the images of the floods, of the mud, of the violence of the waters, which are associated with those of the destruction and the suffering caused a short time ago by the earthquakes and the feelings I feel are many, from anger to sorrow, from discouragement to deep emotion, like the one aroused by that grandfather who threw himself into the basement that was filling himself with water to save his little niece Camilla of a few years and then, after having put her safe, he dug himself up to help the other family members, thus losing his life too. And for that pensioner, the eighth victim found, who lost his life in the desperate attempt to save his dog, demonstrating once again how strong love can be that binds a man to his pet of affection. It is these deeds that we have had to learn on various and different occasions as a result of too many other tragedies. These are narratives that show us the best side of this country, its ability to sacrifice and then its determination to overcome adversity. It is these stories that, in the tragedy, comfort us and leave an open window of confidence for reconstruction. But we cannot ignore that for too many years the Italian territory has been left in the carelessness, plundered, and that the dangers and damage caused by a wild anthropization have been guiltfully ignored: unfortunately these are the results today. I am not interested in discussing responsibilities; what is really important to say is that these issues must become a fundamental political priority for the central government and - above all - for the local government. We must recover years and years of damage; but above all we must reaffirm the culture of care of a complex territory such as Italy, which is at environmental, hydrogeological and telluric risk. In Livorno some interventions were carried out not many years ago. Those interventions proved insufficient, probably because they were designed for a different picture, which did not include weather events as extreme as those taking place today. So we must not only design new solutions, but also review what little has been done in recent years. The government has begun to make resources available (a few or many, we will see), but I understand that of those resources - to date - only a small part of it has been committed: it is the sign of an obvious limit of transversal political and cultural underestimation, which must absolutely be overcome. I am well aware that this is an undertaking that shakes the wrists, but we must do so: punishment for new tragedies and the waste of immense resources in pursuit of one emergency after another. The effects of climate change are becoming increasingly apparent; whether they are permanent or not is being discussed. Most experts believe that we are still faced with a long time horizon that will be marked by increasing extreme events. The precautionary principle requires that we look at the most dangerous prospect. Investments to restore, secure, cure and protect the territory, simplify the bureaucracy, together with a rigorous action to protect the legality, are the only concrete solution, although reasonably distributed over time, that can subvert the current situation that risks becoming more dramatic every day. This creates the necessary conditions of safety and environmental protection to which a civilised people has a duty to aspire. Only in doing so does it also give due recognition to the many, too many victims of these dramatic events. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u21	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the ALA-Civic Chosen Group also supports the expressions of sorrow for the tragedy of Livorno and solidarity for the people of Livorno, in particular for the families of the victims and for those who are working in these hours to rebuild and help the affected populations. We would not have wanted to witness the inappropriate polemics between the mayor of Livorno and the governor of Tuscany, the ripples of responsibilities that serve nothing because they always happen after the facts have tragically happened. Too many times, in fact - and we must note this with concern - the effects of natural disasters have, as before, caused the lack of prevention, underestimates and bureaucratic delays. In Livorno there has been an exceptional event, the so-called water bomb, but such events, of tropical type, have occurred in recent years with increasing frequency in our territory. Mr Galletti is right, therefore, when he says that we need to get out of the emerging logic and step up our efforts to implement the long-term and still largely unfulfilled interventions quickly. The Italian safe plan of the Renzi Government - I apologize if in this commemoration I give of the figures - dates back to 2014: there are 7.7 billion euros to spend by 2023 to strengthen the banks, build drainers and expansion boxes for the floods, widen the tombed channels, raise walls of containment. Of these billions, however, only a little more than EUR 114 million has been spent so far, less than 1.5% of the total available. There are no executive projects, there are very few open yards, just 6% of the almost 9,000 necessary and priority interventions reported by the regions when the plan was launched. For Livorno there are two interventions on the Government list, also in preliminary phase, and they do not concern Rio Ardenza or Rio Maggiore, that is the two watercourses overflowed on Sunday: the estimated cost is 3.5 million euros. Well, delivery times have not yet been set. From Livorno comes a tragic lesson: since October 2015 the four expansion boxes that watch over the Rio Maggiore are active, but, unfortunately, they were not enough to prevent the disaster on Sunday: they proved to be too small and the mass of water rained from the sky could continue its underground race clogging the pipes, blowing the basement channels, causing the death of eight people. Yet, the hypothesis of making larger expansion boxes had been taken into account, but the construction of more capable tanks would have increased the excavation costs. It would have been up to the municipality to pay more and unfortunately there was no money. In fact, the municipality had already spent EUR 11.5 million to settle the other potentially exondable areas. Everything has been done in accordance with the law, but meanwhile the law has changed, since a year ago the Tuscany Region has launched a plan of hydrogeological structure that provides for major expansion boxes. In conclusion, Mr President, we must adapt the laws of prevention to climate change, we must speed up the bureaucracy, review the draconian cuts to the Municipalities; in short, we must get out of the emerging logic in order to ensure that the next water bomb does not force us to count the sacrifice of other human lives and to new due but useless commemorations such as today. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u24	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the condolences of the families of the victims of Livorno, recalling and expressing at the same time the same condolences to the families and victims of the earthquake in Ischia, beyond any cultural speculation that was made for the event that struck my land during the August period, when we were all at sea. I am sure that the Senate of the Republic wants to associate itself with the expression of the feeling of condolence towards the victims of the tragic event that struck us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u27	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of the North League, I too wish to express our condolences for the victims and our solidarity with the whole city of Livorno. In a special way we want to draw attention to little Camilla, who we believe is twice an innocent victim; first for her young age and second because she had no responsibility for it. I do not want to go into the substance of the responsibilities; we all, I believe, did not like the controversy. I also believe that this is the time to really be in solidarity with the city and to do together some analyses that are really proactive. Unfortunately the territory of our country is fragile already from the hydrogeological point of view. The neglect, manifested in the past years in a bad planning of the construction of the territory, today gives us an even more marked and accentuated fragility. We believe that this umpteenth tragedy, in which there have been too many victims and too much damage also from the economic point of view, must be the starting point to make reflections on our territory. At the local level, we believe that we must have the courage to make a serious analysis, evaluating what in the past years, especially the seventies, has been delivered to us as the construction and planning of our territory. We must also have the courage to intervene in an important way, perhaps outside of the electoral and political consensus, planning the restoration of the places through demolitions, as happened in other territories that before Livorno have unfortunately experienced these bad and sad experiences, from which they have been able to draw positive stimuli and found the strength to restore the places. Then there is another reflection that I believe is important in the analysis that needs to be done. Today we are confronted with a climate situation that is disrupting all the parameters of reference in the planning and implementation of the land defense works. The parameters of reference only for the rains are not in fact covered in the notebook of the typical works; I remember that 260 mm of rain in a few hours represents a devastating phenomenon. The global climate is really changing. What is happening in the United States makes you shudder. Even in our country the climate is unfortunately changing. Not only in our country, but throughout Europe, there are cases and situations, even outside our borders, where, unfortunately, rainfall and climate change create these major problems. Therefore serious and thoughtful reflections must be made in order to plan the territory in the near future in a serious and responsible way, having the courage to admit their responsibilities in a management that, in part, we have inherited, but that we have also had little courage to modify changing the state of the places. We really need to make the qualitative leap that allows us to prevent these tragedies from happening again. Climate change certainly does not help us, but if we ourselves do not even have the courage to admit our mistakes, restoring and fixing our territory and our environment, we will continue to pay the consequences. Mr President, I should like to end by expressing once again our full solidarity with all the people of Livorno and a heartfelt sympathy for the victims of this terrible tragedy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u30	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, our Group also supports the mourning for this sad and sad moment with which, after the summer break, we resume our work. Our first thought is of mourning and pain towards the people who have lost their lives, their families and their loved ones. The second thought is of solidarity with the families, communities and administrations of those territories where they are still digging between rubble, debris and mud. The third thought goes to the rescuers and to all those who have spoken: I am referring to the organized groups, such as the firemen and civil protection, but also to the many volunteers who, as always in situations like these, flock from countries, neighboring territories and also from all over Italy. In fact, in the face of these tragedies solidarity is national and total unity. This tragedy reminds us of other or similar situations. I remember the flood of Genoa in 2011 and the floods that hit Piedmont, Veneto, Lombardy and Calabria from 1994 onwards. There is practically no Italian Region that has not been affected by such tragedies. However, we are only talking about floods, even if someone has already mentioned earthquakes. There are many tragedies. We are a vulnerable and delicate country. There are rivers that are quiet for centuries and rigagnoli that seem perennially dry and then, suddenly, also due to the effects of climate change and the evolution of the climate, are enlarged and flooded, dragging mud and stone, overwhelming countries and causing victims and violence. These tragedies are many. Moreover, in our country there are communities and inhabited centers inserted in very fragile and delicate territories for centuries, for hundreds of years, sometimes for millennia, with the consequence that layers of urbanization add to layers of other urbanization, sometimes making the final urbanization of the complicated, difficult, unexpected and unexpected countries. This is how these tragedies follow each other. What are the things to say? The only thing to say is that emergency policy is not enough and does not pay anymore. We need the policy of prevention, protection of the territory, attention, security and the fight against illegality. For this reason, we hope that the Government will take immediate action to combat building abuse, as well as finding resources to meet damaged families and communities. From another point of view, we hope the beginning of a new policy of attention and a culture of the territory, nature and the protection of our landscapes and territories that, from an environmental and landscape point of view, are beautiful, unique, particular and appreciated all over the world. However, when nature rebels and is not managed, neither controlled nor protected, it causes these situations. On behalf of our Group, therefore, I repeat the closeness to the populations and families affected and I would see in Camilla, that little child so badly affected, the symbol of something that has to change, that must start again with a new liveliness and intensity. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u31	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved the agenda for the Assembly's work until 28 September. This week, starting from the afternoon session of tomorrow, will be discussed the drafts of bill of 2016 and 2017 accounting. The deadline for tabling amendments is 10 a.m. tomorrow. The timetable also provides for the examination of documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and the bill delegates for the code of performance. Next week the discussion of the bill on the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto will continue. In addition, the draft law on the celebrations of Ovid, Rossini, Leonardo, Raffaello and Dante, as well as the draft laws on small municipalities, the Italian sign language and the provision of Internet services will be examined. The week from 26 to 28 September provides for the examination of ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Committee and the vote on the resignations submitted by Senators Manassero and Vacciano. When concluded by the Commissions, the draft law on the advance treatment provisions, on the disposal of sludge in agriculture, the European law 2017, the bill amending the bankruptcy law, as well as the bill on protected areas, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies, will also be discussed. In the afternoon sessions of Tuesday 19 and Tuesday 26 September, beginning at 11 am, the motions on the management responsibilities of the banks and the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus will be discussed respectively. The calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the Update Note to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document. Finally, the Conference of Leaders took note of guidelines on public consultation procedures concerning measures or matters of general interest which are therefore understood to be acquired as working arrangements of the Senate's committees and bodies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u32	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2017: - Drawing of Law No 2227 - Provisions for the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the death of Gioachino Rossini - Drawing of Law No 2810 and related - Provisions for the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the death of Leonardo da Vinci and Raffaello Sanzio and of the 700th anniversary of the death of Dante Alighieri (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 2886 - Provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations deriving from the belonging of Italy to the European Union - European Law 2017 (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 2681 and related - Delegation to the Government for the reform of the disciplines of the business crisis and insolvency (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - 110-100-104 to the Law No 6 - 1034-1031 to 2012
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u33	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the agenda of the Assembly until 28 September 2017: [[Wednesday 13 September ant. h. 9,30-13 - Legal drawings nn. 2874 and 2875 - Report 2016 and Drafting 2017 (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - Draft law n. 2287-BIS and related - Delegate to the Government for the code of the show (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 14 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 14 September pom. H. 16.30 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law no. 2874 and 2875 (Report 2016 and 2017 settlement) must be submitted by 10 am on Wednesday 13 September. [[Tuesday 19 September ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on bank management responsibilities Tuesday, September 19 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following unfinished bill - Following bill n. 951 and connected - Detachment of the municipality of Sappada from Veneto and aggregation to Friuli-Venezia Giulia - Drawing of law n. 2304 and connected - Celebration two thousand years after the death of Ovid - Drawing of law n. 2227 - Celebration of the one hundred and fifty years after the death of Gioachino Rossini - Drawing of law n. 2810 and connected - Celebrations Leonardo, Raffaello and Dante (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2541 - Small municipalities (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 302 and connected - Italian language of signs - Drawing of law n. 2484 - Provision of internet services (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 20 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 21 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday, September 21 pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to the draft law No 2227 (Celebration of the 150th anniversary of the death of Gioachino Rossini) and No 2810 and related (Leonardo, Raffaello and Dante Celebrations) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 14 September. [[Tuesday 26 September ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus Tuesday, September 26 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following unconcluded draft laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission - Resignation of Senators Manassero and Vacciano (Secret ballot vote) - Drawing of law n. 2801 and related - Advanced provisions of treatment (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2323 - Delegation of sludge disposal in agriculture (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2886 - European law 2017 (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2681 and connected - Amendments to bankruptcy law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 110-1004-1034-1931-2012-B - Protected areas (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 27 "Ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 28 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, September 28 pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The calendar can be integrated with the examination of the Update Note to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2801 and related (anticipated treatment provisions), No 2323 (Delegate sludge disposal in agriculture), No 2886 (European Law 2017), No 2681 and related (Amendments to bankruptcy law) and No 110-1004-1034-1931-2012-B (Protected areas) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 2874 and 2875 (Report 2016 and 2017 Settlement) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. FI-PdL XVII 34' M5S 30' Mixed 28' AP-CpE-NCD 25' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 22' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 22' Art. 1-MDP 21' ALA-SCCLP 20' LN-Aut 19' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 18' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 2287-BIS and related (Delegation to the Government for the Show Code) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 24' FI-PdL XVII 48' M5S 42' Mixed 39' AP-CpE-NCD 35' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 31' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 30' Art. 1-MDP 29' ALA-SCLP 28' LN-Aut 27' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2886 (European Law 2017) (5 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 hours, of which: PD 48' FI-PdL XVII 27' M5S 24' Mixed 23' AP-CpE-NCD 20' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 18' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 17' Art. 1-MDP 17' ALA-SCLP 16' LN-Aut 15' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, n....- bis (Note of update to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document) (5 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 36' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 18' Mixed 17' AP-CpE-NCD 15' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 13' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 13' Art. 1-MDP 13' ALA-SCCLP 12' LN-Aut 12' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 11' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as the whole of this House has been able to learn and as we discussed for a long time at the Conference of the Leaders, in this proposal for a timetable, which included many issues and many draft laws that were already present in the calendar before the summer break and also other measures that I will then say, there is one of the issues that have been discussed most in these hours, days and weeks in public opinion and among political forces: I am referring to the measure on ius soli. You yourself, Mr President, received the delegation of the Italian Association without citizenship, which, like many of us, had intended that at least when work resumed after the summer break, the path of this bill would be resumed. I would also like to say very clearly that we, contrary to some statement, so to speak from the runaway sen, made even today, as members of the Italian Left, have committed ourselves and we have given ample willingness even - I repeat this here and I believe that no one can doubt our being in opposition - to vote for a faith of purpose, should it be placed. Why all this? It is not a stunt or perhaps the will of someone to campaign for election, because - as is well known - these are not the issues to be called for. We are doing this because we believe that at this time, especially after a summer full of hate campaigns and racism and xenophobia, Parliament - and the Senate in particular - would have a duty to send out an important signal and a clear message through the adoption of this bill. It would be a law of civilization that would be good for the country, that is to say, because it would promote even more integration and therefore, at such a delicate moment, a greater security of our country. That is why we consider it absolutely serious that the majority forces did not want, after the discussion at the Conference of the Leaders, to include again the draft law on ius soli on the calendar, because I recall that it has already been incardinated. Therefore, Mr President, we propose, since the draft law on the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto was also included in the calendar, as had been voted by the Senate Assembly and as was foreseen in the old calendar, that immediately after the examination of the draft law on ius soli. Our proposal therefore concerns the rapid inclusion in the timetable, for this week or next week, of the measure on ius soli. There are times, also because we would not want, when the DEF arrives, to come and say that we must wait for the approval of the law of stability. I don't know if anyone from PD noticed, but the legislature is about to end and it would be a defeat for everyone not to have passed this bill. On the other hand, Mr President, I would like to say that some of the draft laws we had left behind before the summer recess were included, saying that they would not be included in the timetable, such as the draft law on parks, which has just begun in the Commission when the amendments were presented and which we are proposing is not included in the timetable, because we are still at a stage of discussion in the Commission. We also think that it would be absolutely essential, with regard to the ratifications of the agreements, to come to terms with the possibility of greater scope for deepening and reflection on the ratification of the CETA, but on this the Conference of Leaders has already decided in some way. For this President, I strongly renew the request for inclusion in the timetable, as soon as possible, of the draft law on citizenship. We believe that it would not be hasty to include the measure in the week from 19 to 21 September. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u39	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, in the same line as Mr De Petris, I myself, on behalf of my Group, insisted on the Conference of the Leaders for the very short time to be included in our timetable for the draft law on ius soli. I would like to stress that it is a story that has lasted too long: it is a bill that has been lying in the Senate since 2015. The Conference of Leaders decided to bring it to the Assembly, although work was not completed in the Commission, taking note of the obstructive attitude of a group in this Senate. There has been a strong decision that is now not followed up by the acceptance of referrals. The motivation is the search for consensus within the majority, but our belief is that this research is becoming an alibi for those who, over time, have changed their opinions on the subject, from my point of view inexplicably, and do not want to expose themselves with an explicit rejection of the bill because they would not know how to justify it. Well, I believe that with the calendarization we have made a commitment not only to the more than 800,000 girls and boys who live daily in our country, who have led their entire lives here, who are the various Luisa, Marco, Matteo who attend schools with our children, who play with them in parks and courtyards, to whom we have created an expectation that calls us to be responsible, but also to their families who raised them and raised them in our country making them Italian citizens in fact. To these is added the commitment we have made to the communities in which they carry out their lives as our children. I consider it unacceptable a timetable which does not provide for the true inclusion of the ius solo so that it is possible for everyone in this House - not only the majority but also the oppositions - to assume their responsibility because, even among the oppositions, there have been extraordinary changes in position during the parliamentary term. It is, in my opinion, a necessary task of clarity towards all the people I have listed and also the country. For us this is a direct element so that the calendar can be shared. I also support Mr De Petris' call for the Parks Act not to be scheduled because it is too far behind. It is the same objection that I was raised - I am telling my fellow Members - at the Conference of the Leaders, that the law, which I believe to be fundamental, on the orphans of feminicide could not be scheduled in this House because there is very intensive work in the Commission which must be respected. I believe that the same problem also applies to the Parks Act. I therefore call for it to be expunged from the timetable in this House. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u42	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, in three weeks of timetabled work, a great many measures have been included, some important, urgent and necessary, others certainly not urgent and necessary and perhaps less important, but a half day has not been found to include the measure for the repeal of vitalities. We are planning the Senate's work for three weeks and, therefore, there would have been plenty of time to respect the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which is already starting the debate on this measure. It would have been a nice message to send to the country and it will be a nice message if we insert it. This is a measure approved at the end of July in the House of Deputies by the majority forces: Civic Choice, SEL and its subsequent declinations, the Northern League and PD have voted yes to the Chamber; but now, in the Conference of the Leaders there has been not a single intervention in support of this proposal of the 5 Star Movement that precisely to emphasize the necessity and the urgency of the calendarization of the provision has signalled only one measure to be calendarized: that on the repeal of the vitalitys. President Zanda has been silent. Yet we are talking about costs incurred by the Senate and the House of Deputies for hundreds of millions of euros and a privilege that concerns 2,600 former parliamentarians. The only shame is that it was not repealed dozens of years ago. It's 2017 and we're still talking about the parliamentarians' vitality. The impression that I have therefore seen this scene change at the Conference of the Leaders is that there is no willingness to schedule the measure. So I would like to reiterate the same request I made in the Conference of Leaders: I would ask that the draft law for the repeal of vitalities be included in the timetable, which has already been approved in the House of Deputies at the end of July. I believe that we must do this out of respect for the 60 million citizens and above all in respect for the dignity of the institution we represent. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u45	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to make a simple request. Before the resignation of Senator Vacciano, I ask if it is possible to insert the bill on the caregiver in the schedule of work. These people have been trying to see their rights recognized for more than twenty years: they are people who care for a serious disabled person from morning to evening. It is a measure that gives dignity, civilization and recognizes the right to health of these people. You have almost all signed it, there are more than 200 signatures, but it is now stuck in the Commission. I therefore call for this to be included in the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings before the debate on the resignation of Senator Vacciano. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of further draft legislation. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of the Assembly's work aimed at examining the draft law on protected areas. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u49	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I asked to make a speech at the end of the sitting in order to highlight a matter which I think is important, when, rightly, we are talking about work and the right to work: it is the subject of Law No 68 of 1999 which protects the work of disabled people; it is a law that is very difficult to apply, partly because the payment of a sum for not hiring disabled people is allowed. The Government, specifically the Ministry of Labour, must submit every two years a report to Parliament on the implementation of this law. The last report, relating to the 2014-2015 two-year period, which was to be filed by 30 June 2016, was not filed. So I am also formally asking the Ministry of Labour to present this report and I stress that the 2016-2017 report will have to be submitted by 30 June 2.018. This is because this report is also very important in relation to an assessment of the amendment of Law No 68 of 1999 to protect the work of disabled people. [[Applause from Senator Padua.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u52	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, four days ago a group of Italian scientists launched an appeal. Politics should represent civil society. When it comes to climate change - today we have commemorated the victims of disastrous events due to climate change - science should have an extremely greater listen than it is today. Yet the latest National Climate Change Conference dates back ten years, in 2007. Ten years have passed and the climate situation has absolutely deteriorated, but no government, including our current one, has ever bothered to call a national conference. And yet the signs are all there. Today we have commemorated victims; the frequency of disastrous events is increasing, but paradoxically we act as if nothing were happening and as if things were improving, without acting on the main responsible factor: fossil fuels. I just remember that Italy is the last in terms of sustainable mobility and electric mobility. We continue to build absolutely inefficient roads and infrastructure instead of giving priority to iron transport, which is what has an extremely higher energy efficiency than road transport. The engine goes to burst as soon as possible because - I remember it especially to the Italians - it has a yield of 30% on average, 70% of the energy goes into heat, further warming an atmosphere that is already too hot: we are suffering the consequences of all this. Instead, we are delighted, because GDP has recently increased and we have sold many cars with the combustion engine - something absolutely not convenient for our society. While in China entire cities have public transport by electric buses, here we are still at the level of a few leading municipalities that are replacing the fleets of electric public transport. Yet a shift from fossil energy to renewable energy would have huge positive consequences. I remember that the study, just published, of 27 researchers of four prestigious international universities provides for Italy alone 500,000 jobs from here to 2030, 6,000 euros of savings per year for Italians, 60,000 fewer deaths per year. So the appeal I make to you, as President of the Senate, and to the Government is to hold a new national conference on climate change and sign the appeal signed by numerous researchers of primary importance in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u55	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a very topical subject, namely fake news. I want to read here a fake news that appeared in August, on the "Corriere della Sera", on "La Repubblica", and on "Il Fatto Quotidiano", which you probably have read many. In Milan a foreigner, a Bengali, ended up in hospital because he would ingest chocolate bars containing the principle of marijuana, or cannabis, called THC. Let's go read the headlines. The "Corriere della Sera" reads: "Milan, clerk eats bars and feels bad: there was drugs." Emergency shelter. He's been sick. In the course of the night, the clinical picture improved. He's out of danger. The daily newspaper "La Repubblica" speaks of the Bengali rescue code red. The Newspaper Fact is as follows: Milan, cleaning man eats the bars (...). But they contained THC: it's very serious. He's in desperate condition. Again, in the article it is reported twice that he has been hospitalized under very serious conditions and in desperate conditions. Well, to me this news really seemed like a fake news because, to date, on the whole planet no one has ever felt ill, got sick or died from ingesting THC, one of the principles of cannabis, which is defined as a light drug and certainly not as a heavy drug, as are tobacco, alcohol or other substances, albeit legal. As already done in the past and as had happened on the occasion of other fake news, such as those of the alleged children who ended up in hospital because they were seriously ill (we remember the case of Milan, the case of Genoa, that of Treviso di Belluno and Florence), I called the health management of the hospital Fatebenefratelli. Well, the Bengali has not arrived in desperate conditions and has never been in danger. Hear, hear, he had simply fallen asleep. We cannot understand why, even today, in 2017, three national newspapers so important give a completely distorted version, among other things, hunting the usual drug that drugs is not, so much so that - I would remind you too, Mr President - for those who have not known since 2007 the THC, i.e. the cannabis flowers, we sell them in the pharmacy on prescription. In Holland they are sold at the bar, in Italy we hide them at the pharmacy to cure people and it is also difficult to access. However, to arrive, in August 2017, to declare that she ended up in code red, in danger of life, a person who, as the health management of the hospital Fatebenefratelli, had simply fallen asleep, is really serious. There is only the fact here that a fake news has been reported and we hope, Mr President, that it will never happen again. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bertorotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u58	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting because it is now clear the framework of absolute confusion that has arisen as a result of the enactment of Law No 119 of 2017 on compulsory vaccines. The events of these days confirm the concerns, punctually highlighted when voting by some, including myself. In fact, a measure has been approved that only creates confusion, downloading all the responsibilities on ASL and schools, thus, once again, downloading the responsibilities at the level of the local administration. Families and parents have spread great concerns, anguish sometimes, and disorientation, regardless of opposing or in favour of vaccines. What I want to say is that the direction in which the government is moving is not exactly to protect and defend citizens. This is not the way to convince anyone of the goodness of their own reasons, but it is, instead, the safest and surest way to get people away, strengthening even more doubts and perplexities about the much discussed vaccination practice. I am frightened by the growing feeling of anger over an obligation imposed with a surprising speed, even in view of normal parliamentary times. It is necessary, therefore, to review the ways in which the Government considers to proceed, making Italian citizens believe that they are absolutely incapable of making autonomous and sensible decisions for the health of all. In this perspective, it certainly has not helped the plaintiff that has established itself in my Region, Veneto, between the Region itself and the Ministry, which has created even more uncertainty among the parents. In this regard, I would even point out that a group of mothers told me about some schools which, in turn, disoriented, gave indications that they would not deposit anything, making parents risk feeling that their children were excluded from school. In the meantime, I have heard the Minister Faithful declare that the Ministry would be calming the parents. The reality is quite different: citizens are worried and angry about the procedures chosen by this Government. In short, Mr President, there is only one question to be asked: what will be the next obligation that you intend to impose in a couple of months' time and in such an arrogant manner?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u61	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am speaking here today to remind everyone of the prison situation in Italy. The ECPT (European Convention for the Prevention of Torture), a body of the Council of Europe, of which I am a member, recently presented a specific report dedicated to Italy, on the situation of prisons and detention centres. We're not doing well. The criticisms are serious, precise and detailed, with specific accusations referring to certain prisons. Violences perpetrated on prisoners by prison agents, even some drunken during the service, violence between groups of prisoners tolerated by the prison police, infrastructure deficiencies and overcrowding are therefore presented as endemic evils of our penitentiaries. It takes little to be honest that the situation is rapidly deteriorating; it is enough to enter some penitentiary institution in person to verify the conditions in which they live. Personally, in the last few weeks without Roman commitments (let's say so), I went to the prison of Poggioreale in Naples and to the prison of Vigevano; in both cases, I found what reported in the report, as in the case of overcrowding. I saw with my own eyes cells with nine inmates, bunk beds up to three floors, placed at a height so that if someone fell from that height during sleep, he would surely risk serious physical damage. There are structural deficiencies in the situation of toilets and kitchens where prisoners prepare their meals, full of mold and other situations. Then there is the absence of reintegration paths, especially work, because maybe the educational ones are a little there. Under these conditions, the re-educational task and the objective of the future reintegration into the civil assembly, which is precisely the instruments restrictive of personal freedom for those who have committed crimes, is completely trampled on, forgotten and neglected. Yet this situation generates a high level of relapse, a high rate of people who, once out of prison, return to crime, having taken no rehabilitation path. I don't want to hide the personal responsibilities of every perpetrator who committed a crime, but I think our society's goal is to reinstate them, just because they don't commit them anymore. I believe that this Parliament can and must do more, so that these very serious situations and the criticalities of our prison system come to an end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u64	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I read today about "The Morning" (but it has been a week since Toni Nocchetti informed us with all his data), that in most regions school has begun. But it didn't start for everyone, because disabled people are not guaranteed support. From today there is no support for everyone, from today there is support for someone. From today there is no transport for everyone, from today there is transport for someone. As of today, there is no guarantee of drug care: there are some kids who unfortunately do not go to school, because no one takes the responsibility to give them drugs. I've been saying the same thing every year for years. We are all able to stand here and weep the dead; but there are really many living who need it. There is no one who takes responsibility for all these disabled people, who must be guaranteed the change; there is no one, really. Good school must be for everyone, not just for some. For these kids unfortunately good school doesn't start on the first day. I hope that everyone will move and that we will be able to guarantee the necessary services. There is nothing more humiliating for a parent than reminding the state that his child exists. Every year we must always remind all the principals not that our children have needs, but that our children have rights. [[Applause from Senators Puglia, Simeoni and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u65	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-872.ana.u66	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 13 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.23 a.m.
