ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mauro Giovanni, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 6 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u10	PERRONE (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I would be grateful if you would ask the House to observe a minute's recollection in memory of the victims of the tragic railway accident in Puglia a year ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u11	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2856. She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating stems from the decline in vaccination membership and it is an act - I say this clearly - of great responsibility on the part of the Government and Parliament, an act of responsibility, of taking care and of defending a constitutional right such as the right to health. It is a measure which, in its parliamentary passage, has engaged the Health Commission in important hearings for more than a month and which has produced important improvements in the text that has come to this House since the hearings. We have taken into account the issues raised by promoting a conscious use of vaccinations, and at the same time, alongside the mandatory vaccinations, through the modulation of the three-year verification on a group of vaccines, we have worked and will continue to work for the conscious adherence to vaccinations themselves. We have also reinforced pharmacovigilance, which is the national vaccine registry, which is not only a technical computer act, but the main tool for the Government to know about the vaccination system; a basic tool for the transparency of the journey and for the data of adverse events. We have overcome the issue of reporting to the court of minors and reduced sanctions, together with the right to education and thus access to school. At the same time, we have strengthened the information and training path for all health and school staff on vaccination. This is important, because it means that we are giving ourselves a way based on information and training that makes all operators capable of an individualized and personalized take-up of parents' requests and their right to confront uncertainties and to have information and reassurances. Although I am faced with such a profoundly important and improved measure, it strikes me very much that the content of the debate accompanying it in this Parliament is a revealing of the limits and dangers expressed by attitudes of political forces which, in a continuous attempt to delegitimize the Government and the majority (because this is their way of doing politics), do not hesitate to use arguments without scientific foundation and not proven by numbers, but based only on conspiracy and destructive attitudes that attempt, in a scientific way, to break the bond of credibility and trust between citizens and institutions. This is done in a subtle way by nourishing the contradiction between the right, the freedom of individual choice and the responsibility towards the community, which are instead two sides of the same coin. I say this very clearly: I have the certainty that the same people who today use the argument of the opposition of individual freedom are those who, when talking about civil unions and the right to freely choose who they love, voted against. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Elena]] I guess it will be the same that, when we talk about the early statements of treatment (DAT), they will say that in that case individual choice and freedom do not apply. This is a revealing debate - politics and institutions must take this into account - that shows how much oppositions are weakening our democratic system on the issues contained in the decree. For example, the value of science, autonomy between science and politics, is being questioned. On the contrary, it is good to remember that science and the freedom of scientific research are the driving force behind the development of society and today more than ever it must be said very clearly that science is the first strong antidote to the winds of demagogy. Unfortunately, we are in a country that pays for the lack of training in science, i.e. the proven and repeatable assessments of the unproved opinions and in which there is an increasingly strong propensity to listen, rather than the methodological and scientific knowledge, to the bombers and the theories of conspiracy. It would be worth remembering the Di Bella and Vannoni cases. With regard to the inability to conceive and practice the autonomy of science from politics, I have seen a series of amendments in which, from time to time, from the list of compulsory vaccines were removed or introduced some: via the antipoly, inside the meningococco; via the diphtheria and inside the rotavirus. Ladies and gentlemen, the sense of the limit and autonomy between science and politics is fundamental and we should learn to practice it. I am not proposing the subalternity of politics to science; I am reaffirming that it is the role and duty of politics to give answers to the right of citizens (so of all of us) to have the tools of control, of data transparency, of the certainty of the safety of care, therefore also of those vaccinations. The measure under consideration, also thanks to the important amending work carried out in the Commission, offers important answers exactly to these issues, which correspond to the issues raised by the citizens. I have already spoken of the Vaccine Registry as a tool of the Government, but I would like to point out that in Article 1 we have strengthened the pharmacovigilance issue, because it is very clear that the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA), in collaboration with the Higher Institute of Health and using a scientific and technical committee specifically integrated by independent experts without conflicts of interest, will have to report annually to Parliament on the results of pharmacovigilance and on the data of adverse events for which an association with vaccines has been confirmed. I would also like to say that a research carried out by the Centre for Social Investment Studies (Censis) repeated over the years reveals a difficulty in the vaccination culture that had established itself over time. Basically, the Censis states that two elements have broken the vaccine culture: on the one hand, the fact that the National Health System considered it an automatism and did not understand that it was necessary to strengthen the culture of prevention and its organization; on the other hand, direct access to health information, especially through the Internet with its infinite potential. In fact, 40% of parents who participated in the Censis survey said they had found information on the Internet and all represented the subject of vaccination as a negative element; moreover, only a quarter of parents indicate vaccinations as a fundamental element of the prevention strategy, which is considered to depend for 84 percent on healthy nutrition, for 34 percent on the use of vitamins and supplements and for 56 percent on physical activity. There is therefore a senseless opposition, because prevention is done by both. The lack of a vaccine culture emerges from research and we also find an important response to this. In fact, the awareness of the importance of the information and training of all those who are impacting on the subject of vaccination, from the health world to the school world and in particular the parents, has found a very important response in the formulation of the text of Article 2, which is entirely dedicated to this topic. Information initiatives are planned to illustrate and promote among the whole population, in particular among practitioners of health, education and education professions, specific training, also in collaboration with general medical doctors, pediatricians and pharmacists of the territory. Within schools this will also be done by involving (because we are particularly interested) parents, their associations, as well as health associations. We are convinced that the theme of parents' accompaniment to answer their doubts, questions and their right to know, to be sure of safety, is also answered in another important element of novelty introduced by parliamentary work. I am referring to the assignment to counselors of the competence to support parenthood, so also to the issue of prevention and the culture of vaccination from the moment when a couple chooses to have a child. It is precisely an accompaniment, an individualized take-over. This is a fundamental point. I shall conclude with a reflection, Madam President. We have talked about many issues, but little about the right of minors. I remember that minors, as is reiterated in all international conventions that Italy has also signed but not always practiced, are subjects of autonomous law and in this case are holders of the right to health, which is exercised through the parents who are its legal representatives. Let it be clear, however, that parents are not free to decide the health of a child as their own, but must respect the principle of the child's own greater interest, without personal choices or opinions prevail over it. I remember that in 2014 the country's power was replaced by parental responsibility. This parental responsibility must be helped and accompanied precisely through this passage of training and information and this individualized take charge, starting from a path that reassures parents on the certainty of care, remembering that vaccines are to date the safest drug. So this is exactly what this is about: supporting the right to health and having a debate, including within this Parliament, based on scientific evidence and not popular beliefs. And politics is exactly this: recognizing, evaluating and upholding the right to health, which is an individual right and a collective right, especially at a time when we live - quoting Baumann - in a liquid society, where individualism prevails. On the other hand, we must value the individual ability of people to demand their rights, but knowing how to link them to a collective responsibility, because only if there is social cohesion, only if these two aspects live together, can we be able to respond to the thousand problems of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u15	Madam President, illustrious senators, senators, the debate on the decree-law in conversion on vaccinations suffers from an unmistakable, stunned and preconceived manipulation of the healthy combination that must exist between the political dimension and biomedical sciences. A totally inappropriate contrast, because it includes the theme in a field of confrontation and preconceived antithesis, until the dissemination of incorrect information, from which they can achieve, for lack of vaccination, even fatal outcomes for the lives of people. And of these outcomes the supporters of this culture must take responsibility. Vaccinations do not have, must not, nor can they have the color of a party or movement, of one part or another. They do not belong to one, nor do they belong to the other. They are a great scientific achievement for the health of every single person and the community. They run in this time, permeated with fake news, also defined the "rooms of the echo" or the "information bubbles," where to someone who shouts so many naively follow and echo, surprising questions, I would say also very worrying, up to a statement of such fact: it is better to avoid vaccinations. It is clear that the opposition to vaccinations has become for some, and I fear in recent times naively for many, a flag with gloomy colors and with few and confused ideas, as well as completely misleading. I note that it was well done, in the course of the discussion that characterized the work of the 12th Commission, to emphasize repeatedly that the decree-law has its scientific foundation and that, through the political responsibility of the Senate now and of the House subsequently, it needs a rapid conversion into law. The subject of vaccinations is scientific, even above all. The high level of vaccination coverage observed in Italy up to 2012 for vaccinations covered by national programmes or widespread regional programmes and more clearly for compulsory vaccinations has resulted in a significant decrease in the incidence of preventable vaccination diseases. And I emphasize "significant decrease," which has a scientific argumentation weight. It therefore requires skills and rigorous arguments, for the true characteristics of these, which should always be the guide in a political debate. A policy without a specific basic culture, without awareness and rigour of the foundations is transformed into empty and dangerous propaganda; dangerous both because it pollutes the debate and because it ends up frustrating the recognition of a fundamental right. And health is a fundamental right. In the debate on compulsory vaccinations, two rights are recalled: health and education, both guaranteed by the Constitution; however, these two rights have a different scope. Article 34 of the Constitution states that school is open to all and the right to education is a social right that must be guaranteed to all. In this regard, I believe that a preliminary appreciation is needed for the work carried out, in harmony, in collaboration, with a calmness of objectives and with argumentative rigour, by the Health and Health Commission and with the Government, represented by Minister Lorenzin, aimed at mitigating sanctions, also with the approval of an amendment to which I am a signatory. Other, perhaps even better to define it prior and preliminary, is the right to health. In Italian law, it is recognised by Article 32 of the Constitution: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community. Therefore, health is not to be protected in the subjectivity of the individual person, but in the individual that is realized in a community and that, in the co-interest of the pursuit of health, comes to decline what is called a common good. The right to health can therefore be attributed, in a purely legal context, to the category of inviolable rights enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution, as protection of the psychic and physical integrity of man against any threat from the external environment. It is classified as the most important of the social rights referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, since it makes it possible to enjoy the rights of freedom. Said in a more mediatically perceptible way, there is no freedom if there is no recognition of life; it is the prior value, that of life, that gives us the possibility of being able to realize any other right. Health, therefore, is not only a primary right of the individual, but also a primary interest of the community. To this end, there is provision for both direct measures to cure and to prevent diseases. It is in this constitutional framework that vaccinations are written, precisely as a right and duty in the interests of the individual and the community in the primary prevention of diseases. This prevention, which is referred to through vaccinations, consists of a series of interventions aimed at promoting and maintaining the state of well-being and avoiding the emergence of diseases, at the level of individuals, communities and the environment. And the objectives of the decree-law are specifically aimed at giving a response to four of these points: protecting the individual; controlling diseases in the population; restricting diseases; and possibly eroding them. Vaccinations protect against serious diseases and are one of the most effective and safest interventions in public health. To claim the opposite means to cancel the scientific research and the successes that have been achieved through vaccinations that, for eminent researchers, scientists, medical historians and for all, represent one of the most tangible signs of the progress of medicine along with antibiotics. Thanks to vaccinations, the incidence of many serious diseases has drastically decreased. But if optimal vaccine covers are not maintained, some diseases that are eliminated or become rare can quickly reappear, because the infectious agents that cause them continue to circulate around the world. In addition to reducing mortality and morbidity related to avoided infectious diseases, the effectiveness of vaccinations is also evident in terms of reducing health expenditure. If vaccination, as provided for, requires about 15 euros per person, the amount that should be made available for the onset of the disease is far greater than 15 euros per person. In Italy, all levels of vaccination coverage for highly contagious diseases are currently below the acceptable standard of 95 percent. Simply recall the lowest vaccine coverage, which refers to vaccination against chickenpox, which is just 46.1 percent, while the majority of all do not reach even 95 percent. To say that it is necessary to resort to compulsory vaccination only in the event of an epidemic is not only very serious, but - let me use an expression that may seem strong in this House - it means completely ignoring the fundamentals of the meaning of vaccination. For example, it means: we stop polio vaccination, because for several years in Italy we have no local outbreaks, nor generalized epidemics, waiting to resume it in case of epidemics or widespread epidemics. So, only after children and others contract polio, we will decide - perhaps - to translate vaccination from advisable to mandatory. Maybe we will have to wait for something more to make vaccinations compulsory and not only recommended, for example the occurrence of some deaths also related to the contagion of certain diseases and, therefore, the death of some. I know that not only the Members of this House are listening to us right now, but so many of those people who have raised the flag of no vax. These people must know in a very, very serious way that on their skin and on their not knowing you are playing a political game that to me and so many of us absolutely does not belong. We cannot resort to vaccination alone and when, as I said before, there will be deaths or the spread of serious polio disabilities. Know that the culture that is spreading would lead to these consequences. Then there is something quite original and ludicrous that I would like to bring to your attention, colleagues. Some argue that the best immunization would be secondary to the "physiological" transmission of the disease, without resorting to vaccinations, which would be dangerous. In other words, the presence at school of the child suffering from chickenpox or measles is desirable, so that, physiologically, he transmits the disease to the other classmates, so that everyone can normally immunize themselves through the contagion. This theory intrigued me considerably for a very simple reason. It seemed to me to be a very important novelty. After so many years of study done in the field of research, it has aroused a great attention (I do not say worry, because you can only smile, with good southern irony) in the biomedical world and scientific research. At this point, a problem has arisen. If there is a child in the class who has other problems (for example, is in an immunodepressant situation or suffers from a disease that would not give him the chance to get out of the contracted disease) what happens? What about the baby? Also, let's forget another detail, which I think is important to know. I am referring to data from the authoritative scientific research or, more correctly, the authoritativeness of published and validated studies. If we want to remember only measles, in children who contract measles there is a complication called encephalitis, which occurs in one case every thousand. Death for measles occurs every 2,000 or 3,000 cases. There is also another complication, which someone forgets, for children who have contracted measles without vaccination: one case every 1,300-2,000 will lead to the so-called subacutive sclerosing pancephalitis; for those who do not know about it, I think it is appropriate, before making rash statements, at least to evaluate the literature in this regard. Another observation has been made, which has intrigued me considerably and which refers to a Region of Italy where it is believed that the use of vaccination obligation is unconstitutional, and that a vaccination cover has already been reached such and appropriate to prevent the use of obligatory. Well, the curiosity of those who have done research and scientific didactics for many years has led him to make a reflection and has seen that in that Region - you have perfectly understood that I am referring to Veneto - there have been, from January to today, 200 cases of measles, on a total population of 5 million inhabitants. I have made a reflection and an evaluation of comparison with other realities, because on this is based scientific research and epidemiology. In Sweden, there is a population that is double (10 million inhabitants) but 97 percent of vaccine coverage is registered, not mandatory (because they have a maturity such that they do not need the obligatory to vaccinate); guess and give a random number of cases of measles there were: with double the population, from January 2017 to the end of June 2017 there were 12 cases. What can all this mean? It means that the size of the obligation obviously goes to compensate for a deficiency due to a lack of vaccine coverage, where there was no obligation, but only the recommendability of vaccination. This provision, therefore, has its own social ethics and its own scientific foundation. I also heard a few facts in yesterday's debate on measles cases dating back to 27 May 2017; perhaps it is better to update ourselves when speaking in this House on certain subjects. Well, for measles in Italy, with data updated to 4 July 2017, there were 3,346 cases and, among them, two deaths unfortunately debitable and attributable to missing vaccinations. Those who say that we must not immunize ourselves, those who say that compulsoryness does not meet ethical criteria, must assume responsibility for these deaths. But then there are also, as I said before, the so-called information bubbles, a sort of fake news, which seems to be very widespread. In the face of excessive diffusion, many naively believe that these respond to truth, without making an assessment on the basis and without verifying whether there is a data that can be scientifically valid. It is said that improved hygiene and health measures will erode diseases and therefore vaccines are not necessary. Absolutely false; if it were so simple it would be enough to resort to the most basic hygiene standards and there would be no more transmission of viruses and bacteria. Perhaps a few small studies in the field of infectivology and microbiology I think it is appropriate to do so. If we had solved all the problems, we would have found the panacea of many pathologies. Another false news: vaccines are associated with several long-term harmful effects, which are still unknown, and vaccinations can also be fatal. There is a contradiction in terms: it is said that they can be linked to any negative effects, which are not known, but, as they are unknowable and not predictable, they lose in themselves their substance of argumentative order. If they're not familiar, let me see what the effects can be. I do not go into detail because obviously the time available does not allow me to deal specifically with the individual issues. I'm going quickly to quote more false news. It is said that the combined vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus and cough and hepatitis would be responsible for the cradle death syndrome, but that is absolutely not true: there is no scientific research that puts them in correlation and has highlighted this relationship. I quote another false news: in our country vaccines preventable diseases are almost eradicated, so there is no reason to undergo vaccination. This is the example I made earlier: we wait for polio to come, and then we decide, if necessary, to make the vaccine. I would like to mention another interesting detail: it has been said that vaccines contain mercury, which is dangerous. This is completely false. I was very surprised to hear a list made in yesterday's sitting when, in a general discussion speech, it was said that in the composition of vaccines there is plastic and there is mercury, as if it were a refusal of urban clarity, without specifying that within any pharmaceutical composition there are ingredients, additives and other substances, that I would not stand here to indicate and that they are necessary for their production. Well, with regard to a possible correlation between mercury and autism, we know that the author of this publication has been disbarred, that the publication has been withdrawn from the Lancet and that it was a fake, with intent, that it did not correspond absolutely to truth. I can argue that what I am saying is not enough. Well, studies have never shown a causal correlation between vaccines containing mercury and autism or anomalies affecting the central nervous system, the incidence of which - this is important - has remained unchanged even after the elimination of the conservative vaccines, which would be mercury itself. I could continue again, because in these days, unfortunately, dramatically, many fake news are launched, supported by absolutely unvalidated pseudo-scientific publications, which do not find even a minimum of homeland within the framework of "PubMed" or in any case indexed magazines, which are specialized and to which are certainly ascribable correctness and rigor. Minister, Senators, I would like to thank you once again for your work within the Health and Health Commission, President De Biasi, Senator Manassero, you, Minister, and all those who have cooperated with great sobriety, prudence and rigour, trying, for once, to give a scientific foundation - as it is and must be - to a measure which must not be based on demagogy and ideology. In fact, electoral campaigns can also be lost: I do not think it is appropriate to obtain a possible re-enactment when intellectual honesty has been cancelled and has speculated on the naivety and good faith of so many people. If that is the purpose of some, I wish them good luck! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u16	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have really managed to make a masterpiece because you have turned prophylaxis into a war. You've made parents pass over worried about misguided or incapable parents, when, in fact, I think the most significant aspect, that no one can deny, is that a parent for his child wants the best. You have transformed common sense, which guides parents in the care of their children, into a radical, continuous and firm dissent. I think it is really ridiculous that a legislative assembly should become a platform for scientific debate and I do not want to go into this. I think there are two principles in research and medicine. The first principle is the socratic one, so I know I do not know; research always starts from this assumption and any self-referential position leads to the failure of research. The other principle of medicine is that each individual has a specificity. Everyone, especially every child, has the right to specific and individual attention. The automatism provided by the decree-law to our examination, the impact, violence and aggressiveness of the obligatory sanctions and the very way to dispose of sanctions are all except the recognition of the principle of not knowing to invest in research, to send it forward and be attentive to the specificity of the health of every child and, therefore, to the respect of those who take care of it. It is a brutal way of replacing parents, worthy of some past twenty years, and it is to be rejected. What I have heard in this House, the medical-patient alliance that has been invoked (and which happens to always be invoked when you want to reject the responsibility of the patient's care in terms of spending), is denied here. It is an arrogant approach that is established by a government that would claim to have the authority and credibility to do so, but it obviously does not have them and not only for this measure, but for a long theory of measures. The reaction to this will be negative, because it will produce a dispute. As a member of the Committee on Justice, I have the opportunity to observe all the damage caused by the increase in litigation, and I would like it to be remembered where the litigation originated. It also originated from this. There is another particularly important aspect that I would like to highlight today, since we are listening to so many people, and which is closely concerned with the legislative process: once again, in a serious and particularly opaque way, we have seen the veto power that is allowed to the Budget Commission. The Budgetary Committee has shown a very particular attitude to the measure we are examining, because it has completely wiped out the proposals for amendments, which have been tabled very cross-cuttingly by all oppositions, with comments which are not justified and without transparency. When we veto excessive expenditure on a proposal to reduce the number of compulsory vaccinations, we lose all credibility. Therefore, a non-transparent budget committee, a veto on expenditure and a clear lack of attention, even with regard to the content of the amendments, make us understand that all legislative activity is not only not really aware of the current needs, even in terms of the care of children's health, which should theoretically allow a certain margin of expenditure, but is maneuvered in a certain direction making it impossible for senators to express themselves because of a blockade imposed by other Commissions, so - I repeat - not transparent. I hope that we will have a chance to return to what has been done about the school. You must know, in fact, that among the proposals for amendments there will also be the one, made in the Commission, to amend the title. In the decree-law, which according to our Constitution should have characteristics of homogeneity of matter and urgency, elements were inserted which forced the rapporteur to request the change of title. I hope that we will have the opportunity, when considering the amendments, to go into the substance of these particularities which have been included in the measure. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u18	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u19	Madam President, I would just like to make a brief introduction to remind you that yesterday the Democratic Party government gave 17 billion euros of citizens to a private bank: a year of citizenship income to restore two of the many banks that you have splintered. Having said that, let us enter into the substance, to say that it took seventeen days between the announcement of the decree-law and its publication: seventeen days during which one imagines that the decree was evaluated, weighed, perfected, made impeccable. Instead, none of this. There is a text in the Commission, which is being discussed, which deals with issues and amendments are being approved. In the meantime, there is an amendment by the rapporteur which rewrites Article 1, which is at the heart of the measure; but it is not yet in place, and it is being submitted. Then others arrive and history repeats itself several times. The rapporteur's last amendment is dated Monday evening, the last sitting of the Commission, and we are discussing this. Then we learn that the Budget Commission did not approve some of the amendments included in that text. So we are all discussing a text which is not what we will then have to think about with regard to the amendments that we will then be tabling in this House. During this period, however, scientists who advise the Minister are convinced that twelve compulsory vaccines are too many. Up to ten. Maybe because, at nighttime, science has changed? Wow, what sudden discoveries! At the same time, four recommended vaccinations are added, of which two are those that were previously mandatory. What have these scientists discovered to downgrade them from mandatory to recommended? The reduction from twelve to ten compulsory vaccines shows that what had been advertised as absolute, as science, for the sake of children becomes relative; then why not nine, eight or seven vaccines? Mr. Undersecretary, I'm curious. I tried to find that answer, but I couldn't find it. You know, Mr. Undersecretary, I'm a doctor, and the doctor is the first person to give answers to the citizens he advises to vaccinate. I put my face on it, but you have to give me convincing answers; otherwise, you put your face on those parents! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that the measure that came out of the Commission is profoundly wrong in its general approach, because in the health field it is essential that the two elements (individual, on the one hand, and public health, on the other) meet on the same level without one prevaricating on the other. The right of the person and the general interest are compatible and it is up to the Government to strike a fair balance. In this case, the government's choice is to impose vaccinations, since it is not able to move to find the right balance of this complex society. Look for the short way, turning against society itself with the excuse to protect the individual. This method is completely wrong, as the most recent literature points out, the famous evidence-based medicine. The 2017 Cochrane meta-analysis analyzes thirty-eight international publications and collects the opinions and experiences of parents about the information provided at the time of the vaccination of children routinaria: it is the way and the words in which the information is communicated to influence the decisions of parents regarding the vaccination of children. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] Parents want to be informed in time. They want to find medical personnel available and prepared to answer their doubts and fears. A health worker available to open and respectful discussions with them, carefully, sensitively, unjudged, creating an environment conducive to decision-making. They expect the health care professional to have the child's interest at heart and not to be driven by financial incentives. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Basically, the parent well informed by a credible professional accepts the advice or, better, the recommendation to vaccination. The obligation removes vaccination and this is evidence-based medicine. Therefore, much work must be done on the credibility and authority of both health professionals and institutions, which this decree does not do. This decree does not put resources in the health world. You have demolished the districts and in certain areas vaccinations are concentrated in a few hours, monthly or bimonthly, often in dilapidated places, with workloads that do not allow that dialogue. In front of a concerned parent, rather than taking him by the hand and accompanying him on a difficult but reassuring path, why is that therapeutic alliance between the citizen and the institutions, what do you do? Obliged to take a procedure, under penalty of non-registration to the school of the childhood and administratively sanctioned with 3,500 euros of fine, something will create dozens of appeals to the courts, clogging them. This decree-law leaves open many spaces in which lawyers can enter, broadening the time and allowing, among other things, parents to spend less than fines that you sanction. So, in addition to the damage the joke: we won't have vaccine cover and we'll have the courts clogged. Really genius! This dullness of behavior has led to denying legitimate citizens demands, such as the remodulation of the executive scheme of vaccinations. Why not move rubella vaccination to teenage girls only? I asked this question to several experts in the Commission during the hearings but no one answered me. We talk about personalized medicine, but not for the administration of vaccines. It is interesting to note that by September 10 of this year parents will have to submit to school the documentation of the actual vaccinations, while from the year 2019-2020 the system will be simplified (word of great effect, but from the opposite meaning when written in a norm). Why not scale the application over time? I am referring to an amendment which has been rejected by the Budget Committee. I would like to stress what attention this Government has to non-vaccined children: it asks all health and school staff to submit appropriate certification about the vaccination status to the competent doctor of the facility, who will assess how and whether to immunize under Law No. 81 of 2008 to protect the worker and consequently and indirectly of the children. Too bad he forgets to ask his parents, aunts, grandparents, cousins, to vaccinate. And the bus driver, don't we consider him? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] As we said before, to force parents to vaccinate their children, you had to come up with the school block. And so, in the face of more work done by the operators, some funds have been found, but they have been moved from the Fund to improve the training supply. I would like to say that we will have a little less educated but vaccinated children. However, don't worry, because the government has thought of initiatives to inform both school staff and pupils, allocating the incredible amount of 200,000 euros. I shall conclude by saying that it is time for the citizen to be put back in the centre. I have already written this in the motion on screening: we must encourage the disciplined citizen, the one who respects the rules, who believes in social and accepts a risk, albeit small, for a social vision; citizen - I repeat - not subject. It is time to facilitate a social deontology centered on the duty to health on the part of the citizen to be understood not as an obligation of law but as a moral obligation that, as such, preludes to a free, responsible and conscious choice. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] The Italians, dear Undersecretary, are ready. Unfortunately, you don't. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups and Senators Candiani and Ricchiuti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u21	Madam President, in the meantime I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues from the Health Commission, Mrs Manassero, the President of the Commission and of course the Government for the very thorough work that has been done in the Health Commission over the last few weeks in reading, deepening and really unbelievably distorting the measure that we are examining today. This listening work, which has not only been the listening of the Commission's staff, has led us to numerous hearings which have seen the presence of representatives of science, institutions, associations of citizens and parents (those who are in favour of vaccines and those who are doubtful or unfavorable). The opinions, which have been transformed into the decisions we have taken, are not only the result of the sharing of the measure that the Government has adopted at a difficult time, of urgency, which has not been declared by a sudden evaluation of someone, but which has been and is being urged by the World Health Organization for more than three years now, because the state of vaccinations in Italy is extremely worrying. I do not want to repeat the list of issues, statistical data and numbers, which have been extensively reported in this House by the rapporteur and many speakers. I give them now for hiring in our collective awareness. However, I wonder how we can say in this House, knowing the issues, that the decree-law in our examination has transformed prophylaxis into war. I believe that, in reality, on the part of someone, the need to review and update prophylaxis, which is another thing, has turned into war. I think that we take on a huge responsibility by fighting the implementation of this measure in the face of certainties that science indicates to us; in this field we can in fact afford to have opinions, to ask for changes, to wage battles for our opinions, provided that we do not go to touch the scientific truths. Today I welcome these truths from the organizations that at world level have the stamp of scientificity and for what concerns our country, from the indications that are given to us by the Higher Institute of Health. We must communicate to Italian citizens that these institutions have the responsibility to offer Italian citizens scientific truths. We do not have this responsibility and this capacity and we cannot have the arrogance to assume them. Then, in the discussion that we opened not only in the institutional places, but also in the places that saw us participate in confrontations with the citizens, we shared the rightness of some modifications, improving the decree-law, which intervened on issues to which politics is called to give an answer and not on scientific interpretation. I would like to remind everyone that on urgency and necessity there is a call to our country to intervene, which comes not only at the Italian level. I think it does not please any Italian citizen to know that the indication that is given by authoritative institutions of foreign countries is not to come to Italy because there is the danger of measles epidemics, and not only. We know that vaccinations have been and are safe health practices; on this point there is absolute certainty. So we can't use the topic of adverse events that can happen when you're vaccinated, but that can happen even if we take a painkiller or if we do a puncture because we have a back pain. Unfortunately, this can happen. In this measure, however, we have asked that there be greater transparency also with respect to the issue of adverse events, but this cannot be, exactly as I said before, the element that can lead us to ignore the importance and the necessity of the so-called cover of flock, of which our country at this time has necessity and urgency. Especially in the interventions of those who see this measure as an element of negativity and represents the dissent of a part of the Italian citizens (which is a minority for which I am concerned) have been remembered these many parents and these many families, with whom - I think many of us have done so - I have had the opportunity to speak. On the basis of their dissent, often there is no knowledge of the issues, but the exchange of news about social media and the media or ideas and opinions learned in a confrontation between people for a scientific truth. We have talked a lot about these people in this House but I have heard little about the huge number of families and parents asking us to approve the measure soon because their children, who have very serious diseases and cannot be vaccinated, live a life of isolation. They cannot go to school, they cannot have opportunities for social relations and they grow up in a relational isolation that certainly is not good for those children and our society. We spoke very little about these families and children. I believe that we should talk about them and that we should take on one of the many responsibilities that lead us to support this decree-law with deep conviction. I was very impressed by the brief intervention that Senator Buemi made yesterday when he recalled that his generation, which is what I belong to, had the opportunity, for the first time, to vaccinate against polio. I was also a little girl in those years and, unfortunately, I happened to witness painfully the illness that struck a friend of mine with games. Twenty days after this painful event that had brought that family into the drama, in the village where I lived and grew up came the opportunity to undergo polio vaccination, which was then - if I am not mistaken - the Salk vaccine and was paid, which therefore did not allow all families to get close to vaccination. I remember with great emotion and tenderness - feelings that today become even stronger in me - the reaction of my mother who, in the face of the opportunity to afford vaccination for her daughter, seemed to have really conquered the world. I think we need to think about this. I believe that we have a great responsibility not to give the measure responsibility that it does not have and, that is, to want to remove families from vaccination with the vaccination obligation. It's the opposite. It is true that each of us would have preferred that in Italy we did not reach a level of non-vaccine coverage such as that achieved in recent years and clearly all of us would have wanted the vaccine coverage to be the spontaneous response of the citizens' membership. This was not the case, and it probably also depended on the fact that as a result of vaccination many of these diseases have disappeared in our collective perception, making many believe that there was no longer any need to vaccinate. We therefore have an emergency to respond to in this respect. With the important work of comparison and deepening that we have carried out, changes have been made to the decree-law in question that have improved the text, maintaining the fundamental principle of obligatoryness which is part of the reasoning that I have carried out so far. We have asked - and in this respect the decree-law is clear - for greater transparency than the whole process and the strengthening of pharmacovigilance, for timely information and constant verification of vaccination data throughout the year and for Parliament to be informed accordingly. We have responsibly improved this measure for the whole area of citizens' rights to information and their ability to be facilitated in compliance with the vaccination obligation. With reference to the reasoning that is being made about the drama of the great overfatigue of practices and bureaucratic paths to which citizens would be subjected in order to correspond to this obligation, I would like to say that an ASL of the Lazio Region has signed exactly ten days ago a protocol of understanding with the regional school office in order to make absolutely transmissible via telematics between the two institutional subjects everything regarding the accession and the vaccination state of the children and the children who will attend the school. I therefore believe that this also serves to call to greater organizational responsibility our institutions which, when they want, are in a position to be able to fulfil this role. I believe this is a great measure of civilization on which we have worked together; I imagine that this House will improve it further and I am deeply convinced that I have contributed to a growth of civilization for the right to health of Italian citizens and especially of children and girls. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u23	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I shall use the 'European' times for this speech, not because we are in the European Parliament, but because the time of the debate reserved for the Groups is suspended by the Rules of Procedure, of course hoping that these times (which are 48 minutes for the Italian Force Group) will be interpreted in a very flexible manner, as I see the Presidency is doing at this moment. And it is clear that I will leave it to my fellow Members, Mr Zuffada and Mr Rizzotti, to take specific action on the substance. I shall confine myself to talking about the difficult communication between the people and the government, between Parliament itself and the people - it is widely taken for granted - and about information on what is defined by all one of the most important factors in medicine, namely prevention. I recall that the Minister himself, speaking of prevention during the discussion of the important topic of the sustainability of the National Health System, with particular reference to the guarantee of the principles of universality, solidarity and equity, in the context of a cognitive survey carried out by the Health Commission, had noted the great importance of the resources to be allocated to health; resources - as we know - for a long time scarce and every year lower than those of the previous year, which have ended up loading the Health System of additional burdens, such as new drugs, new diagnostic techniques, the need to renew the equipment within hospitals and to revise their building system. Prevention, according to the Minister, was not about spending, but about investing, which makes a lot in the medium and long term. This, in a nutshell, was the Minister's speech at his hearing in 2013. I must say, with more reference to time, that in 2016 the general directive for administrative activity and management was issued by the Ministry of Health, which reads as follows: The promotion of health and the protection of the person's psychophysical well-being require cross-sectoral and cross-cutting strategies in which central and local institutions and civil society are involved. This appears necessary to develop integrated policies and to act on key health determinants. The same text continues later: Moreover, it cannot be ignored that in 2016 the important - and they had guessed us - migratory movements that are affecting the country and that require specific actions for the protection of individual and collective health will probably be intensified. On the other hand, actions to disturb anti-vaccinist groups could be further accentuated in relation to government action aimed at consolidating vaccine cover, also in view of the migratory influx cited, often from areas where the health system has failed to ensure adequate vaccination rates. This said the Ministry of Health in the General Directive for Administrative Activity and Management in 2016. The Ministry, therefore, was fully aware of what would happen not only by confirming the number of vaccines present, but even by increasing the number of vaccines made mandatory. But I come further, saying that the Ministry itself made necessary the activity of communication and institutional information, having this a strategic role in the matter of health, as it aimed to strengthen a better knowledge, a greater awareness of the population, in general, and to favor, in particular, the adoption of lifestyles and healthy behaviors. Now, this is what has been absolutely lacking from the Ministry, from the Minister, from the Government. There are rather onerous innovations for the citizen - I mean onerous in terms of not economic, but of the time and responsibility that each parent feels - without giving the necessary information, without hearing in the Commission, from the Higher Institute of Health, a useful and satisfactory response regarding the increased risk for the population in the transition from six to twelve vaccines (then we were talking about twelve vaccines). If the Ministry repented within its organization the need to make a promotional campaign also on social forums as well as in the press, and gave it as a starting point in 2016, I wonder why today we are discussing the campaign of expansion of the number of compulsory vaccines having still ignorance - I use this term - or the lack of knowledge - maybe it is a better term - than the whole context that the new provisions involve. I am sure there are no risks for the population with new vaccinations, but I am also sure that it is enough to share about government action by the population, which has the right to be informed and the Government has the duty to give information. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u24	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u25	Madam President, the public debate on vaccines expresses a polarization that has increasingly transformed scientific discourse into an ideological plea, that is, a false representation of reality, a problem - we might say - almost epistemological. On the one hand, the vaccine is seen by anti-vaccinists as the result of a conspiracy of pharmaceutical companies and powerful powers against public health; on the other, there is a media campaign that announces the return of the bubonic black plague to mean and then justify the decree of urgency and compulsory mass health treatment; a position which, however, declined badly and structured worse, has placed the righteous on the wrong side. The result of this confrontation is a great disorientation, a great fear in the social body, which undermines conscious information and the right to health. That the credibility of the political class is at the very least historic is known to all. This distrust, however, affects not only political representatives, but every institution that is directly or indirectly linked to them. Medical and health institutions are no exception. If you no longer believe in the doctor, then, simplifying, you look for answers in the Net with the illusion of hearing all the bells and having an easy thought. But it's not like that. The Network is a universal tool of easy and economic accessibility, but it is not a democratic and reliable tool of information, but the exact opposite, because it sectoralizes, specializes, indexes and reproposes exactly what each of us wants to be heard; practically we are led cognitively to give weight to the news that confirm our thesis and our prejudices. The Net is full of fake news, often well paid. The debate on the Net is the playing field of trolls and haters, where the opinion of a blogger has the same weight, often greater, of those who publish in scientific journals. Antivax, freevax, Provax, curious, convinced, skeptical or doubtful in the virtual world proceed without control by strengthening their opinions. In order to address the issue of vaccines, instead (such as immigration or security), we must start to equip ourselves with tools and methods, that can begin to distinguish the perception of reality from reality itself; an issue - as I said - epistemological, because it is a question of confronting the bases of knowledge. Medicine is not an exact science and, in the incessant research activity that concerns it, it is not uncommon for a new study to deny a thesis previously given for sure. This activity is called scientific progress, but it must take place within the scientific community, that is, it must be done by scientists, using the methods proper to science, and the results must be accredited by official bodies, such as scientific journals, universities and other institutions that guarantee its correctness. Righteousness must not be confused with infallibility, as it is simply the admission that, at a given historical moment, this is the frontier reached by science. When discussing health policies, in fact, it is not possible to ignore what science has come to define as certain, even if one day it will be denied or supplemented by other discoveries. It is from here that we must start with any comparison; otherwise the result of the discussion would be a clash of opinions that would remain irreducible, insolvable and inverifiable. And we're almost getting to that result. We can certainly understand the right reasons for the adoption of the decree-law in question because, when there is an address at the level of the World Health Organization, Europe and Italy in managing public health, a Minister has the responsibility to do prevention. The vaccination does not act in emergency, precisely because it is a non-emergency tool, but prevention. As immunity falls, I can assume that there are easy epidemic focal points and, therefore, a spread of cases with complications, costs and mortality attached. However, an obligation set incorrectly, without a conscious consent, does not go very far. What worries me is not the fall of the government or the imposition of trust, but the health of all of us. We must bear in mind that, while we have seen in Europe over the last two decades a 96% reduction in measles cases and that we are one step away from eliminating the disease, we have seen a 500 percent increase in cases. We must therefore respond collectively and without further delay. I recognise that among the cases of measles referred to by the authority, with the aim of eradicating it - according to the World Health Organization was to be eradicated in 2015 - in Italy only in 2014 there were 1,674 cases, with a greater incidence recorded precisely in children under five years of age. Hospitalisation was also required for one in three patients. Of those who contracted the disease 91 percent had not been vaccinated, while 7.6 percent had received only one dose of vaccine. The World Health Organization identifies the cause of the recurrent measles epidemics precisely in the increase in the number of parents who do not vaccinate their children. The Higher Institute of Health recently released the vaccination coverage data recorded in 2014 for several infectious diseases, with reference to the age group of twenty-four months (i.e. those born in 2012). The 24-month measles vaccine coverage increased from 90.3 in 2013 to 86.6 percent in 2014. Although this may seem a still high percentage, it is actually still far from the 95% set by the National Vaccine Prevention Plan. Under 95 percent, the number of people exposed to contagion becomes high enough to allow pathogens to spread within the population during an epidemic. In other words, the famous immunity of flock disappears, i.e. the protection indirectly enjoyed by non-immune subjects, such as children who have not yet reached the age of vaccination, or adults who have never developed immunity. Since the MPR vaccine is administered against measles, which also immunizes against mumps and rubella, the population coverage is also inadequate for these two diseases. The most up-to-date data show that vaccine coverage begins to shrink for other infectious diseases as well. Numbers vary from Region to Region, but in 2014 national average coverages for polio, diphtheria, cough and hepatitis b have all fallen, albeit slightly, below 95 percent. The analysis of the Higher Institute of Health divides the recent history into two phases: a first, from 2000 to 2012, in which the covers remained substantially stable and, in the case of the MPR vaccine, grew; a second, from 2012 to 2014, in which the covers began to shrink, especially against measles, mumps and rubella. As the Higher Institute of Health points out, the 2014 data confirm that the decrease recorded since 2012 is not a temporary decrease, but a trend that seems to consolidate from year to year. In recent months the problem of the decline in vaccine cover has attracted the attention of the media and public opinion, especially following some news: we remember the death of the child for diphtheria in Spain, the first case in the country for thirty years; the death of a newborn not yet in vaccination age in Bologna and seven cases of meningitis in Tuscany. The alarm triggered by this news rekindled the debate and, on the one hand, led to a health concern and, on the other hand, created the fertile ground for the subculture of conspiracy theories. It is not difficult to come across anti-vaccinist material, sites and blogs that deal with such topics, from the hidden truths, to the new world order, to the archaeology fantasy, to the chemical trails, to the most different thesis alternatives to the official science. However, the reasons behind the decision not to resort to vaccines are the most diverse and only a minority embraces militant anti-vaccinism. Most have fears and doubts that cannot be dissipated, because they are disoriented by information lacking and contradictory, even by some doctors. The feeling of lack of transparency causes mistrust and suspicion towards health institutions and generates the need to seek answers elsewhere. There is also a difficulty to be taken into account, which goes beyond the problem of misinformation. Like many other discussions on scientific or medical issues that are the subject of social disputes, vaccines are not just a debate on vaccines. Facts and evidence may not be able to scratch the opposite positions, because these are the result of personal experiences, moral values, political beliefs and prejudices. In other words, the facts are opposed to frames, images, interpretative schemes, frames of meaning, within which reality is arranged and adapted. For example, if for someone the vaccines refer to the official medicine, or Big Pharma, and if these elements are already framed in a negative frame, then so will the vaccines. Finally, as has been said and repeated several times during the debate, vaccines are victims of their own success. The results obtained following vaccination campaigns, from the disappearance of polio in the West to the global eradication of smallpox, have quickly lost the memory of the epidemics of the past, even the most recent. This leads many today to underestimate the risks of infectious diseases and to overestimate those of vaccines. Involving citizens in the dissemination activity could help break down negative frames and drive away fears. Meanwhile, also from the Regions came the invitation to consider the introduction of the vaccination obligation for access to schools and there is also discussion of the role and responsibility of health professionals and the hypothesis of sanctioning doctors who do not recommend vaccines; all hypotheses that have led, then, to a summary in the decree-law under consideration. The facts, however, may not be enough to change the negative frames but, given the many clichés and errors surrounding the subject, we need - in my opinion - to clarify some points. For example, the biggest fake news: vaccines would not be 100% safe. Well, if we, for the sake of safety, mean the absolute certainty that the administration of a vaccine involves a risk of zero, then this certainty does not exist, as it does not exist for any medication, therapy, surgery and, in general, I would say for any human activity. Moreover, it is precisely for this reason that all precautions are taken to try to reduce the risks as much as possible, as is the case - for example - with safety procedures in the workplace. As for medicines, safety assessment is also carried out for vaccines when efficacy is studied during the different stages of testing, and the whole process is subject to the laws and control of the regulatory bodies, the AIFA and the EMA, which only after the end of the studies authorise the use and placing on the market of the new vaccine. But controls continue even after authorisation, through the surveillance system, which collects all reports of suspected adverse reactions sent to healthcare professionals. Some time ago - for example - the AIFA precautionaryally blocked some batches of influenza vaccine (fluad) after reporting some suspicious deaths. The ban was then removed, after the analyses excluded any link with deaths, as confirmed by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). In addition to surveillance there are also data from studies published in scientific journals. It is precisely the studies carried out following disputes on the safety of vaccines that have often been an opportunity to dispel some doubts. As the time available to me is running out, I just say that in the detailed report of AIFA in 2016, which divided the outcomes into "fatali," "grave" and "non-serious," none of the 69 possible deaths were related to a direct link to the vaccine. They were all patients between sixty-seven and ninety-six years old, with an average age of eighty-three years, and only two were children, two and five months old, whose death is likely related to sudden death syndrome. It has been said that there is no obligation in Europe, but there is no obligation in 17 countries, whereas it exists in 14 countries, in several of which even for six or seven vaccines. Some things have been said correctly and others incorrectly. I would just like to add that the debate is important and we have to go into the substance, because amendments have been adopted that have not improved the decree-law, but have made it worse, increasing the confusion. For example, in Article 1 the vaccine for the papilloma virus was removed, which was part of the vaccination plan and was covered by adequate financial resources. So, in addition to mandatory and recommended vaccinations, we have created a new category, that of forgotten vaccinations. And I guess it's an oversight. The requirement for meningococcal C and B vaccination was also rightly removed, but the reason was not explained. People wondered why the number of compulsory vaccines, which once stood at 12, then became 10. One wondered whether the number of 12 was chosen, perhaps because it was the number of the apostles, while the 13 was bad luck. It has not been explained, just as it has not been well explained the fundamental concept that starts from the index of contagion (R0), so the greater the index of reproduction and contagion, the greater the need to vaccinate, because this will protect a greater part of the population. If the vaccine has an R0 of 12-18, a single case can infect up to 18 people. For varicella the R0 value is 5-8, while for meningococco the value is 1-2 and 1-5. This means that the ability to spread, i.e. the epidemic potential, is low, although the clinical severity is high, because the disease can be fatal, although there are then antibiotics and other treatments, which are other factors that need to be considered. Then there are other errors in the text: resounding is that in article 2 of the decree-law, in which is given importance to the consultors. This is a technical error, because it is not the consultors who have to deal with this matter, where at most there are some obstetricians and some psychologists who are not trained, but the prevention departments. It is the ASL that, by organizing itself, must say who should do the vaccination. The staff of ASL has been trained for years and is responsible for this: they are the famous health institutions. It is okay, instead, for practicality, to apply the speech to pharmacies, according to Law No 69 of 2010, but in the ministerial decree it will have to be well detailed who does what and how and, above all, it is necessary to deal with computerization, so that the data flows into the national network of vaccinations, which offers the data of the covers and also the monitoring of the adverse effects. That ministerial decree must be done very carefully. It was another technical error to admit the obligation, without considering that now we do not have the time to implement it in such a way as not to create chaos, because the structures and the staff are not adequate. It wasn't even supposed to come to Parliament... president. Senator Fucksia, you must begin to conclude. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I shall conclude, Madam President. It would have sufficed for the Minister, in the vaccination plan, to clarify what the compulsory vaccinations are now. I hope, however, that the debate on the amendments will lead to a number of corrections, starting with the distortions in the measure and above all with the unconstitutional rule, which has no reason to be, which provides for high sanctions, which not everyone can afford and discriminate against poor students from rich and wealthy students. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u26	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u27	Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy, I have to make a premise before I make a series of criticisms of the measure. As a North League, we are sure that vaccines are a good thing and have saved millions and millions of lives. But what the government is doing with the measure under consideration frustrates the process that had now been established, the one for which the families spontaneously led to vaccinate their children. First question: did you need a decree-law? Is there an epidemiological urgency in our country that will lead the Government to use the wereher in this case, not giving the families a chance to understand, but by lowering an ax and just saying that this must be done? We will continue to ask ourselves this, because this is the subject. Europe has divided itself on the compulsory and non-compulsory nature of vaccines. The majority of European countries do not impose, but convince. In Italy, however, we decided to forcefully impose vaccines. The result will probably be contrary to the general interest and also to the will of those who proposed the measure. Initially twelve vaccines were imposed, in one age group, from birth to two years, in which prevaccinal analyses are not yet prescribed to determine which children could risk more or less. The dialectic in the Commission has led to the reduction of compulsory vaccinations from twelve to ten, with the cancellation of B and C antimeningococcal vaccinations, moreover not understandable, given the fact that scientific evidence would recommend exactly the opposite, as they are so worrying and devastating diseases that it would probably have been useful to make vaccinations compulsory. The government on this measure is moving like an amateur to the mess. It imposes a practice and does so with severity, introducing strong sanctions. If parents do not vaccinate their children, they will no longer be able to attend kindergartens, kindergartens and other schools. But sanctions don't end here. Those who do not vaccinate their children will also be sanctioned monetaryly. Initially there was a penalty of 7,500 euros: think about what would happen to a family, with all the difficulties that they all face today, if it were affected by such a measure. After the debate in the Commission, these financial penalties, which are still very serious, have been halved. What didn't you do? It was not thought about what would happen later. Today, if a family turns to ASL to arrange a vaccination appointment, at so many ASLs it gets that appointment after many months. Having to enroll their children and risking their rejection from nursery schools or kindergartens, all families will run to ASL, which of course will not be able to do their job. There will be overcrowding. What will happen? The Minister has no answer to this. And the government pretends these problems don't exist. There are ASLs that work - the country is long and diversified - and in some of them you can get an appointment in reasonable times. But people or families will have to reason. Until the measure runs smoothly and there are ministerial circulars that will apply the whole new system, ASL will probably charge tickets until September. Families, then, since they have been told, although the information is still a little vague, that from September onwards vaccinations will not be paid, they will not go immediately but wait for September. Too bad, though, that the inscriptions will have already taken place. Confusion. Was it necessary to create confusion? You couldn't let things go the way they were? The Commission was asked to delay the entry into force, because they did not make such a rigid sense of timing. Other demands we made to the government have been rejected, such as the following. If you have imposed the obligation, why does the request for certification in order to be able to enroll a boy in school or a child in kindergarten have to be paid? Amendments to the objections tabled in this regard were rejected. But apart from the payment, which is absurd, if there is a requirement, and I have to ask for that certification from the ASL or the hospital that carried it out to take it to a school, why do I also have to pay for it? Secondly: are we not in the simplification season? As these documents are available to public administrations, could not all this be done automatically? ASLs provide school with information on children, with all the content you have decided to ask for. Was it so difficult to run the system without creating additional burdens for families? You say you want to do one thing, and you'll probably get to do the opposite. I touch the button of children who cannot be vaccinated because they suffer from particular diseases, immunodepressed or subjected to different types of care, such as chemotherapy. These children cannot be vaccinated, because they would risk too much. What do you write in law? It is written that these children will have to be placed at most one per class. And we understand the reason for such a prescription. You say that, since they are not vaccinated children, and tend to be less protected, it is good that they are included in a generally protected class. Too bad, though, that the effect you have will be exactly the opposite. If that child is not guaranteed total anonymity, he will risk being seen as a small plague and will be ghettoized. But how many laws have we had to approve against bullying in schools? And now we offer the right so that these children, who are said to want to protect, become even more vulnerable. In fact, it protects the child who is not vaccinated in a class where everyone is vaccinated, but it is not said that teachers must also be vaccinated: and already this mussel against what is written. More: children may live more at home than at school during those five hours. But at home there is no obligation that parents also be vaccinated. All these predictions, therefore, do not work. As for the protection of people's privacy, I am thinking here of the most widespread form of contagion we have seen in recent years, when we talked about HIV. Well, if a person suffering from this very serious illness should leave work for treatment and then return to work, to guarantee his privacy, the employer is also prevented from knowing his pathology, just to protect it. And bear in mind that an HIV patient is extremely dangerous and can become infected. Well, if an HIV patient has the protection, the anonymity guaranteed by law, you don't understand why we have to put a child, who is not a plague but simply a non-vaccine, in such a position that it risks making him feel like an outcast. As far as school is concerned, we'd like it to work. We know all the difficulties and, apart from the decrees on good school, which I do not know if they have really improved the functionality and goodness of our institutions, the school leaders will now have to check first the schedule of tasks arising from the measure under consideration. They will have to inform families, ask and obtain documentation, make lists, provide: they will probably put aside the problems of school functionality, teacher coverage, teaching hours because it is too rigid the imposition that is given it and too many burdens would be incurred by the school subjects with this bill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to come to the conclusion. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We think, for example, that a teacher per institution will have to be distracted from teaching, because he will have to take care of all the tasks related to this provision. We had to provide for EUR 10 million to compensate schools facing over-functions. The Ministry will have to equip itself with 20 more people for administration disputes. I shall conclude, Mr President. Without wanting to make propaganda to the regions of the North administered by the League, we have seen that in those where only scientific communication has been made, making the population aware, we get better results that approach the optimal standards required by the World Health Organization, without frictions, without sanctions, without exclusions or ghettoizations of children who are not infected but only - perhaps - a danger because they are not vaccinated. You have created panic, families are very worried and even those that would naturally lead their children to vaccinate are now reluctant. If they read the liars of the vaccine serums - just as each of us reads the contraindications on the liar of any drug - stiffening is such that probably not only will they not take vaccines, but they will not take the drugs anymore. If you consider that the pediatrician also asks for help, the family understands that something is not working. You need to regain trust, you need to reassure families. Vaccines - we repeat - are a good thing, but you have to make them understand and not impose them with the cleaver and with your methods. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u28	I apologise but - as you will remember - the times are contingent and the League Group is largely out of date. That's why I had to interrupt you, Senator Divine, and I apologize again. Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u29	Madam President, I want to start from two reports a few weeks ago that seem to me to be very significant for the complex debate we are facing. The first: the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei has published a document that expresses itself in a unanimous and scientifically documented way in favour of the obligatory vaccinations. The second: the WHO has given Italy a yellow card for the decrease of the national average coverage of vaccinations, dropped below the recommended safety threshold. I would add a third point. With the measure under consideration, Italy is doing what happened in California a couple of years ago, when the obligation of vaccines was reintroduced to be able to go to school after a serious measles epidemic, which put in danger of life leukemic children who, unable to vaccinate because immunodepressed, contracted the disease or were forced not to go to school because the companions were not vaccinated. After California many other states have followed the same path, and we are talking about the United States of America, the most liberal country in the world. In Italy in 1999 the law that provided for the administration of compulsory vaccines to children of school age failed. At the time a reasoning had been made: by now everyone is vaccinated and those who do not are very few, so they do not create problems. But this unfortunately was not the case, and now the government has decided to put back on the safety belt called the vaccine, which is also attached to children who have cancer. And that, I believe, is a right decision. I do not think it is a scandal, in short, nor a step backwards from the cultural, health and social point of view, that in order to enroll their children in school it is necessary to present the document attesting that the vaccination calendar has been respected. The lowering of the threshold of coverage in recent years has in fact favored a generalized increase in cases of infectious diseases; just think of the last infections from measles, which have fivefold compared to last year. Pathologies have come to affect variegated age groups, often different from the classic ones, and more serious clinical frameworks, with greater recourse to hospitalization and consequent increase in health and social costs. With this premise it is clear that I agree with the line chosen by the Government to return to compulsory vaccinations, although it was perhaps preferable not to intervene through a decree-law. President Gentiloni himself, presenting the decree-law, said that, although there is no national emergency at the moment, the objective of the measures is precisely to prevent the difficulties that today are being transformed in the near future into real health emergencies. The President-in-Office of the Council's statement is therefore not at the moment a national emergency situation and therefore there should be no pre-conditions for the use of urgent decrees. If, however, as a result of the vaccination campaign, even one human life can be saved or the occurrence of particularly harmful health problems can be prevented, then the adoption of the decree-law can also be justified. There is, however, an incongruity that I would like to point out: it is not clear in fact the ratio of the different regime established for kindergartens and kindergartens, on the one hand, and school of the obligation, on the other: the condition of the registration the administration of the vaccine in the first case, compulsory also in the second case, but subject only to sanctioning its failure to carry out. Two comments on this point: the first is that both the interest in education and the interest in health relate to individuals as well as to the community. It is not clear whether and how they have been balanced in this decree-law. In fact, if there is a risk of infection of diffuse diseases, vaccination as a condition of registration should also be necessary for compulsory schooling. If, on the contrary, the risk is not or is not particularly high, it would still seem worthy of safeguarding the right to education since kindergarten. The question of the possible suspension of parental responsibility, which was rightly proposed in the Commission, would then have been very complex. Constitutional jurisprudence in this regard has repeatedly taught us that any legislative automatism, such as that which to resort to certain circumstances of particular gravity leads to the loss of parental power, clashes with the pre-eminent interest of the child, which must always and in any case be safeguarded. There is one last relief, addressed in the past weeks to the decree-law, which deserves to be deepened. The number of compulsory vaccines is increased from four to ten and, according to Codacons, the transformation of optional vaccinations into compulsory vaccinations will force children to submit to a massive dose of vaccines without any possibility of prevaccinal diagnostics with consequent and possible increase of adverse reactions. A situation that could weigh in a possible check of reasonableness of the legislation, if the decree-law was submitted to the union of the Constitutional Court. All legitimate doubts, since we are dealing with a particularly complex issue, which affects the relationship between science, ethics and law. In my opinion, however, the prime interest to be protected at this time is to return to the vaccination threshold indicated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and to stem the spread of anti-scientific behaviours and theories that have led to a decrease in levels of protection in recent years. For this reason, in the hope that the Government will not put the question of trust in order to leave open the door to further amending improvements, I am already announcing my vote in favour of the measure, even if my Group decides differently. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u30	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u31	Madam President, first of all, I would like to point out - I think they are all aware of this - that we are discussing the decree-law and its contents and we are not talking about our position in favour of or against vaccination. I would like to say on the premise that, as far as we are concerned, we are in favour of vaccination. The discussion, however, takes place with reference to a decree that provides various chapters and various indications to make it workable and to ensure that the percentage of vaccinated children rises in the most general interest of the term. Generally speaking, I am never in favour of mandatory decisions on the family or health of your child. I would like to remind you that one of the things that will be discussed later is the informed consent. Therefore, our view is that we should make a convincing move towards citizens and families to ensure that children are given vaccination to protect them from infectious diseases not only for themselves but also for others, i.e. to ensure health in a more general sense. On the contrary, in this decree-law, on some issues, behavior is not exactly so. Since, from a scientific point of view, it is said that, often and willingly, the transmission of diseases takes place not only between children and children, but also between adults and children, we believe that the fact that vaccinations should be extended to all those who can also be healthy carriers of infectious diseases should be taken into account. 11:33 a.m. (Follow Zuffada). Therefore, vaccination should, in our opinion, be extended. Above all, instead of creating this climate of great emergency that is dividing Italian citizens between favorable and opposed and sowing panic, as has been done, it would have been desirable an educational and informative action not from today, but from the previous years, when it was evident, on the basis of the data that came to the Ministry, the decrease of the percentage of the vaccinated children. Convincing action serves to ensure that families responsibly decide to vaccinate their children. This was not done; it was thought about information campaigns on fertility day and we saw how it ended. There is also a problem of priority choices that the Ministry of Health, on the merits of vaccinations, has made in the last two months with compulsory vaccination. Other colleagues will be speaking on the number of vaccinations and on the substance of the next debate, but the responsibility that we owe to the Government concerns two aspects in particular. We have a Minister of Health who tells us that there is an emergency for which we must intervene by decree-law because there are epidemics and there is the President-in-Office of the Council who, on the contrary, says that there are no emergencies, there are no epidemics and that the possible epidemic detected by statistical data concerns measles. Normal people think that when there is an emergency regarding this type of disease, you intervene on that. You don't understand why there were 12 compulsory vaccinations in the early stages and then their number decreased. However, we consciously and responsibly, especially with regard to the general directive on administrative activity and the management of immigration, have pointed out that it would be appropriate to commit ourselves to vaccination, especially of children, who have arrived through illegal immigration channels, but also of adults who come in the same way. That is to say, we have noted the opportunity to widen the range of vaccinations, including adults, whether they are socio-health workers or the school in contact with children. However, in order not to appear to be prejudiced by the decree-law, as our Parent Company has stated, on the grounds that we voted on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, we are prepared to find a way out of this during the debate in this House, in particular, of examining the amendments, provided that we are not proposed to withdraw the amendments in order to turn them into recommendations, because we know very well what is going on with the agendas and the recommendations. There is therefore openness to dialogue, but we basically remain on the substance of the content and do not talk about it in terms of vaccinations yes or vaccinations no. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. 11:38 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the decree-law now under discussion is a cause of great concern to many experts, professionals and many families, and it has opened a very sensitive debate that we should perhaps have avoided. I also believe that a clarification is appropriate in the preamble: my position is in favour of safe and effective vaccines. The validity of vaccinations as a means of preventing infectious diseases is universally recognised (unless very few cases are condemned) by the scientific community and informed citizenship. Any objection of principle would be unnecessary and inappropriate; there is no doubt that vaccinations have contributed to the progress of medicine and continue to contribute to the reduction of morbidity and mortality, especially in countries with high prevalence of communicable diseases. That is precisely why I believe that every decision on such an important subject for the health of individuals and communities must be taken in the light of the most up-to-date and robust scientific evidence available and of the context in which they are going down. This is also stated by the World Health Organisation. In view of this premise, however, it must be noted that in the current debate on vaccinations cultural, political and economic factors seem to prevail which are likely to have more weight than scientific evidence. In recent months we have seen a succession of statements, even conflicting, even if made by the same person, and without strong motivations, coming from people who for their role should feel held (especially on such a delicate subject, but in general always) to the maximum objectivity, avoiding easy slogans and without feeding radical oppositions and divisions of the country. Precisely because there is no risk of weakening the role of safe and effective vaccinations, I believe that we must avoid taking measures that can increase the problem of vaccination hesitations, which is known internationally. In recent years it has been studied and called vaccine skepticism by the World Health Organization, which has said that in order to understand the phenomenon it is necessary to study the causes, which are to be traced back to three substantial factors that add up: the lack of confidence in vaccinations, unfortunately there is, we can only take note of it even if we may want to counter it; the difficulty on the part of so many young parents to make a demanding decision for their child (which we must understand, because it is part of the anxiety to raise a child); the lack of convenience to vaccinate, in the sense of the difficulty of access and often also of the cost of vaccinations. Now, can we think that these causes identified by the World Health Organization with regard to developed countries are the basis of the decline in vaccine coverage in our country too? I think so, and many experts say so. If so, then, what actions could the State and the Regions have and can now put in place to counter this trend? The necessary action is to work to restore the confidence of the citizen in the indications coming from health institutions. Disinformation, lack of data usability, the use of too complicated terms, the fear of possible side effects are all factors that in some way should be attacked by those responsible for health protection. Listening to parents, producing easily understandable information, always objecting to the benefits and risks of vaccinations: these are the ingredients that should not be improvised and should not be forgotten. They constitute that relationship of trust which has been at the basis, since the birth of the child, of the relationship between doctors, health workers and citizens; and it is only within this relationship that it is possible to dialogue serenely and favor a conscious and responsible decision, delicate precisely because it relates not only to your child, but also to your relations with the rest of the community. It would also be necessary to recognise that the time devoted to this report is a real time of care. This is important, but we have all too often forgotten it; operators do not spend any more time on these aspects in the end. However, vaccination skepticism is also linked to other factors, which should not be overlooked or removed, even when unfortunately they hurt us, because they risk affecting the deep convictions that we have and that we would like to maintain. Facts like the hasty and guilty publication, in a prestigious international scientific magazine, of an article on vaccine damage (later revealed to be devoid of any foundation and then withdrawn from the same magazine, but now had devastating effects on people's behavior) have huge effects, on which the scientific community first, instead of claiming only the correctness always and anyway of science, should question and are being questioned. But maybe you should do it even more forcefully. Then there are the cases of epidemics and also pandemics, then revealed to be unfounded, as well as the confirmed cases of corruption subject to final condemnation, which unfortunately also concerned our country. These issues only increase people's doubts and fears and put to the test the credibility of the institutions, of all the institutions: political, scientific and, above all, health institutions. Not to mention the use of the Internet, which is often considered the main culprit, but which is actually not the only one. Well, for many years everyone, starting with the Government, should have put in place actions to combat these phenomena, because we have known them for many years we know that we must try to combat them. Well-designed actions could perhaps have contained, perhaps only in part, the growth of hesitations, but certainly they would not have been useless. And instead, as far as we can see, the great constraints to which the health companies have been subjected and the conditions of access to the vaccination services, which are in many unacceptable parts (we know well, from Lombardy to Sardinia it takes months and months to book the vaccination of a child, the vaccinations are in many territories subject to ticket and so on), are all phenomena that do not help the parents to make the decisions in an appropriate way. I can't help but remember that the slow reduction in vaccine coverage began around 2013. In these four years perhaps something more should have been done and it could also have been done, first from the government. And do not tell me, as I have often been told, that this is the task of the Regions: the State has the task of monitoring the delivery of essential levels and of intervening in case of failure of the Regions, and vaccines are part of the essential levels. For some time now, in the Health Commission, with the unanimous support of the parties, we have also denounced the weaknesses with which the central level plays the role of monitoring and intervention in the event of non-compliance with the essential levels. But let us come to the merit of the decree-law. The first aspect concerns consistency with current health programming, in particular the national vaccination prevention plan 2017-2019, which was approved in January of the current year and published in the Official Journal last February. This plan is based on a vision of the health education, responsibility and empowerment of citizens at the heart of all actions to be taken in order to protect the health of the population, including through the vaccination tool. It does not appear in that document that there is a clear and general stance towards the mandatory nature of vaccines as the only instrument to be adopted in case of concern, whereas this is read in the decree-law; yet, the vaccine coverage data were known for a long time and were not very dissimilar to those of today. What is the reason for such a change of course? Evidently the extensors of the two documents did not coordinate with each other; there are no other reasonable explanations. We cannot understand why the national plan includes sixteen vaccines, of which four mandatory and twelve recommended, while the decree-law provides for twelve compulsory and four recommended vaccines, and the subsequent amendment, proposed by the rapporteur and accepted by the government and certainly improving, provides for ten compulsory, four strongly recommended and only two recommended vaccines (perhaps weakly, just to simplify). This is a further complication compared to an already very differentiated regional landscape, and it certainly does not admit that the answer is that all three solutions have strong scientific foundations: only one of the three can be worth it; or there are elements of distinction - which we believe there are - that should be clarified. A second question concerns the actual need for urgent action on twelve vaccines. I too have considered the need to proceed with regard to the decree-law in question, but the data available for our country, which unfortunately are not clear and easily accessible, indicate a decrease in vaccine coverage below the threshold recommended by the WHO of 95%; differentiated decline for the different vaccines, with wide variability in time, places and population groups. The decrease particularly affects measles. I do not extend, but I stress that the 95% threshold does not correspond to the critical level of establishing "horse immunity" for all diseases. I cannot fail to recall that the Minister in the Health Commission has stated that if the WHO believes that the objective is to achieve 95%, you have a 100% target (which would mean vaccinating even those who are ill, it would be good if they were not vaccinated). This critical level is of concern only to measles. On this situation, it would be appropriate to intervene: why not only make the measles vaccine compulsory compared to the four existing compulsory vaccinations (we have proposed it in some amendments, which have been rejected by the Health Commission, but which we have re-presented in this House), addressing the other situations of weak concern with the other instruments of active promotion of voluntary and conscious accession? The chaos of measles highlights another problem: the need for the obligation, if we are convinced that there is an emergency, to be extended to all health professionals and perhaps even to post-school age. The median age of people affected by measles is 27 years and we know that there are cases of measles passing through healthcare professionals. Here I know what the answer is: it's a cover problem. Certainly we do not neglect the problems of coverage, but of the two one: or there is an emergency on measles (and then the government finds the money, because we cannot pretend to fight measles by imposing compulsory vaccination only for children), or there is an emergency problem for measles (and then we use the same action against children and - at least - health workers). On what scientific basis is the administration of an anti-Hemophilus influenzae type B vaccine expected in patients up to 16 years of age when the Regions also requested it, while the relevant amendment was rejected in the Health Commission? Would vaccination be useful only in the first few years of life? In the vaccine liar it is written that it should not be given to children over the fifth year of age. On what grounds have anti-meningococcal vaccines B and C been included in the Decree-Law, which fortunately, during the debate in the Commission, have been transformed into vaccines only recommended? Why has there not been more work - something has been done and I thank you - to simplify the obligations imposed on citizens? Why does the Decree-Law contain nothing on pharmacovigilance and vaccine archives (also in this case, the framework was introduced in the Commission)? How do you think that there is sufficient scientific rigour and attention in a decree-law that does not look at applications? Why not allow the re-finalisation of the resources which, with the budget law passed last December, we linked to the purchase of vaccines to the entire implementation of the vaccination programme? What is the point, especially in the very first few years, or at least in the first year of application of the norm, of buying vaccines, when we know that there are structures that cannot administer them because of lack of staff or, as has been said, syringes? Why not allow some of these resources to be used to promote an information campaign to help strengthen responsible membership? Madam President, I would like to conclude quickly and ask for permission to deliver the written text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP). I would like to recall the delicate situation of potential conflict of interest that has arisen. The Catholic University of the Sacred Heart has a direct call for a position of first-class professor in the sector of competitive general hygiene and applied for the Institute of Public Health directed by Professor Gualtiero Ricciardi, who is currently on leave because President of the Higher Institute of Health. This Institute and, in the first person, Professor Ricciardi were the superexperts who advised the Minister in all issues related to vaccinations. The funding of this chair is borne by private individuals, Merck Sharp & Dohme, which is the leading company in the fight against preventable diseases with vaccinations and in the production of vaccines. We are still waiting for answers of merit. Let me briefly give you a few more reflections. As far as I can see, the subject we are dealing with seems to be more concerned with political and electoral competition and in the search for consensus and funding, as well as complacency with certain powers (from economic to political) and aspiration to specific benefits, such as remuneration for additional benefits. The race has begun, everyone wants to take advantage of vaccination programs to get resources. There are also resources for university chairs and new roles for some professionals, starting with private pharmacies. The aspects of protection against preventable infectious diseases seem to be - I hope to be wrong - the means rather than the end. Moreover, the lack of response on these important aspects unfortunately leaves open all the questions on the why of the inflexible fierceness by the Government in the defense of the fundamental pillars of the establishment of the decree-law. We do not underestimate the importance of vaccinations. Nobody wants institutions indifferent to epidemics, but risk management requires the ability to analyse, intervene, independence and robust ability to understand the hesitations of the many young mothers who ask for transparency. One last aspect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, you've exceeded your time of three or four minutes. DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP). I'm done. I thank the Commission, as I have already said, for its efforts and work and for the improvements that have been made. I still have the bitterness - I have to say it openly - for the carelessness with which the government has looked at healthcare professionals. Interventions have been planned in favour of school managers (I have nothing against school leaders), in favour of the Ministry of Health (20 places at the Ministry to manage practices for vaccine damages), in favour of private pharmacies, in favour of interventions by general medical doctors and pediatricians and not in favour of health workers and employees working in vaccination centres. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] That the government has done this means that it does not care about the application of this measure and perhaps not even the mortification that many health workers are suffering from. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Misto, and Senators Gaetti and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u33	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u34	Madam President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues, empty rooms and full squares. This is not the first time and it will not be the last time that this House, at times of general discussion, has been reduced; but let me point out that on this occasion I would have preferred there to be a larger presence in order to develop that sense of desired responsibility which must accompany the decision and vote on a particularly complex measure. It is complex to the point that I have asked myself several times whether it is right that measures with a high level of technical and scientific complexity, where scientific profiles prevail over political assessments, arrive in the Chamber and instead proceed with different measures, with delegation laws, well-sold, but of course delivered to a decision taken away from the conditions of emotionalism. Of course, I am not in a suspicious position, having repeatedly claimed in this House a more appropriate role for Parliament. Yet this happens and when the square prevails over the activity of this House, when the emotion prevails over reason, when the strength of the belly manages to condition and orientate the vote on very delicate measures such as this not only does not render itself a good service to the quality of our national health system and to the protection of health, but does not render itself a good service to democracy either. The theme is delicate and complex and when it comes to drugs it almost always happens, because it occupies a transversal position, with its many implications compared to the various implications, which are undoubtedly the most perceived ones, of a technical scientific nature, connected with the pillar to which the reasonings must be inspired, that is, that of science; but there are also other implications, of a cultural, social, economic, ethical nature, perhaps even anthropological. The drug, perhaps for the very value of the etymology of the word, continues to be "halfway" between the reasons of the medicine and those of the poison, with its antinomies: indications and contraindications, benefits and risks, promise of health and side effects, use and abuse, in reference to disobedience. So there are also contradictions and paradoxes: we have seen and listened to them, in recent days and months, and we still do so in this House today. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I would also like to pay a moment's attention to colleagues who are engaged in conversation: if they honor me with their attention, I would be particularly pleased. We have indeed seen strange things in the past years and this does not escape any of you, ladies and gentlemen, because matters relating to those to which I am referring have also come overpoweringly into the debate of this House. In the past years the squares have been mobilized, paradoxically, to allow access to treatments with supposed drugs and to stimulate the legislator to eliminate prohibitions, constraints and foreclosures regarding therapeutic methods resulting from a charlatanry, which reigns. In the past we have seen the squares that urged the "palace" to allow the use of Bonifacio's serum, Vannoni's Stamina method, Di Bella's cure, without any scientific justification for these supposedly therapeutic methods. We have seen revolutions in the streets with anti-scientific crusades, with an incitement to the use of substances without recognized and possibly harmful efficacy. I would like to mention, last but not least, the case of "Vidatox," the poison of scorpion, on which we carried out a cognitive investigation. I would like to recall the fact-finding of the Stamina method, which led to unequivocal conclusions, which were also reflected in the arrest of the supporter of this type of method. The paradox is that on the one hand there has been the drive to access supposed pharmacological therapies without scientific foundation, while today we strive in every way to spread a perverse, worrying and harmful culture of disinformation on the value and significance of vaccination. I do not hear a word from the people "No vax" about the 68 deaths that are delivered every day to epidemiological statistics and that perish under the deep blows of antibiotic-resistance. I am talking about 68 deaths a day, according to data that the highest sector authorities at European level have encouraged. Although Italy has the highest consumption of antibiotics, there is no intervention. There is, however, the square that mobilizes to say "No vax." I believe that this is something that probably accompanies the history of man. The reasons, a bit religious and a little ideological of the "no" reabsorb and summarize the same reasons why, at the end of the nineteenth century, tried to invalidate scientific research and the grandiose intuitions of Edward Jenner, who opened the age of vaccinations. Of course, with this attitude and with what has been heard in this House, we spread disinformation and dissuade us from a vaccine practice. We spread, through the culture of suspicion and insinuations, a very damaging skepticism that takes us away from the goal. I would also say that the avalanche of insinuations, on the robust shoulders of authoritative researchers and people of the institutions, is an offense that goes beyond the reference to individuals. Vaccines are the most effective medical intervention after water purification: the WHO says so. Vaccines are still the best measure of prevention, because the risk-benefit ratio is very positive and with a value not only health, but also ethical, because the culture of vaccination is a culture of solidarity: it is not the coverage of the individual, but it is the collective coverage through the coverage of the individual. Madam President, I know that time is running out, but be generous and give me two more minutes. I do not go into the merits of the epidemiological aspects. Of course there may be adverse events, but there is a pharmacovigilance system that works and evolves in our country also through recent transpositions of EU regulations that have foreseen a proactive system of reporting adverse events. These are of course aspects that must be considered, but in a calm, mature and responsible debate that does not use, for the very special occasion on which we are working, the protection of health, the instrument of political speculation to balance the accounts. In fact, I believe that this reasoning - I am speaking as a force of opposition - does not go in the direction of supporting the reasons for the protection of collective health, in a civil country that is now queued in the international rankings on the levels of vaccine coverage. Certainly there are some critical issues, starting with the instrument used that is the decree. 12:08 a.m. (Followed by ambersio lettieri). We could do something different and better, having more appropriate times, which, even more than the night sessions, could leave room for a reflection and a mature, qualified, responsible and in-depth confrontation to overcome some critical issues that remain. The decree is in fact an imperative instrument, in terms of method, but the contents are also imperative. I would have preferred, compared to the introduction of the obligation, that even in some ways it is necessary, that it had prevailed the promotion of a strong campaign of education, information and awareness, which represent key words in order to recover that level of relaxation and pacification which, on the other hand, is not reflected in a country that is being unmistakably divided between pros and against vaccines. Possible adverse reactions should also be reported. As part of the planning activities, some amendments have been tabled, such as the one-component vaccine. Why is it necessary to do the trivalent and not to use the single component vaccine? Let us try to understand why the single component is not on the market. Target ranges should also be increased: the median age for measles has been reported to be 27 years. There are other proposals to be mentioned: the vaccination obligation for operators; the vaccination coverage for immigrants; access to vaccination services in terms of environment suitability and access times. The amendment on the possibility of vaccinations in pharmacy is the result of a serious structural, technical, organizational, organic and dilapidated deficiency. The affliction of sanctions is one of the aspects to which we expect the Government to devote greater attention in a restored relationship of mutual responsibility, avoiding the consolidation of the internal rift to the country that is causing even damage to our democracy on a subject that needs to be addressed in a different way. We must reduce the imperatives, invest in information and in a responsible comparison, not only dialectical-political, recovering even the most elementary bases of medicine of evidence and scientific rigour. [[Applause from the GAL Group (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and the Divine Senator. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u35	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law we are debating is important, one of the most important public health laws of the legislature, which will improve the health prospects of Italian citizens more than many others. To Minister Lorenzin, to the Government as a whole, to the Commissions and to the rapporteur it is my recognition for having been able to deal with public health policies with responsibility and foresight, without fearing unmotivated criticism and looking at the welfare of the citizens of tomorrow. I, like all of you, have received messages of every tone and content, I have read non-nouned news, which feed humanly understandable fears but scientifically senseless. Senator Maturani and Senator Buemi are right in remembering that these are behaviors that are probably born also from the perception that the diseases that flew the generations that preceded us are fortunately no longer around us. We no longer have before our eyes the tragic testimony of people affected by polio or smallpox, but viruses and bacteria have not disappeared at all. Many infect man to regenerate. We have them around us, we can and we must keep them under control, without lowering our guard, and we also contribute to informing them, knowing that informing them about issues of science may not be easy. Our brain, in fact, works a little strangely and that explains to us who deals with cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Our brain has strong prejudices, a legacy of its evolutionary history of tens of thousands of years, when it had to think about its individual survival and react to the emergencies of the moment as it explored the savannah of the pleistocene. Well, medical historians and cognitive psychologists explain to us that our brain came out of the caves only ten thousand years ago - this is a quotation from their texts - when it was in other contexts and is struggling today with scientific information that speaks of prevention (and, therefore, of years that will come, when before the years did not exist), probability, statistics, risk-benefit and precautionary ratio. It's really hard: it's as if our brain is really unfit to reason on these issues. So, it is true that informing is important, but informing is not enough. There are already studies, precisely on families who do not want to vaccinate their children, which show that corrective information is useful with some of the doubtful but even counterproductive with the most sceptical. These studies tell us, and should really train us on policies, on how to inform, that it is wrong to correct false myths or remove the errors of judgment so rooted in our evolutionary brain, because so it stimulates what is known as backfire effect i.e. the effect of the return of flame or the confirmation bias that strengthens rejection. So perhaps we explain the radicalizations of positions. Therefore, we must not remove the wrong beliefs, for example that vaccines cause autism, but we must give new information and say, that is, what happens to a child affected by the virus of mumps or rubella. This form of information has proved effective in some skeptics. Therefore, not lowering the guard also means developing ways to inform on public health issues and clarify the most debated issues. I too will do so by quoting some of them, with the support of the most recent logic, evidence and scientific literature. The first question concerns the defence, from several parts recalled, of individual freedom; but to invoke it in this context is to say that everyone must be free to remove the brakes to his car because he suspects that they have been badly drawn, claiming that he can do without avoiding any obstacle or braking with his feet. You cannot invoke the freedom to put others' lives at risk. The second question concerns, on the other hand, our social and collective responsibility as citizens: responsibility that derives from the so-called immunity of flock, repeatedly recalled, with which the community protects itself from the onset of the disease because the movement of the pathogen becomes impossible. This safety threshold recommended by the WHO varies according to the type of disease and is 95%, for example, in the case of measles. It has already been pointed out in this House that rejecting vaccinations, by lowering this threshold, means exposing their children and others to lethal risks, prevaccinal children or children and adults with a compromised immune system due to autoimmune diseases or tumors. Rejecting vaccinations also means letting the pathogen free to infect the cells of the organism, then changing to give rise to more virulent and changed strains for which the current vaccines may not work. Therefore, a non-vaccined individual can function as a vehicle for the creation of strains resistant to current vaccines. The third point concerns the assertion that Italy would be the only country in Europe to resort to the obligation for such a large number of vaccines. Yet, when vaccination falls, the different countries have reacted and have always taken action. Germany has introduced economic sanctions for parents who do not report to the authorities their refusal to vaccinate their children at the time of registration. In France, a number of legal measures have been made effective again, and two parents, who have been sanctioned without reason - if not personal perceptions - against vaccination for their children. A month ago, again in France, a debate opened to make 11 pediatric vaccinations compulsory, compared to the current three. There is no doubt that the obligation decided by decree-law is an emergency, a shortcut to bring the coverage close to the safety threshold; but it is the fastest and cheapest decision to reach the coverage rates suggested by the WHO. To Senator Divina, who seems to me to claim that the obligation is not necessary because there are no epidemics in place, I have to answer: less evil. With this measure we rely on medicine precisely to prevent such an unfortunate epilogue to the country. The fourth step concerns the alleged danger of vaccines. In the last 20 years, there have been no deaths scientifically related to vaccines. How many, on the other hand, have died from infectious diseases considered to be missing! In the 20th century, when vaccines did not exist, nearly 1.7 billion people died of infectious diseases and our life expectancy has passed from forty-seven years of the twentieth century to eighty-five today, thanks to the defeat of many diseases also due to vaccines, as well as better hygiene and the use of antibiotics. In the Western world, mass vaccinations have avoided the death of 500 million people and you think that in the current decade 2011-2020 will prevent the death of 25 million people. Like all medicines vaccines can also cause adverse reactions. There may be some, very rare, serious reactions, however treatable, such as anaphylaxis, joint pains, edemas, for which temporary admission is expected; but we speak of less than one case in one million and, on the whole, the incidence of adverse reactions is lower than that of the most common medicines on the market. Aspirin, for example, causes 1,500 times as many adverse reactions as vaccines. Again about the danger, I remember in this House the known scientific fraud of the British surgeon Wakefield. He claimed that as a result of the trivalent vaccination, some children had contracted autism. But two events in sequence are not necessarily connected. That of Wakefield was a fraud invented for economic interests, discovered by a journalist and then exposed by scientific studies that have always denied the correlations between vaccination and autism, a difficult disease that we know today to have traits of a genetic nature, with the first signs in fetal age and therefore prevaccination. However, think that that tragic deception gives us an example of what happens when you are in the presence of a decrease in vaccinations; there was the explosion of an epidemic in the UK in 2012, with almost 10,000 cases of mumps, the death of 15 children, an epidemic of measles, hospitalizations and serious cases. It is the dramatic proof of how pseudoscience can become a real danger. As a fifth point, I would like to answer the question of the number of vaccines made compulsory, which many consider excessive for a child. Many data indicate that there is no need to worry. An antigen is a tiny piece of microorganism. It is, in other words, a single substance possessed of genotoxic properties, that is, able to stimulate our immune system. With a scratch or a mosquito bite a child comes into instant contact with thousands and thousands of antigens. Until a few years ago, the few vaccines we had contained 3,000 antigens. Think that today, with more vaccines, we have fallen to less than 100 stimulations and, therefore, to less than 100 antigens. The last point concerns the alleged interests of pharmaceutical companies to feed the vaccine market. A 2015 document from the Medicines Agency on the cost of vaccines for our National Health System underlines that that year the national expenditure on vaccines was 1.4% of the total cost of the health care system for medicines and the situation is no different in Europe. The concern is that today only five pharmaceutical companies produce most vaccines, while in the 1980s there were 17 and 26 in 1967. In fact, it seems to be public health, much more than multinational companies. Finally, the debate on vaccines requires us to reflect on our justice system. It is likely that the application of the law that we are going to vote will soon invest the Italian courts. The Di Bella case first and Stamina then taught us that our justice system lends itself to the possibility of ignoring the directives of the health authorities. For this reason, in 2015, the Senate Health Commission, at the end of the survey on the so-called Stamina case, had unanimously proposed to provide for the involvement of the competent health authority in judgments concerning drug testing. Today we have the opportunity, with this law, to make it effective. Thanks to the support of the Group of Independents and individual colleagues from the various political forces in Parliament and the Government, the amendment that provides for the involvement in the process of the Italian Agency of the drug in the case of disputes relating to drugs, whether vaccines or drugs being tested has been approved. This is a rule that I would like to dedicate to the memory of Professor Paolo Bianco of La Sapienza University and the General of the NAS Cosimo Piccinno. Men of our institutions, of which we have known the competences and the inexhaustible determination to help the country and justice in bringing out the truth in the so-called story Stamina. In the memory of their civil passion, and without prejudice to the full autonomy of the magistrate, with the norm "White-Piccinno" it is expected the obligatory presence in the processes of the highest authority in this matter, which should limit the risk of repeated scientifically unfounded judgments, as happened in too many processes precisely on Stamina. In other words, this rule seeks to prevent improper choices about what is dearest to us: health. Ladies and gentlemen, we approve of this measure, but we do not consider it an objective to have set an obligation. The real goal will have been achieved when, by learning to inform citizens about this issue, we have escaped its fears and regained confidence. This work, even before the political community, engages the whole medical and scientific community, as well as humanists, whose fundamental popular and participatory function in the democratic life of the country I will never tire of affirming the necessity. Science, let us remember, works for the well-being of all, but for it to be shared and accepted it needs to be understood. It is therefore up to the institutions to work to ensure that their intentions are followed up. [[Applause from the Aut-PSI-MAIE and PD Groups and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to be guided in expressing our vote by the amount of e-mails that are contrary to the vaccines and their compulsory nature that we have received these days, we would have no doubt and vote no. But are they actually the expression of the common feeling of our country or rather the fruit of spreading in the last few years of information without scientific support, carried out by persons without role and competence within the National Health System? Are we not faced with the classic situation of a silent majority who suffers as alarming and worrying messages are amplified by the web about the use of vaccines and unscientific news is being released? Therefore, I think it is appropriate to draw attention to the views of certain authoritative bodies with specific powers. Recently, the Cultural Association of Pediatric Doctors raised the problem of the existence in Italy of an ununiform vaccination system between the various Regions with small differences in some cases, but also to a very significant extent in others, calling for the establishment of a unique vaccination system. The World Health Organization (WHO), on the subject of this decree, in the face of the decline in vaccine coverage in Italy, has expressed its concern about the expansion of measles and other preventable diseases, ensuring its technical support to improve coverage and achieve control of diseases that threaten to reappear on the epidemiological level. The Italian Drug Agency and the Higher Institute of Health have recently launched the alarm for the strong reduction of vaccine cover in the population; such a strong reduction is equivalent to interrupting the prevention process initiated with mass vaccination coverage, with the very serious consequence of the re-emergence of diseases eliminated for years. I then recall the recent decisions of the Order of Italian Doctors, which led to the radiation from the order of some persons responsible for taking positions contrary to vaccinations. But how many cases are examined? Three out of over 300,000 doctors. Yet for three doctors a surprising media bass was set in motion. I would also point out that there is a risk of going unnoticed: in recent years there has been a significant increase in movements and migrations, resulting in increased contact between people from different countries and associated risks of transmission of pathogens of communicable diseases. In addition, diseases from epidemic diseases have occurred in some geographical areas until a few years ago completely disappeared. Therefore, it is not only the data of the Ministry of Health at the basis of the decree adopted, but much wider findings of different institutional subjects, with specific skills and professionalism. The decree now proposed takes note of the objective and worrying decline of the vaccine cover - even if it is not an emergency - recorded in recent years and the contextual reappearance of some diseases declared defeated for years. In addition, the perception of the importance of these diseases has decreased in the population, not being in the last few years the diseases eradicated or significantly reduced with vaccinations; but these diseases are reappearing. According to data from the Ministry of Health, since 2013 there has been a progressive decline in vaccination practice, which exposes to the risk of large epidemic outbreaks for diseases currently under control and the reappearance of diseases no longer present in our territory. If the current average of compulsory vaccinations is around 93 percent, in some areas (e.g. in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano and in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region) it is even less than 90 percent. Among the last places is the Veneto Region, which in 2007 decided the non-mandatory vaccinations, implemented from January 2008, and in Veneto, in this first part of 2017, there were more than 200 cases of measles. Even greater diversity is observed for recommended vaccinations: compared to the national average varying between 85 and 90 per cent depending on the type of vaccination, in some regions or geographical areas the percentage is even less than 50 per cent. It is therefore found that vaccinations are currently well below the safety threshold, according to which 95% of the population should undergo vaccination. The reform of Title V of the Constitution of 2001 has changed the institutional structure of relations between the State, Regions and local authorities, introducing a framework for devolution of competences and responsibilities in the field of health. With this reform, the regions have been given almost exclusive responsibility for the organisation and management of the health service, while the state is responsible for defining the essential health services (the so-called LEAs). In the Italian health sector, the offer of vaccine benefits is currently presented as an extremely varied mosaic, with strong territorial heterogeneity both at regional level (i.e. between regions), and within the same region, at the level of individual local health companies. From a regulatory point of view, there have been measures which have led to a progressive reversal of the trend on mandatoryness, leaving wide discretion to local health institutions and citizens. Faced with a problem of this standing, one positive aspect of the decree-law is to put order by returning to uniform legislation at national level. For a long time, medicine has identified prevention as the priority mode of intervention. Preventing rather than curing means taking appropriate action against the healthy person to protect him, allowing him to continue living well. In Italy this concept has been introduced with the health reform of the eighties and vaccinations are certainly one of the most effective and safe interventions available to public health for the primary prevention of infectious diseases. This practice brings benefits not only for the direct effect on vaccinated subjects, but also indirectly, inducing protection for those not vaccinated and who cannot be vaccinated. Vaccines have changed the history of medicine and have established themselves as a fundamental tool for the reduction of mortality and disease, profoundly modifying the epidemiology of infectious diseases. The use of the vaccine instrument has led to fundamental results such as the disappearance of smallpox (which the WHO declared eradicated on 8 May 1980) and polio (declared eliminated in the European region since June 2002). We must then ask ourselves why the decline in vaccination practice is taking place. It is to be attributed to different causes, first of all the spread in recent years of many anti-vaccinal committees that branch out generic information, often of alarmistic type, and information not supported by adequate scientific evidence. There are also initiatives by institutional and professional figures who give information in full autonomy that only highlight negative aspects (few) leaving out the undoubted results (many) that the spread of vaccinations has allowed to achieve. No less are the references to studies and research, denied by the scientific community, which relate vaccination and autism. Moreover, false information has gradually spread among citizens that vaccination is exclusively a device for enriching pharmaceutical companies. Another subject of great discussion is obligatory. On the question of the admission to school of non-vaccined children, a number of controversy has developed in recent months, due to local measures that are likely to generate further differences between different geographical areas of the country, as well as those so far caused by the different care systems. Some regions have already introduced the vaccination obligation for the frequency of kindergartens. 12.35 a.m. (Follow CONTE). On this subject I recall the judgment n. 20 of the TAR of Friuli-Venezia Giulia of 16 January 2017, which affirms the legitimacy of the resolution (so much criticized) adopted by the Municipal Council of Trieste, which concerns the introduction of the obligation to carry out vaccination as a requirement of access to municipal educational services of the age range from zero to six years, because - I quote - the respectable and protectable individual interest (the freedom of parents who, based on a precautionary principle, choose not to vaccinate children) must regress with respect to the public interest (the extension of the vaccine coverage), in particular where it concerns the protection of health. The public interest therefore prevails over the free choice of individuals. The reduction and elimination of infectious diseases are a priority to be achieved through effective and homogeneous national strategies. To this end, on 19 January 2017 the national vaccination prevention plan was approved at the Permanent Conference on Relations between the State, Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, as a tool to reduce inequalities in the country. Certainly there is much to be reprogrammed and implemented in the field of information, listening carefully to the concerns of parents and working with communities and health care professionals to create awareness and meet individual needs, so that each parent can make conscious decisions for himself and his children. Within the Decree-Law, the need for information is reflected in the provision of an ad hoc fund, although I recall that the same school programmes provide for health education. The information must be synergistic action to be carried out with the collaboration of the health system, health workers, educational institutions, universities and the mass media, in order to promote and promote the vaccination culture, through the organization, in a cyclical way, of meetings with parents, thematic conferences, targeted interventions in the context of the courses of preparation for birth, in the workplace, to inform adults about vaccinations and calls to be carried out during their lives, through the work of the family doctor, activating paths of permanent information. It should not be forgotten that there are children who are not vaccinated because they cannot be vaccinated and who do not attend school because they are likely to get sick. The decree-law also serves to protect the rights of these and to guarantee them the possibility of school attendance. The decree-law protects children who, for proven reasons, would risk consequences if vaccinated. With this in mind, we must consider the introduction of sanctions, which were mitigated during the course of the Commission' s proceedings. I close my speech, with which I intend to express my conviction that I share the decree-law, recalling that on 18 October last year I presented as the first signatory, together with other members of my Group, a motion precisely to ask what is now provided for by the decree-law; much of what is asked for by that motion is now answered in this decree-law. [[Applause from Senator Bianconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u39	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the first point I wanted to take into account, from what I have heard in the last speeches, is that considering those in the streets as no-vax or as subjects who are there to defend non-vaccine is a mistake. Those who are in the square are basically there to ask for a free choice, because they don't understand very well, as I understand it little too, what is the usefulness of making 12 compulsory vaccinations (or even 13, 11 or 10) in children from zero to sixteen years old. Such behavior runs the risk of passing some subjects from the category of doubters to the category of skeptics, as we said before; and this is very dangerous. Comparing this also to fear for Stamina is another force: on Stamina we all agreed that it was a lie, a scam, a falsehood; on vaccines, as you can see, there is a broad discussion and we are not all in agreement, so it means, above all on the obligatory vaccination, that there are doubts. I will try to make it clear why some of us have doubts. It is often said that those who choose not to vaccinate their children for reasons of conscience endanger the rest of the public and this is the reason for putting an end to the exemptions on vaccines, currently considered by the legislators at national level. However, we should be aware that the nature of the protection offered by many modern vaccines - and which includes most of the vaccines recommended by the CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) of Atlanta - is not consistent with such a statement. Not all recommended vaccines may prevent transmission of the disease or because they are not designed to prevent transmission of infection (rather, they are intended to prevent symptoms of the disease) or because they are for non-communicable diseases. People who have not received the vaccines mentioned below do not pose higher threats to the general public than those who have received vaccination. Now I will try to explain to you in a scientific way why. Let's start with the inactivated poliovirus vaccine, which cannot prevent the transmission of poliovirus. Wild poliovirus has been absent in the United States for at least two decades. Even if wild poliovirus is to be reimported on the road, the vaccine for polio with IPV (i.e. with inactivated vaccine) cannot affect the safety of public spaces. The wild eradication of poliovirus is attributed to the use of a different vaccine, which is the OPV or oral poliovirus vaccine. Despite being able to prevent the wild transmission of poliovirus, the OPV has been phased out and replaced with the IPV due to safety issues. I apologize if I'm too scientific. Tetanus is not an infectious disease, therefore vaccination for tetanus (through the combined vaccine DTAP) cannot alter the safety of public spaces; it is intended to make only personal protection. The diphtheria toxoid vaccine, also included in the diphtheria-tetan pertussis vaccine, is not designed to prevent the colonization and transmission of corynebacterium diphtheriae. Vaccination for diphtheria cannot affect the safety of public spaces; it is only intended for personal protection. The vaccine for acellular cough, which is the final element of the combined vaccine DTaP, now in use, replaced the vaccine for whole cell cough at the end of the 1990s. An experiment with the deliberate infection of cough in primates revealed that the vaccine is unable to prevent the colonization and transmission of bordetella pertussis. The cough is a highly contagious respiratory disease: the rates of cough in the United States increased and reached 42,000 cases in 2012. Although the rebirth of the cough is not fully understood, we assume that acellular cardiac vaccines, contained in the trivalent vaccine, cannot prevent colonization and transmission. Baboons vaccinated with this vaccine have been protected from severe symptoms associated with cough, but not from colonization and have immediately transmitted the bordetella pertussis to non-vaccine contacts. For comparison, previously infected animals were not colonized by secondary infection. Therefore, optimal control of the cough will require the development of improved vaccines. We are therefore doing research in this direction. In addition, the meeting of the Board of Scientific Advisers of the CDC in 2013 found that people vaccinated for cough are more likely to be infected and therefore contagious than people who are not vaccinated. We come to the numerous types of Haemophilus influenzae. Haemophilus influenzae B vaccine covers only type B. The introduction of this vaccine inadvertently shifted the dominance of the strain to other types of Haemophilus influenzae, i.e. those ranging from The general population is more vulnerable to invasive disease than it was before the start of the Hib vaccination campaign. Discrimination against children not vaccinated for Hib, therefore, has no scientific sense in the age of Haemophilus influenzae type h disease. As for hepatitis b, it is a blood virus that does not spread in the Community environment, especially among children who are not engaged in risky behavior, such as needle sharing or sex. Therefore, children vaccinated for hepatitis b cannot significantly alter the safety of public spaces. In addition, admission to school is not prohibited for children carrying chronic hepatitis b. Therefore, banning admission to school for those who are simply not vaccinated and not carrying hepatitis b would constitute unreasonable and illogical discrimination. Let us now come to measles. In this regard, I quote the 1994 article by Poland and Jacobson, which states that failure to achieve the goal of eliminating measles is an apparent paradox of measles infections in immune people. The apparent paradox is that when measles immunization rates increase at high levels in a population, measles become a disease of immunized people. Further research has determined that behind the measles paradox there is a fraction of the population called low vaccine responder. Patients with low response are those who respond badly to the first dose of measles vaccine. These individuals mount a weak immune response to subsequent vaccination and quickly return to the pool of susceptible within two to five years, although they have been fully vaccinated. Reciprocation cannot correct a poor response, which seems to be a genotoxic trait. Studies on the measles epidemic in Québec (Canada) and China show that measles outbreaks persist even when compliance with vaccinations is the maximum clause, i.e. 95-97 percent, and even 99 percent. This is due to the fact that vaccine-induced antibodies have also decreased over time in patients with a high response to the vaccine. At this point, we come to the considerations on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which establishes a principle that will make jurisprudence throughout the European Union. In the judgment, it is understood that there is no need for medical and scientific evidence to establish a link between the administration of a vaccine and the disease that subsequently affects a patient, as evidence is sufficient provided that it is serious, accurate and consistent. This is a verdict that will allow many patients to sue pharmaceutical companies. In practice, there is no longer any need for certain evidence that the disease is caused directly by the administration of the vaccine. The judge considered sufficient evidence that the disease arose a short distance from vaccination and that there were no prior personal or family medical records. Therefore, to insert the compulsory vaccination from zero to sixteen years for 10 or 12 vaccinations will most likely open the way to numerous claims of compensation type. There's something else that I need to say as a doctor. This coercive measure deeply undermines the relationship between doctor and patient, which is based on trust, especially on the part of the patient, that the doctor always advises what, at that precise moment, he considers most useful for the patient and his well-being. The motivations that often induce parents to delay vaccinations or not to vaccinate often indicate in the child's too early age the main cause, considering this age as vulnerable and too susceptible to adverse events. Another important cause is the lack of communication or too superficial communication from healthcare professionals in vaccination centres, who refer only to the benefits and never talk about the possible adverse risks. All this increases the distrust of parents. Finally, the transformation of optional vaccinations into compulsory will force children to submit to a massive dose of vaccines, without any possibility of prevaccinal diagnostics, resulting in increased adverse reactions which, according to AIFA, only in 2013, for the hexavalent were 1,343 of which 141 were serious. It should be recalled that adverse drug reactions (not just vaccines) were reported in 2008 as the fifth largest cause of hospital mortality in Europe. It remains impossible, then, to resort to vaccines in single form and the lack of availability on the anti-diphtheria market if not combined with other vaccines. On "PubMed" we get more than 5,000, more than 30,000 and more than 33,000 scientific articles, respectively, from "PubMed" under "Cancellation toxicity" or "Cancellation harmful effects" or "Cancellation side effects." It is therefore clear, from all that I have said, that the only true scientific basis that is present in this decree-law is that scientifically, since at the moment there is no previous research on the administration of 10 or 12 compulsory vaccinations for all subjects not vaccinated in the age group zero-six years, the Ministry of Health, in agreement with the Higher Institute of Health (or vice versa), has decided to do a mass trial on all Italian children and, at the end of this trial, will give us solid scientific data, with the precise numbers of possible eradication of contagious diseases and what this has cost in terms of more or less serious adverse events. Before the end of this experiment we cannot have certain answers to any of these questions, because, scientifically speaking, it is at the end that we will have the answer; first we are in the field of hypotheses to be verified through research. I, as a human being, do not consider myself a means to the realization of a health process but the end. Unfortunately, all post-vaccinal reactions are denied, as they are due to unfortunate coincidences. In Japan, when they moved vaccinations to two years, deaths in the cradle were greatly reduced. Maybe it's a coincidence, maybe, I don't know. The extravagant is approved for up to 36 months, so if we make it mandatory for up to 16 years we have no trial. I'll explain why I'm not a no vax at this point. Because a substantial part of those who claim no vax is allied with - and sometimes used by - that basin of citizens or people who see in the State an enemy to be overthrown, a hostile reality from which to defend themselves. In all this the children have become the battlefield: Get your hands off our kids, as it happened at Family Day. The anti-state is part of the history of Italy and now it is the turn of the parents, all unleashed by the claims of total control by the State and, on the other hand, an equal claim by the families. That is why the State is seen as an authority from which to defend itself, when our task should be to make it a reality to which everyone participates. Not acting in this direction leads only to the victory of small identities, small communities, against the great community of the State. The real paradox is that I am forced to talk about this, not to justify the right interventions in favour of an economic and social community, but for a health community. In practice, the State intervenes because a non-vaccinated company is dangerous. If we limit ourselves to this statement, however, we will not know what the level of danger is and what strategies are to be put in place to reduce or eliminate this danger; even better if these strategies are shared and are not imposed. I have heard many times the Minister and the Director of the Higher Institute of Health speak of a beautiful example given by the Governor of California to raise the level of vaccination coverage for measles by 5 percentage points in two years, through compulsory vaccination. Apart from the lack of scientific data in support of this thesis (and this in itself is already serious), perhaps we have forgotten that we are talking about the nation that more than all others is based on an ontological distrust of the state and the constitutional right of its citizens to rebel against the central authority. We are therefore faced with a nation whose philosophical basis is based on the principle of distrust of the State - this is very different from our way of thinking - and also in the distrust of pharmaceutical companies, which in America have falsified clinical data on the reliability of opioids in pain therapy. This scam is the basis of the abuse of these substances, resulting in an increase in overdose deaths in the United States: over 60,000 in 2016. Finally, let us not forget that conspiracy is the other, deformed face of sound distrust of the State. Finally, how not to remember Professor Burioni's pearls on this path, which insults people on his Facebook profile and on Twitter and which is acclaimed by government representatives - as it has been said - as "the anointing of the no-vax." Burioni has come to say that: All countries use the vaccination scheme proposed by De Lorenzo... So if he took a bribe, he took it to do the right thing. I do not believe that this statement needs comments. I quote another pearl of wisdom: You're just a bunch of squirming donkeys. Facebook has deluded you to count something with your atrophied mind and your claudicant Italian. Instead you don't count anything, you just have to be in a position to not harm. - and I daren't think like - - "Science isn't democratic." At this point I am sorry to tell you, but if you trust the science of such scientists blindly - indeed, I would say as a profession of faith - you really have a serious problem. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u41	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u44	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I rise to draw the attention of this House to the very serious stakes that have been scourged at Vesuvius for several days. The situation is much more dramatic than was probably perceived by the organs that should have intervened immediately, but that have done so with some delay. The Vesuvius burns, due to eight fires triggered in eight different places. Even the use of live animals used as baits is assumed to further fuel the fire. It is even thought that arsonists have used cats soaked in gasoline and left to run wildly inside the woods. There are families evacuated, tension and black smoke, dense and irrespirable: an immense column, tragic, full of ashes, that settles on the Vesuvius cities in the indifference of those who, even in this House, did not want to hear the cry of alarm when we discussed the law delegation on civil protection and still seems little attentive to the immense tragedy that the Vesuvius populations are experiencing. There is a fear that the flames can reach the landfills and many waste abandoned in many private areas and we talk about areas like Herculaneum, the city of excavations, and Terzigno, another beautiful city. They are extraordinarily beautiful and enchanting places that are being destroyed because of these ferocious and tragic burns. I ask myself and ask you, Madam President, on behalf of the Senate: was it a fair choice to bring the State Forestry Corps together with the Carabinieri, in the name of not knowing what precise logics? Was it a right choice not to set up a special office for the Vesuvius plan and the Campi Flegrei plan, when examining the delegation law for the reorganization of civil protection, where we managed not to write the word "Vesuvius" once? Was it a fair choice not to upgrade Canadair's air fleet and fire-fighting equipment year after year? Are we sure that entrusting civil protection tasks to the regions is the right solution? The plan of forest fire-fighting, which was issued by an order of the Presidency of the Council, has been objectively disregarded, otherwise we would not be faced with such a tragedy and the deplorable spectacles that we are witnessing these days. Continuing to believe that mayors are authorities of civil protection is a misleading system to represent to the citizens the way to make the laws that apply in our Parliament. Giving responsibility and civil protection authority to a mayor would also give him the proper powers, equipment and means. On the other hand, if we continue with this set of rules, in which no one knows exactly what to do when these tragedies happen, we will unfortunately increasingly have a feeling of impotence towards the citizens and our role as legislators in this House. [[Applause from Senator Fabbri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u47	FABBRI (PD). Madam President, as we mentioned this morning, exactly a year ago, on 12 July 2016, at 11.06 a.m., between Andria and Corato station, on the Bari-Barletta line, there was a collision between two trains of the railway company Ferrotramviaria. An accident in which 23 people lost their lives, including the drivers of both convoys and a trainmaster, and about 50 people were injured. This is the most serious railway disaster ever occurred on the territory of Puglia, one of the most dramatic accidents recorded in our country. We were all shocked by the images of those twisted sheets among the olive trees. In silence we have followed, through the media, the difficult rescue and intervention operations. It was a collective and national mourning, which we want to remember today also as a sign of closeness to the many families who suffer for this anniversary, compared to which every word appears, although felt and spontaneous, however superfluous, because in the face of the pain of loss every word risks being such. The trains were traveling in opposite directions. The presence of a curve did not allow the drivers any possibility of sighting and no emergency braking was possible. On that single-track route, where the only telephone block system was operational, it was therefore not possible to avoid the impact. Trani's Attorney's Office opened an investigation into the crimes of rail disaster and multiple manslaughter. As President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work, I promoted the opening of an investigation and on 22 July, just ten days after the tragedy, together with my colleague Daniele Borioli and Senator Pelino, we went to the place of the railway disaster. These are images, President, that we cannot forget, just as we cannot forget the demand for truth and justice that comes from the families of the victims, which, as a state and as institutions, we have a duty to respond to. As we await the outcome of the unwavering and serious work being carried out by the Trani Public Prosecutor's Office, we have closed, as far as we are concerned, the Commission's investigation, the results of which we will be making known by the end of this month. It is our contribution to the need for clarity, truth and justice that we owe to the victims, to their loved ones, but also to all citizens and all citizens. Security, Madam President, is an issue which we cannot and must not fail to address, because the pain we experienced during that tragic accident does not turn, on every anniversary, into a rhetorical commemoration, but instead is the driving force not only of the search for truth but also of the commitment to prevention. [[Applause from the PD Group, and from Senators Bencini and Romans Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u50	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, the film industry is at present at a standstill. The movie workers stay at home, the producers don't shoot. In November 2016, a new law on cinema was passed with trumpet rings: Renzi and Franceschini receive great authors, directors, actors - all supporters of the yes to the referendum - convinced that the former Premier would relaunch the industry with 400 million euros. The law provided that the largest slice was for the big producers and included automatisms that favored those who achieved significant economic and artistic results. Today everything is still, you do not work and you do not produce. Why? The first reason is that he has messed with the rules of the 2015 Stability Act. So let's talk a long time ago. And already in 2016 almost blocked the whole sector because there were no implementing decrees. The second reason is that, after the adoption of the film law, the film has not changed. The story has remained the same: they continue to block everything missing the implementing decrees. The third reason is that in April the famous episode of "Report" was aired and we discover that the problem is not only the blessed implementing decrees but also the potential illicit ones that emerge between banks, authors and producers. The result is that the investigation of the Finance Guard starts, the Ministry shakes and everything gets stuck. The fourth reason is the bickering between Rotelli, president of Anica, the Ministry and small producers. Because even small producers demand that the implementing decrees be fair and that, rightly, they also respect and not only Anica in the definition of the rules and automatisms for the provision of the funds of tax credit. So, I'm asking the government to move because the situation is really dramatic. Mibact and Mise must make the implementing decrees, otherwise this year, until the end of 2017 and beyond, the sector will be blocked and the workers will stay at home. We're gonna keep pushing. I and my colleague, Mrs Montevecchi, who also dealt with the measure, will present another question, but the Government must move because, otherwise, they will be just words and we will stop the great Italian cultural industry, fundamental for the country. [[Applause from Senators Amidei, Blund and Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u53	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I rise again in this House to call for the appointment of the senators who are to compose the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into the post-Eagle reconstruction. I do this for the umpteenth time, and I will do it every week until we proceed to its actual composition. On 28 June, after my speech at the end of the sitting, President Grasso assured us that the Presidency has already urged and will once again urge only the two Groups which have not submitted the nominations and which will take care of the Presidency to try to acquire all the nominations. Two parliamentary groups have not, therefore, yet designated the senators who should be part of the Commission of Inquiry and have, in fact, so far prevented the Commission of Inquiry from being operational. Perhaps - and I am also addressing the Presidency directly here - it would be important to know which groups do not want to be clear about national and local political responsibilities for some of the things that are not transparent about the use of reconstruction funds. And it is a testimony to the fact that the city of the Eagle and the craters is a city. I would remind the Presidency once again that the Commission of Inquiry was decided by this House on 10 November last, with the approval of the relevant document at my first signature. Since then, there has been a very broad period of time which would have enabled us to do an incisive job. I would therefore ask you, Madam President, in accordance with Article 2 (1) of the document establishing the Commission of Inquiry, to proceed as soon as possible to the appointment of members, once again calling on the parliamentary groups which are responsible for it to propose promptly to the senators who intend to be part of the Commission. As an alternative, let us state the reasons - and above all the two parliamentary groups - which have so far effectively prevented the start of this important Commission of Inquiry. Let us start work quickly: it is now a rightful act towards the citizens of the Eagle. [[Applause from Senators Blondo and Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u56	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on a current subject which we are taking note of in this morning's newspapers. I thought that the question that some Members of this House have put on a very sensitive issue today, yesterday, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, had already been clarified: an issue concerning the debate we had in this House today on vaccines. What drives me today to do an intervention at the end of the session? In the meantime, because there has been no time to intervene, since the time of the debate has come, but to draw your attention, President, person of great heart, very sensitive, so that you can bring back to President Grasso the doubt that we all have in our hearts and minds about a very important fact, which we would like to understand before voting. You know better than I do, Madam President, that the vaccination plan put in place by the Ministry and by Lorenzin has been prepared by four scientific societies and two characters, Ricciardi and Pecorelli. According to the newspapers - I hope it does not correspond to truth - two of the multinationals that participated have built a chair for Professor Ricciardi while of Pecorelli it is said - I do not know if it corresponds to reality - that in 2015 he had even resigned for a conflict of interests: it was established, that is, a conflict of interest for this gentleman who is called Pecorelli and that today is one of the two who draws up the vaccination plan at national level. I am addressing you, Mr President, because I do not know where to turn: I am very confused, I no longer understand anything, I have difficulty understanding how Italian is the truth: someone tells me that 12 vaccines are very important, then we go down to 10 (so two were not important). A plan that cannot be understood where it comes from and where it comes from; which is called urgent but then at the last moment can also be done political mediation. I turn to you, then, with my heart in my hand, as a family father and not as a senator: do you please want to clarify, as President - I say this to you to tell Grasso - what is being read in the newspapers today and what we have learned through the media, that this plan put in place is not in the interest of the country but only and exclusively in the interest of some lobby? I am not against vaccines; I am in favour of those useful vaccines, but I am against those that only serve to enrich the pharmaceutical lobby and to harm your son, President, my son and the son of those who do not think like me but who is the son of a father and a mother. We parliamentarians have an obligation to defend Italians... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, he's doing an intervention he shouldn't do. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you from my heart, a heart of father and senator of the Republic. I conclude by asking for some light to be able to decide in the most serene way and in the interest of the country. I believe that we are all in and outside this Parliament, who are pros and who are ready, trying to do the interests of our children, the children of our friends and even those who are not friends. Mr President, I would ask you to pass on my request to President Grasso, so that he can take responsibility for it before men and before God.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-856.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.16 a.m.
