ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 23 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00589, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, 1-00590, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, 1-00697 (text 3), presented by Senator Di Biagio and other senators, 1-00704, presented by Senator Blundo and other senators, 1-00715, presented by Senator Petraglia and other senators, 1-00716, presented by Senator Bocchino and other senators, 1-00718, presented by Senator Puglisi and other senators, 1-00730, presented by Senator Pelino and other senators, 1-00731, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, and 1-00732, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on teachers of the second category and on the certification of precarious teachers. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 21 February the motions were presented and the discussion and reply of the representative of the Government took place. I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented. As a result, motions Nos 1, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 5, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, I would like to ask the G1 draftsmen if they wish to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u5	Mr President, I would like to briefly explain the agenda for the G1 because the premises for the three motions that have been withdrawn (the one I signed and those which were signed by the Senator of Biagio and Senator Barani) have already been understood by this House. However, we wanted to summarise on a single agenda the commitments we make to the Government, since in the 7th Commission, public education and cultural heritage, we are holding hearings on the draft legislative decree on the initial training system and the recruitment of teachers. This inside contains a transitional rule that, in our opinion, must be modified in order to try to give an answer - after having absorbed most of the finishing rankings, thanks to the extraordinary plan of entry into the role of Law No 107 of 2015 - in the sense of stabilization also of the second and third classes teachers. The agenda therefore commits the Government to continue the progressive consolidation, initiated by the Budget Act for 2017, of the de facto staff in the staff of schools' autonomy, which also includes the posts of support to ensure the necessary continuity of teaching, corresponding to the actual needs of pupils and students with disabilities; to monitor and censor the consistency of the graduations at exhaustion and the graduations of merit of the contest currently being closed, in order to determine the needs of teachers also in relation to the teaching classes for which the respective graduations at exhaustion and graduations of merit are currently exhausted or close to exhaustion, harmonizing the necessary requirements of the transitional phase with the timing and modalities for the start of the new recruitment system; to define appropriate measures, including in the regulatory framework, in order to propose a simplified reserved route of entry into the role of teachers enrolled in the second belt of the school graduations; to provide for modalities of entry into the role of teachers who have completed at least thirty-six months of service entered in the second and third tiers of the institute. These arrangements will have to provide simplified reserved routes, modifying the transitional phase provided for in Article 17 of the draft legislative decree implementing the letter b) of paragraph 181 of Article 1 of Law No 107 of 2015, now to the examination of the competent parliamentary committees, and taking into account the considerable jurisprudence in the matter; to determine how many places will be available to the second and third classes of institute and for how long the transitional phase will last, referred to in the previous commitment; To ensure the recruitment of specialized support teachers; to allow young graduates adequate access to the roles of the school; to fully exploit the training and experience of teachers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u6	Colleagues, before giving the floor to the representative of the Government, I urge the presenters of the motions to acquire written copy of the rewordings, because after the "reading" - or not - of the last time, I think it is appropriate to make an assessment, as to the acceptance or rejection of the same, having a written text in hand. I would like to inform the authors that, if they so wish, a specific document has been distributed by the Presidency. In order to give an opinion on the G1 agenda and, if necessary, to supplement the opinion on the motions under discussion, the Secretary of State for Education, University and Research, Dr De Filippo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u7	Mr President, senators and senators, I would like to make a very brief comment on the debate. First of all, as the representative of the Government did at the previous sitting, I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues who have spoken not ritually on a subject which the Government considers very important (the one of the school) and which, in this case, is above all that of the staff who work in the school. This staff - said not ritually and not formally - deserves a great deal of attention from Parliament and, of course, in the actions that the Government is carrying out and will continue to do even more in the coming months and years. In recent years, the school world has changed profoundly thanks to reform law no. 107 of 2015. In particular, the extraordinary recruitment plan has allowed 100,000 teachers to take on an indeterminate role for years enrolled in the finishing rankings, reducing its consistency by about three quarters. However, this important stabilisation work has not completely resolved - and the Government is aware of this - the phenomenon of precariousness, which had been fed by measures and mechanisms known to most for many decades. To date, the students enrolled in the run-up rankings, which had been drastically reduced after the extraordinary recruitment plan, have been increased again following the inclusion in the same rankings of the magisterial graduates, in execution of well-known favourable judicial measures, issued in the context of litigation during the months preceding this discussion. Even in the light of this, a precise monitoring and census of the enrolled in the run-up rankings - work that we are working on on on time also for the school rankings - in particular for their territorial distribution and for classes of competition, as well as their length of service. This - in our opinion - is the assumption on which will be based an indispensable, necessary and rigorous phase of transition, provided by Article 17 of the legislative decree in the course of discussion in the Committees of Chamber and Senate, that it gives answers to those who have been waiting for them for years, like the teachers already qualified enrolled in the first and second bands and those who have matured a certain number of years of service in the third; these are points that many of the motions signal and insert among the commitments of the Government. Answers - I would like to say with great confidence - that this Government intends to give, taking into account also and above all the debate that is developing in the Committees on the subject in relation to the draft legislative decree on the recruitment and initial training of teachers. As has been pointed out, there have been many hearings that have involved many audiences in the world of precariousness that have organized themselves and that are represented. We look very respectfully at them, because they have guaranteed the quality of our school over the years. We are therefore following very closely the work of the Commissions and also the work that the parliamentary groups are developing in those fora. At the end of the hearings and of the work of the Commissions (also in relation to the motions that we are discussing today), specific paths reserved and simplified within the legislative decree implementing the delegation in the matter of recruitment will be foreseen. I use the words "reserved" and "simplified" precisely for the sake of respect for the work that the Commissions are doing and, therefore, without anticipating decisions that we must take in a synergy that I consider very positive and virtuous, which this House also points out in today's debate. One final remark. To facilitate this operation, the Government, as is well known, has already allocated 400 million euros in the 2017 budget law to allow a consolidation operation of the so-called legal staff and places activated for some time in the so-called de facto staff. In addition, this operation can ensure a further increase in the number of admissions, which can be arranged as early as next school year. In this sense, I would like to express with great conviction an opinion in favour of the agenda signed by Senators Puglisi, Di Biagio, Barani and others, whose commitments, even in relation to the few reflections I have wanted to point out to you, are fully in line with the address that this Government intends to follow. Mr President, I do not understand whether I should give my opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u8	I would say that it is better to be on the written text, because the size of the rewording does not allow for a simple oral summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u9	DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. The rewordings are very broad and I would like to interpret them in a very transparent way. By putting all the very important questions on which the Government does not intend to react in superficial terms, so having an interest in accepting in each of those commitments ideas that are shared by us, we have been entertained in a hypothesis of rewording that - I am aware - for the dynamics of this House are many broad and substantial, but I would like to consider them precisely because of the sense of respect that the proposers point out to us, because they are very important points that - I am convinced - in the transitional phase of the legislative decree and Article 17 contained in it we will be able to deal extensively with and resolve.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u12	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, in this House we never cease to wonder about the way in which things are done. Last week, precisely last Tuesday, undersecretary D'Onghia read a series of reformulations. We asked in vain to have the text of those rewordings which - I repeat - were read in the Chamber last Tuesday; rightly the offices of the Senate, not being in possession of the text of those rewordings, could not Give it to us. We have now received the text of the reformulations, but this morning we also learned from the newspapers that a new agenda for the majority was coming (then we learned that this is a variable majority, because the AL-A Group has also been included in the majority on the school), so the astonishment is increasing. We are therefore always talking about school with the raids of the last moment. Among other things, the Undersecretary referred to 100,000 recruitments. Again this morning the newspapers reported numbers, which were also read in the Chamber last week by Senator Puglisi, presumed to be precarious teachers in the rankings when they were exhausted. All I'm saying is that it's been two years, and especially in the last year after the start of the implementation phase of the provision on good school, that we ask the government for official numbers, and not those sent to some. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petraglia, you are touching on the merits of the measure, but you will be able to speak about it in your explanation of vote. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Since a new agenda and new considerations have been presented to us, I would like to ask for a brief suspension of the sitting of this House to give us a chance to understand what has been given to us and to evaluate it also in the light of the rewordings, but I would like this House to have a serious debate on the school after the disaster in 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u13	Colleagues, if there is no opposition, I would like to suspend the sitting briefly in order to allow the discussion of the agenda presented this morning and the proposals for rewording, because the content of some of them has been acquired by us this morning. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.40 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 11.41 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u16	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, in this matter of good school, of continuity of teaching, of the need to guarantee the continuity of teaching and to avoid deportations of teachers to the North, our Group, together with most of the groups present here, has tabled a rather articulated motion, which wants to avoid demagogy, easy denunciation, scandal shouted and if anything wants to have feet on the ground and note that the situation, complex and complex, must also be judged over time. However, we cannot think - I say to the Undersecretary De Filippo - that the very respectable principle of didactic continuity can be resolved in a majority motion that, although we find interesting for some points, for others still leaves us puzzled. Among other things, it is important to say here, in the Senate Chamber, that the vulgate according to which the troubles, the disruptions and the debauchery of the law defined good school, namely Law No 107 of 2015, are mainly dependent on the southern teachers is an accusation in which frankly traces of racism reside. There is still prejudice for the South and the South; the suspicion is that the ruling class in the South is permanently attached to the parasitic and positional incomes, almost to the status quo. On the contrary, we believe that it is necessary to guarantee the serenity of teaching, from the North to the South, to all those who have the qualifications; we have seen that we are talking about qualified people and professionalism who present all the titles in order to be able to receive attention from the State, so that the few rights are respected, starting with the right to full serenity of teaching. We know that in the South there is a prevailing condition of non-alignment, as also happens in the northern regions, between the number of teachers and the number of learners; there is a fairly disadvantageous proportion. If we compare, for example, the numbers of pupils per class of Lombardy with those of Puglia, this discrasia appears remarkable. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that we must pay our full attention to teachers who have the right to return to teaching in the South. In the meantime, and I would like to conclude, I would like to sum up some of the principles that we have highlighted in our motion. I am referring to the invitation to the Government, by the Conservative and Reformist Group Directorate Italy, to put in place every useful measure to reduce the precariousness in Italian schools of every order and grade, allowing precarious teachers with assignments of annual supplements to be regularly employed; to put in place a new supply/demand programming in the school system that already from next year 2017-2018 takes due account of the needs of the teachers and the interests of the learners; to ensure the permanent stabilization of all the places of support, also in order to guarantee students with disabilities a certain continuity of teaching. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Liuzzi, do you accept the proposed reformulation? LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, we welcome the proposal for a rewording, although we have identified a number of critical points in it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the National Council of Rome, Vittorio Emanuele II, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u20	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to inform you that we do not accept the proposed reformulation, because it seems to us that once again we have not understood the meaning of what we are asking for for the protection of all precarious teachers. You want to go in the direction that the government wants to impose on this country, but we continue to say that when you talk about school you can not always proceed with the imposition: you did it with the law n. 107 of 2015 on good school, you crashed, you are moving on wrong. We keep telling you that you are wrong and you are moving forward in your direction. Mr President, I am not even going to talk here about the problems of the teachers in the South who come to the North, nor about the fact that there are alternates who come from the South to the North, stay one day and then come home because perhaps they have sick relatives, the ingrown nail, they have to go on vacation, they have to do more than Bertoldo and then we have empty classes. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] I also do not like to talk about the fact that in some regions we will move from de facto staff to legal staff, that in others teachers will be stabilized and in others, where alas we have been less clever, we will have the usual problems that this Government does not want to solve. I like to talk about the fact that the results of the 2016 competition have shown that we were right in denouncing criticalities and injustices; moreover, as you well know the derogation from Law No 107 of 2015 with the extraordinary plan of mobility has added chaos on chaos. As we have seen written in all the newspapers, the results have been open classes, vacant posts even after the guillotine contest: for example in Lombardy hundreds of places have not been assigned to the roles, there are winners without chair, winners not yet stabilized in the presence of places, contests being held for various competition classes. The result is that we have angry parents. In fact, if we want to talk about public school, if we fill our mouths by saying that it must meet the needs of parents, we must provide a service and then we must not complain if parents send their children to private schools. Now the delegations to Law No 107 of 2015 are being examined by the competent Commission, so we are in a transitional phase, so now is the time to act, to prove that we were wrong, to make corrections and the motions were in that direction. The proposals made during the hearings, including those who have been auditioned, provide solutions that serve teachers and students. For example, regional chess competitions are proposed in relation to the real needs of the territories, as we have always proposed thanks to the important work carried out in previous years. There is a need for teachers, especially in some disciplines, who have already exhausted the run-out rankings (GAE). On those places we have the qualified precarious, often also of third belt, with the MAD (demand for provision); however, in the end nobody cares, as usual. The logic, Mr President, wants the stabilisation of a person who has been working on those places for years, in the interests of students and the efficiency of his work, the efficiency of a teacher who knows his work; does not compete where people who have never taught in their lives and who by chance become teachers (and then our students, unfortunately, do not benefit). Mr President, we need competitions to recruit where it is needed, without waste of resources. And the proposals of the associations always go in that direction. We avoid cumbersome and useless competitions and we select on merit. This is our proposal: to select the teachers on merit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It can be done because we are in the transition phase and here you can decide. This time the majority can do it. Decide the majority - follow the counsel from time to time. So, once again, Mr President, there will be a political responsibility here for those who want teachers to be chosen on merit and for those who want, instead, "let's all love each other" and what is happening right now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u21	There is a representation of students and teachers from the Germanic School of Rome, Rome, who are attending our work in the Chamber, in the 2nd order of the public. To them we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u24	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, as a group, of course, we are pleased to vote on the G1 agenda, which fully covers the commitments that we asked the Government for on our motion. It committed itself to the Government: to consider the need to put in place the appropriate regulatory remedies, in order to allow teachers in possession of qualifying qualifications currently registered in the second category of school rankings to be included in the school rankings when they are exhausted; to put in place the appropriate interventions to address and solve the problems arising from the conditional forecast of the overcoming of the thirty-six months of service for teachers enrolled in the second section of the school rankings, in order to ensure their adequate stability; to assess the opportunity to start new systems of qualification and recruitment, also in order to allow young graduates to enter the roles of the school (our Group is very committed to ensuring that young people enter the school, because, as I have already said in general discussion, we believe that perhaps we should do this good by looking at the good school and at a modern school to be able to count all those teachers who have passed the sixty-sassant two years for a shift with young people, who in a modern school are more suitable than those who have a superior service; we believe that this is good for the good school and a modern school; to be able to be able to have every particular measure to be able to be able to be able to have in continuity with the most suitable needs to have, even to have the most suitable support in the most suitable conditions of the most suitable conditions for the most suitable, in order, in order to have, in order to have, in order, in order to have, in order to have, in order, in order to have, in order to have, in order, in order to have, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order to ensure that, in order to have, in order to have, in order to have, in order to have, in order to have, in order to have, in order to have, in order, in order, in order to have, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order, the interests of, in order, in order, the interests of, in order, in order, in particular, the interests of, the interests of, the interests of, the interests of, in order, in order, the interests of, in order, the interests of, in particular, in order, the interests of, the interests of, the interests of, in particular, the interests of, the interests of, in particular, There is also a need for a few words on this last point. As I have already had the opportunity to say in general debate, we give too much autonomy - which becomes a sort of anarchy - to school leaders, who, while having an interesting salary from an economic point of view, do not have the competence to be able to harmonize, be responsible, to be managers and diligent in making the school work. An executive must perform a programming and control function. Being a doctor and being our Group made by several doctors (senator Compagnone behind me is one of many), last time I made an example: a surgery cannot be started by a surgeon who then is moved to another surgery and is replaced by another and then by another, which ends the previous surgery. Similarly, it is not possible in our school to have a teacher who, after three months from the beginning of the school year, is replaced by another and after another two months by another. The patient, in this case the learner, the pupil is no longer able to have a harmonious, unified vision of formation and teaching. So the turnover, the precariousness, must be solved and programmed both at the level of provision, then of regional managers, and of school leaders. In the light of what has been said, we believe that the agenda that we have signed solves these problems. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u27	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly, first of all in order to express my opposition to the motion tabled by the majority, which seems to propose a logic strongly pursued by the previous government at the legislative level: that of finding worse remedies than evil. I would like to stress this point because, as far as the rules are concerned, several times in the work that has been done in the Commission on so-called good school, the majority have been warned of propositions that would lead to regulatory chaos. This is all the more confirmed by the fact that we started from a measure that had its foundation in an administrative measure, the daughter of a judgment of the European Court of Justice that obliged us to remedy the deception that the Italian State had committed in many years to the detriment of the so-called precarious, and we have arrived, on the basis of initiatives halfway between those clientele and not knowing what to do, even to the figure of the enhancer, that is to say the only case in the world of teacher who does not have the pupils. A teacher, therefore, who finds himself lonely in the classrooms of the professors to meditate on his own condition and who, precisely for this reason, that is, the fact that he is a person who continues to take the salary even if he does not have to do anything well defined, is also invisible to his colleagues. However, wishing to insist on this way of making laws, we have come to propose a strange synthesis between the path of didactic continuity and the desire to meet those who had to reunite with their families, determining, precisely, administrative chaos. Not content with what has been done, we return, through these motions, to hand over to the country an indisputable principle of fact. When Renzi was there, if one thing was okay it was Renzi, if one thing went wrong it was his ministers' fault. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Now that Renzi is no longer there, we must swing - and continuously - between what good a minister could do and what will certainly be configured in public opinion as yet another disaster; so, in order not to blame the Minister on duty what can be the occasional disaster, we prefer to do this through parliamentary motions. No, thank you. I believe that Parliament has every right to avoid this kind of mill, which is why we want to put on the shoulders of the 315 senators who survived the referendum the disasters that a majority unable to make the laws intends to re-produce, and that is why we will certainly not vote on the motion proposed by the majority and we will try to exploit what is good in the motions proposed by the other parliamentary forces. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u30	Conte (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions we have discussed, albeit with different facets, have all come to the subject of the stabilisation of the precarious teaching staff belonging to the second and third classes, for years employed in teaching without guarantee of the job, but above all without the possibility of teaching continuity in Italian schools. Law No 107 of 2015 provided for the recruitment of teaching staff to take place through competition, transparent and democratic procedures, in line with constitutional principles, therefore absolutely acceptable; in February 2016 the post-Law No 107 was launched, a procedure which was to end in good time for the beginning of the current school year, but which has not yet been completed in some regions and for some rankings. The law no. 107 also provided to remedy the long-standing question of the presence in service of a substantial contingent of precarious staff, belonging to different types generated by the succession of different measures over the years, measures which, referring to the time in which they were issued, all had the same objective of eliminating the precarious forms of teaching staff, but which instead had the consequence of increasing their number to unthinkable levels. The law cited has established that the precarious persons included in the graduations when exhausted were allowed to stabilize, at the same time excluding other types of precarious persons in possession of qualifying qualifications or who in any case boasted several years of service in the public school. It has therefore come to create a situation of unequal treatment between the different types of precarious persons, all united by the same situation of being employed in teaching for several years or of being in possession of an enabling title and all with the legitimate expectation of being included in the school staff for an indefinite period, being in possession of the requirement provided for by the legislation in force at the time of achievement. It was then established that the stabilisation procedure initiated under Law No 107 led to only partial coverage of the places available for the current school year. These two events have led to the well-known situation of serious malfunctions that have occurred in the coverage of the available places; very frequently for their coverage it has been used precisely to the teachers of second and third classes, teachers still possessing a qualifying title and with various years of experience of didactic activity behind. In some regions, given the emptying of some rankings as a result of mobility, instead, it has become even necessary to use teachers just inserted in the school rankings. The forecasts of Law 107 that the teachers included in the AGE and the number of places put in competition were sufficient to cover the needs of staff for the three-year period have therefore proved to be abundantly underestimated. The motions we have discussed all pursue the dual objective of covering as soon as possible, and since next school year, the available places and of avoiding further situations of litigation whose outcome, if in line with the actions already concluded, would see the state succumbing. In essence, recognizing the validity of the provisions of Law No 107 for the modalities of recruitment, the Government is asked to revisit the rules relating to the stabilization of the teachers belonging to the second and third bands. The draft legislative decree no. 377, currently being examined by the parliamentary committees responsible for issuing the opinions envisaged, partly addresses the issue raised; this act, with appropriate amendments and additions, appears to be more appropriate and rapid in order to address definitively the issues raised and, with appropriate adaptations, could guarantee, from the next school year, the presence of the final teachers from the first days of school. The attribution of the competitive value to the path followed by the teachers who participated in the active training (TFA) and the resulting title does not fail to the principle of inclusion in public bodies through competition, as those who are in the status of teacher TFA have passed both the access tests, and the exams for the achievement of the qualification according to the rules foreseen at the time; neither are there any situations of redundancy of personnel, given the existing situation, highlighted in all the interventions. The postponement of the vote last week allowed, on the one hand, to complete the numerous hearings on the draft legislative decree n. 377, acquiring additional elements of information, on the other hand, to give rise to a confrontation with the Miur and between political groups, arriving at an agreed motion - as had been in the wish of many - which was then replaced by an agenda, which will certainly give strong indications for the modification of the aforementioned draft legislative decree n. 377, in the direction of giving rapid response not only to the expectations of the precarious, who otherwise would have remained in the limbo of work uncertainty, but above all to resolve the criticality of the coverage of the posts of the school staff since the beginning of the next school year. It seems essential - and the agenda demands this - that reference should be made not so much to the total number of all AGEs, but to the situation of each individual ranking, in order to make the staff of the individual schools consistent with the actual demands, especially in relation to the staff of autonomy. As a People's Area Group, of course, we will be voting in favour of the majority motion, because we have been included in all indications that we have considered strong and indispensable for our Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u33	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ingenuously we have seriously thought that bringing back today, after about two years, to the Senate Chamber the debate on the school could have taken a different path, in the direction of an analysis of what has happened in the school in this last year and a half, with real data, not only on recruitment, but also in the light of the fact that the only Minister who has been replaced in the Gentiloni Government Silveri is the Minister Giannini (and this was obviously an act taken of how wrong Law No. 107 of 2015 was). Even in the light of the programmatic statements of the Minister Fedeli, who in many points recalled the discontinuity with the choices made so far, we would have expected a change and that the announced discontinuity could translate into concrete acts. I see that instead we continue to continue in the wake opened by law no. 107 of 2015, both in the discussion and in the choices that will be made regarding the delegations of which the two Chamber and Senate Commissions are talking. Once again we are perplexed at this total closure to find shared solutions, but with certain commitments. Here the theme that we pose is the extraordinary plan of hiring for all precarious: of course, to do so we should know the official numbers of precarious and hiring, data that is not possible to have to date. From what I read on the agenda of the majority, across to a piece of opposition, even one of the commitments that we ask the government is to monitor and censor the consistency of the rankings when they are exhausted. Mr Undersecretary, I hope that at least somewhere, in some office in the Miur, there are certain data and I take this opportunity to renew my request to answer our questions, so as to make the data official to all of us and to make a reasoning. There are no real commitments on the agenda of the majority to go in that direction. There is a desire to continue exactly in the choices made so far, referring to a debate that we will certainly have when examining the delegations. Here the theme is how to give certainty and school continuity to teachers and pupils and how to stabilize the precarious of the second and third bands that have reached the thirty-six months, establishing the times, what once was called the multiannual program. Are we able to make a firm commitment on this, regardless of what is foreseen in the delegations? There is no election campaign on school; there is no electoral campaign on the daily life of those who have been teaching in schools for years and cannot be done with vague commitments. In this week of postponement we would have expected the majority to make certain commitments, but the commitments are still lacking. I understand that having to give signals because the election campaign is approaching, the good school suddenly seems to have no mothers, fathers, sisters and brothers, and perhaps, listening to some speeches, it seems to have been voted by the opposition, but I think that for the general interest it is necessary to assume responsibility, especially from the majority. In that case, we too will not lose our share of the opposition. Even today, however, an opportunity has been missed. As far as the proposed reformulations are concerned, we obviously do not accept them. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u34	Senator Bocchino, do you accept the proposed reformulation of motion 716 at your first signature? BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). No, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u37	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I expected that a different reasoning could be made in this House: a real sharing of serious and obliging commitments to teachers in the school world who have so far been in great difficulty. We know very well, as we have said several times, that teachers have had to face courses, with selective and multi-selective tests, but they remain unhired: they remain precarious to serve in schools with places in fact and not of law. I expected serious commitments to be made to ensure that the staff in fact was transformed into legal staff by 2017, since those who serve for the thirty-six months in fact this period is not even recognized by the judgments that are issued; in fact, there is this great difficulty in seeing recognized their work in addition to their own studies and skills already spent for more than fifteen years in the Italian public school. We had the hope that the commitments, proposed by us with our motions, or at least reworded in a manner suited to the real needs of the school, would be accepted, because the Minister and colleagues of the other party groups know very well what the demands of all the committees and associations of the school world are. However, there has been proposed a rewording that responds exactly to the content of the delegation, a delegation that does not correspond to these real needs, let alone to the appropriate solutions for what has been created with the assumptional plan provided for by Law 107. There is still talk of selective evidence when the competition has already been unsuccessful in all respects: for the number of rejections (half of the participants), for the arrangements for carrying out this competition and because the competition phase has not yet been completed. So asking for selective evidence still in certainly very ambiguous forms would not make sense, also because they are people who have spent more than thirty-six months in de facto staff because the government has not yet wanted to transform the de facto staff into legal staff. Specialised support teachers are at risk of being put at the door; we have a precarious situation of AGE teachers, who are multi-prepared, have had more than one selection and have taken part in the selection courses that previous governments have wanted; we have very high numbers, which Mr Puglisi told us in the Chamber in the discussion of these motions, revealing figures that were not yet clear. However, we must note that in this House our motions have in fact been rejected and that the Government continues to go on an inadequate road and does not, I repeat, respond to the real needs of the Italian public school and the precarious. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, do you confirm that you do not accept the proposals for rewording your motion? BLUNDO (M5S). We do not welcome them at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u40	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are still discussing - it is almost a laugh if it is not tragic and so important - the law called good school; then we are talking about school and we are taking away the good one. What is happening in this House today is what we and all the opposition groups had sadly predicted. This is a bad school law. The law that has been made is wrong in method, form and substance. I think it is right to remember the method: we have not been able to discuss the so-called good school law - I repeat that it is Kafkian to call it "good" - not even in the Commission; we have not been able to give contributions in the Assembly, because the classic maxi amendment has arrived, typical of the Renzi government. So there is no debate in this House; in particular, there is no debate in an assembly like that of the Senate that was to be abolished (we have then seen that 60% of Italians said that that constitutional reform was also wrong, resulting in the fall of the government that I was talking about earlier). It has not been discussed in this House or in the Commission. Forza Italia had tabled a number of amendments, but also all the oppositions. I remember that the whole centre-right had said that it would withdraw amendments to discuss only the most important ones in order to facilitate, because the school is everyone's, it is not left-wing. The school of the left is the one that prepares for chronic assistantism, but we want instead a school that is meritocratic, made for the good of the children. I refuse to talk about good school law; I apologise to the House and colleagues in the PD, but we cannot continue to call it good school because I remember everything that has happened since that day and the breakdown that has occurred in the school. I come from Veneto and just remind me how many teachers are missing in the Venetian schools. Just remind me how the teachers were treated, with movements made without thinking about their families: teachers moved for example from Sicily to Trentino-Alto Adige, from Trentino to Marche. These are things that should not exist, because the professors - a colleague did well to remember it before - become points of reference for the pupils. It would be easy to remember that you wanted to reward assistantism (I don't want to use the term "client"). He didn't reward the credit: those teachers who did qualifying training internships were penalized by paying them out of their pocket. But the government and the left are wondering why the competition couldn't even fill out these lists when they were exhausted? They wonder why? Even the professors shouted it in every way that the solution proposed was not good. Then let's think about the number of students in the classes. We should have a reasonable number when we talk about public school, because for public school it is important and form. I don't want to go into the argument about peer schools, completely forgotten by the left-wing government. I understand that you are culturally far from helping peer schools, but you should ask what would happen if the peer schools we know (for example those of the nuns) shut down; how many pupils would the public school be formed? I still do not want to remember - it was done by Senator Mauro - the figure of the professor who is in the classroom without pupils. It's funny! In the meritocratic school there are teachers in the class who are paid without pupils. Other colleagues have mentioned how important it is for regions and provinces to be able to recruit. It would be easy to recall the European Court of Justice, the TAR of Lazio, but I believe that good school should not be built on the judgments of the judiciary as on common sense and an idea of a school of all. For this reason, all the motions have been tabled and reformulations have been proposed (on the one presented by our Group, the first signatory, Senator Pelino, will respond). It is clear, however, that there is a maximum discontent. The majority's agenda is absolutely general and superficial and does not lead to any improvement: it postpones the debate on the delegation. Once again we come to this House not to talk about concrete things, but to ask for a blank delegation. You have already taken it - we have not given it to you - on the law on good school and we have seen the results. Therefore, judgment can only be negative. That is why we are calling for a vote in favour of our motion, which seeks at least, like other motions from other parliamentary groups, to make a significant improvement. The damage is so great that I think the next government will have to lose out on it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u41	Senator Marin, Senator Pelino, do you confirm that you do not accept the proposals for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u42	Mr President, in general we welcome them except for point 5 of the device, which I would like the Government to have.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u43	The government does the rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u44	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). They're accepted, but I wanted to talk to the government about a specific point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us finish the explanations of vote first.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u47	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, I would like to remind you that the debate in this House on the G1 agenda stems from the fact that the League and the 5 Star Movement have been holding agendas for many months. It is not, therefore, an excuse to make suggestions to a Minister or a Undersecretary, who are here at the moment and who have followed the work of this House in these hours. In this House we have seen a debate which is sometimes presumptuous. I am thinking of Senator Marin's statements that he does not remember - it would have sufficed to read the agenda that we present - that Minister Gelmini had cut 85,000 chairs; the rankings were reopened in an absolutely improper way and would have led to further uncertainties; the schools of specialization in secondary education (SSIS) were closed; the training internships were set up with no competitive value; no competition has been launched in the last five years by the Berlusconi Government. When it comes to school, one must remember the one who has lived these seasons. Senator Marin doesn't listen to me, but he can read the report of the session. I really believe that we can still continue in the footsteps of a path and this is an opportunity to talk to each other. I also find it unacceptable for Senator Mario Mauro to talk about clientele initiatives. I believe that there has been intellectual honesty in going to solve a problem, because, as has been pointed out by several parties, the precariousness of teachers began many years ago, and since then many initiatives have been put in place, none of which have been decisive, by different governments, which have acted on the basis of different models of initial training and recruitment of teachers. The result was this huge and messy stratification of the norms and an unsustainable precariousness of the teachers to whom, precisely, Law No 107 of 2015 tried to remedy by providing for the recruitment plan and a new system of initial training and recruitment of the teachers. It was not a blank delegation: clear things are written about that delegation law and today there is a legislative decree. The Minister Faithful, during the hearing at the Joint Commissions 7a and VII of Senate and Chamber, last week reiterated both the results that had been achieved significantly reducing the phenomenon of precariousness, with extraordinary recruitments, is what the Undersecretary has also mentioned here, that is, the objective of giving life to a legislative instrument that leads to the definitive stabilization of precarious teachers, guaranteeing, in this way, also the didactic continuity for students. This is done through the second element: the legislative decree, currently under discussion in the Chamber and Senate Commissions, which includes reordering, adaptation and simplification of the system of initial training and access in the roles of teacher in the secondary school to make it functional to the social and cultural enhancement of the profession. The aim of the legislative decree, which finally surpasses the current system of access to the teaching profession, is to draw a new model of initial training and access of the teaching staff of the first and second grade secondary school, both on common places and on those of support. In order to achieve the transitional phase, specific rules are laid down in Article 17. However, the agenda would like to indicate the instruments needed to better address the decline in Article 17. First of all, it is called for to continue the progressive consolidation, initiated by the Budget Act for 2017, of the de facto establishment plan. And again. With regard to the problem of rankings, their consistency, the real needs of teachers, we have to tidy up. It's important, and that's why we make a request to the government. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, let me finish, because this is the hottest issue. Coming to the teachers enrolled in the second section of the school rankings, it is considered right to realize for them a simplified reserved path of entry in role, as well as simplified reserved routes will have to be provided for teachers who have completed at least thirty-six months of service enrolled in the second and third classes of the school rankings. Moreover, it is necessary to determine how many posts will be available to the second and third groups of institutions and how long the transitional phase referred to in the previous commitment will last. All these objectives, including the recruitment of specialized support teachers and the possibility of giving new graduates adequate access to the roles of the school, are part of a larger design, certainly ambitious, but finally feasible, which allows to fully exploit the training and experience of the teachers on whom the burden weighs and - I say - certainly the honor of making our society better. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u48	We greet the teachers and students of the Istituto tecnologico tecnologico stato (State Technical Technical Institute) Silvano Fedi - Enrico Fermi di Pistoia, who are attending our work from the public forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u51	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in point 5 of motion 730 - which was first signed by Mr De Filippo - we asked for a derogation from the thirty-six months imposed by paragraph 131 of Article 1 of Law No 107 of 2015, so that we could define the problem of run-down rankings. I see that the government insists that we cannot exceed 36 months. I would like to understand the reason for this insistence: or the government is sure to put everything in place within 36 months - I wish it - otherwise this could be a way to fix AGE teachers once and for all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u54	DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. Mr President, that paragraph is also the result of intense activity with the European Commission, which - as you know - had initiated an infringement procedure, in order to avoid which precisely that paragraph was imagined. As you have noted, in the reformulation we largely take into account those who had this type of experience; but to reply or repeat that procedure would have been very complicated for our country, because that infringement procedure would have resulted in a very harsh sanction. For this reason, we have proposed our rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u55	Do you accept the rewording proposed by the Government, Senator Pelino? PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, we welcome you with confidence and hope that within 36 months the problem will be resolved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the Secretary to confirm that, where there is no rewording, the opinion should be taken against it. Is that so, Mr. Undersecretary? DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 589. SANTANGELO (M5S). We also call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means on subsequent motions and on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 589, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 590. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 590 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Motion No 697 (text 3) has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 704. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 704, tabled by Senator Blondo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 715. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 715 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 716. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Bocchino and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion No 716. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Motion No 718 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 730 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 730 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pelino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 731 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 731 (text 2), tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motion 732 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting, by electronic procedure, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Puglisi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u58	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now that the story of Fabiano Antoniani, in art dj Fabo, has had an epilogue, it is important to keep the memory alive and not to put aside the theme of euthanasia just because there are no more headlines on the front page. He had to go all the way to Switzerland to be allowed to leave with dignity, leaving a life that, after many attempts and great efforts, had decided no longer to live. Like Senator Maurizio Romani, he has never made a mystery of being in favour of legalization, obviously with careful regulation, of the biological will and of the accompaniment to the end of life. For this reason in 2014 we signed together the bill n. 1396, at the first signature of Senator Palermo, which provided for the refusal of health treatments and the lawfulness of euthanasia. By now that bill has been lying for three years, a time when politics and public opinion find themselves talking seriously (sometimes more, others less) about this delicate subject only when a case ends on the front pages of the newspapers and raises indignance and easy controversy. With those ingredients, however, the discussion does not progress; all that is obtained is an eternal return to the same themes, to the same reasons as yes or no; it is done, in short, constantly a moral question and you never get to face the moral one. No one, if the end-of-life procedure were legalized, would be forced into such a procedure; it is for the State to protect the dignity of its citizens by any means, even when unfortunately it is extreme. Civil rights are so important that they can be considered the basis of a free and social state, so they should not be exploited for political purposes, nor should they ever become so controversial that they lose their desire to face them. The function of politics is to regulate society, so it cannot afford to walk more slowly than society, to stand firm on itself or - worse - not to listen to it. [[Applause from Senators Laniece and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-771.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.39 p.m.
