ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11:06 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u4	I inform you that on 17 February 2017 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice - Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 13 of 17 February 2017 laying down urgent provisions for speeding up international protection proceedings and for combating illegal immigration - 2705.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00589 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, 1-00590, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, 1-00697 (text 3), presented by Senator Di Biagio and other senators, 1-00704, presented by Senator Blundo and other senators, 1-00715, presented by Senator Petraglia and other senators, 1-00716, presented by Senator Bocchino and other senators, 1-00718, presented by Senator Puglisi and other senators, 1-00730, presented by Senator Pelino and other senators, 1-00731, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and by other senators, and 1-00732, presented by Senator Barani and other senators, on teachers of the second category and on the certification of precarious teachers. I call Senator Centinario to illustrate motions no. 589 590.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u6	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that we are finally going back to talking about school, since more than a thousand days ago the former - fortunately former - President of the Council, Renzi, said in this House that school was his priority. But for over a thousand days the school has become its nightmare, given what has happened and given what has not been done in the world of school, for the injustices perpetrated by this Government and the previous one towards the world of school and the fact that the famous beautiful schools about which the former President of the Council spoke have not become beautiful. As a result, our students are still in the classrooms studying under the same conditions as they were before. In more than a thousand days, therefore, he lost a lot of time. Over the years, the system of recruiting teachers in Italy has produced thousands of precarious people with different working situations, often conflicting with each other. Some teachers are included in the run-up rankings, others in the school rankings, with rights depending on the group, second or third, different because of the different training systems. The exhaustion rankings (GAE) were created by then Minister Fioroni, in 2006, to try to put an end to the problem of historical precariousness, with the intention of reabsorbing all in three years. Obviously - as was logical - that was not the case, since after eleven years nothing has changed. On the contrary, the situation, Mr President, has become even more complicated. After the abolition of secondary education specialization schools (STS), active training courses (TFAs) with no competitive value and special enabling pathways (PASs) were established. In 2012 a competition was launched, but also open to non-enabled people. The school is a big mess. Coming to our days - alas, the confusion is added to another confusion with a former President of the Council who didn't understand anything at school - the Renzi Government felt that it could solve the enormous amount of precariousness settled over the years through the so-called law of good school - called it reform, but then, fortunately, a minimum of decency made him think that maybe it wasn't a reform - providing for an extraordinary plan of recruitment from the run-up rankings and the merit rankings of the 2012 competition, thus excluding qualified teachers through enabling paths (so-called TFA and PAS referred to in Ministerial Decree No 249 of 2010), qualified teachers through magisterial paths and by specialized degree in primary education sciences, all currently included in the second group of graduations of schools. If you remember, we were promised that they would all be hired and there would be no more precarious in the world of school. But more than a year has passed and the world of school still lives in the same conditions as it did before. Law No 107 of 2015 has changed in a structural way the rules for the recruitment and training of teaching staff, but for precarious teachers, who for years have played the role of alternates, the new legislation has provided only the possibility to participate in a national competition, not considering at all the experience gained in teaching and the ratings achieved, which the teachers paid out of their own pocket, strong of the promise of a stabilization never arrived. The paradox is that now, in order to be able to take part, they will have to compete and prove that they can teach, when they have already done so for years. The competition took place in 2016 leaving a trail of controversy on delays in the procedures and errors in the tests; it provided for the selection of about 63,000 teachers, whose recruitment would be defined over three years. But the data on the procedures concluded revealed, already in September, that not even half of the competitors had reached the orals, although a large slice of candidates were trained, qualified and already taught in schools. This prevented the coverage of competition posts and cast further shadows on a procedure involving a large proportion of candidates who, qualified and often already teachers in schools, were excluded from the competition, without giving them any possibility for future stabilisation. Moreover, among the various inconsistencies and real injustices perpetrated by the new law, the most obnoxious is contained in Article 1, paragraph 131, of Law No 107, which provides that from 1 September 2016 fixed-term employment contracts, concluded with teaching, administrative, technical and auxiliary staff at the state educational institutions for the coverage of vacancies, cannot exceed the total duration of thirty-six months, even non-continuous, as established by a judgment of the European Court of Justice. The school year began, many schools, to cover the annual posts remaining vacant for the school year 2016/2017, continued to draw on the rankings of the second group of schools and, therefore, the teachers who tried the competition. It is like saying that the state, while considering them unprepared at the time of the competition, calls them when they need to work as precarious and then maybe after three years they are fired, because this requires them to do the European Union. For years these teachers have allowed our children to have school education, covering the missing staff, but when it should, the State does not recognize their rights. In our opinion, before profoundly changing the system of recruitment of teachers, the Government should have fixed all the precariousness, not only considering the AGE, which are only one of the types of precariousness existing, leaving behind the school rankings. Today, in fact, in the second section of the institute there are tens of thousands of qualified teachers through training courses established by the State, who have already invested enormous resources of time and economics to receive such training. In conclusion, in the light of what has been highlighted and in conjunction with the examination in the Chambers, for the purposes of the expression of the opinion, of the Act of Government n. 377 concerning the reorganization of the system of initial training and access in the roles of teacher in secondary school, which however intervenes on the problem no less than from the school year 2020-2021, we ask for precise actions of the Government, possibly before the beginning of the next school year, to guarantee that future work, so far denied, to the qualified teachers of the second and third class. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u7	I call Senator Di Biagio to explain motion No. 697 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u8	Mr President, I shall confine myself to making brief political reflections and, if you will allow me, I will leave more technical reasoning to the documents. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate represents an opportunity for our Parliament to reconstruct what I call a profound rift in the world of school; a rift created by the law on good school and which has been amplified by the dynamics that accompanied the 2016 competition. I would just like to focus on two facts which - in my opinion - represent the metaphor of the current situation. The first figure concerns the 2016 competition for the recruitment of around 63,000 qualified teachers. About 71,000 candidates have signed up. In September, however, it was found that only 32,000 were admitted to orals: less than 50 percent of the members, less than 50 percent of the requirements. For this reason, many schools have had to make use of the supplements, drawing from those rankings of the second group of schools which - I remember - consist mostly of teachers who tried the competition. We then arrived at the paradox: teachers not considered fit to get the place put to competition were summoned to cover the same place, but in a precarious way. The other striking fact is the case of the famous thirty-six months of service. Europe has reminded us of the abuse of precarious contracts. The answer was: "Well, let's put a limit of thirty-six months to the total duration of fixed-term contracts." But that did not solve the problem, but expanded it. Since there is no obligation to recruit at the end of the thirty-six months, the experience and professionalism gained by the teacher himself may be cancelled. This is the picture we're moving into. These data are sufficient to clarify how schizophrenic the system has been. And I think this schizophrenia is due to a listening deficit that has characterized the dynamics of good school. Today we have the opportunity to open a new phase. And I want to acknowledge that Minister Faithful has shown a willingness to listen right from the start. And today's debate allows us to decline this will with clear commitments, which can be implemented in practice right from the start. In the two branches of Parliament we have, in fact, the outline of the implementing decrees of good school. In particular, Government Act No 377 deals with the training and recruitment of teaching staff and establishes a transitional phase for teachers of the second and third classes. However, the provisions imagined are still unsatisfactory, because they remain within the logic of yet another evaluative barrier. It is necessary to change logic and to take into account the fact that, as far as teachers in the second school group are concerned, they have been teachers who have been keeping the school system up for years and do not need to be re-evaluated. For these teachers, the accompaniment in role represents the necessary recognition for the long service provided and already abundantly evaluated during the certification phases. In this sense, there are only two hypotheses that reflect the objective state of training, qualification, service provided and competence of second-class teachers: one is the inclusion in the run-up rankings (GAE), while the other, if you wanted to continue with the absurd veto on the AGE, would be a competition for only titles and service: not the umpteenth passage of a humiliating race to obstacles, but the necessary satisfaction of expectations and sacrifices. By virtue of these aspects, the first three points of our motion commit the Government: to define measures to overcome the criticalities that have conditioned the teachers of the second school group, resolving the problem of the thirty-six months of service and ensuring the proper stabilization, through methods of evaluation of the titles only and the service provided; to define measures to allow the inclusion in the AGE for the teachers of the second school group; to evaluate the possibility of introducing an exemption from the triennial post-competition training system, providing a single year of trial for those who have qualified before the good school. Then there are two other aspects that the motion wants to grasp for the transitional phase and on which the Government commits. The first is the possibility to start, quickly, the new systems of qualification and recruitment for new graduates, also evaluating the start of a third cycle of active training. Finally, the last is the preparation of a census of the current consistency of the run-up rankings and the merit rankings of the 2016 competition, in order to determine the actual needs of teachers and to define operationally the most appropriate ways to meet the needs of the system. Colleagues, for some classes of teaching the run-out rankings are exhausted. We cannot think that in those cases we are still proceeding with illogical competition procedures. It is necessary to draw directly from the reservoir of teachers present in the second band. This is pragmatism. That's common sense. It's not about making the school a "postificium." It is a matter of giving respect to workers and merit. And that's what the school needs today. On this we want to give an input to the Government with the motion under consideration, aware that Minister Fedeli will understand the reasons for it. I would like to thank my colleague Franco Conte, a member of the Commission for Public Education and Cultural Heritage, who is co-signatory and supporter of the same motion. I should like to conclude by saying that the government and colleagues from the various groups supporting the school want to adhere to these commitments, also giving a signal of cohesion which is undoubtedly necessary at this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u9	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech, Senator Di Biagio, so that it is annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. I call Senator Blundo to explain motion No 704.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in this House debating a motion concerning the recruitment of teachers. I have repeatedly spoken here to urge the then Minister, Mr Giannini, on what was going to be done about the recruitments which did not take into account what my previous colleagues have explained a great deal. I am referring to the fact that in the world of school there are teachers who have worked for more than fifteen years and do not fall under any of the methods of recruitment included in the law. I had already brought the Commission's attention to the fact that the procedures provided for in the law, i.e. a competition for only qualified persons, were the more wrong one could decide, as teachers had already been excluded in the run-up rankings (GAEs) to which the previous governments and the State had asked to take non-recognized career paths. I am talking about active training courses (TFAs) and special enabling courses (PASs), which are paid courses. I had pointed out that in a competition for qualified only teachers would be excluded - as the colleague explained just before - were and are the backbone of the school path in Italy, which has brought many young people abroad who are required because they are really prepared. Although some teachers have shown that they do not have adequate attitudes or that they do not carry on a well - done schoolwork, we have repeatedly pointed out that for these exceptional cases there were other ways of intervening without denigrating the entire teaching staff. Now we are with a competition that is not even completely concluded. We find ourselves with classes of competition exhausted in some Regions and with teachers who have already completed thirty-six months of service, while others are reaching this limit. We also find ourselves with the so-called alternates, when we wanted to implement the extraordinary recruitment plan, which has not been resolved and we find ourselves, above all, with the seriousness of unclear data neither on how many posts have been put in competition, nor on how many places really are available in schools. We have to discuss in this House a motion which deals with the problem of school, while teachers with scores even lower than those of those who are at risk of never entering the schools. I am referring to the delegation that we must discuss, in addition to the motions we are debating. There is, in fact, a delegation on which we must express our opinion and which must be given to the Government. The delegation is still talking about recruitment because the problem is not solved: on the contrary, it is complicated. The people who did not participate in the recruitment plan are, in fact, valid teachers with high scores, but who could not accept chairs very far from their place of residence for the family. We find ourselves, therefore, with people who by right should have been hired, but were not; people who continue to work in schools and who, although having participated in the competition, have been rejected. I remember that competitions have had different ways in all regions. Different conditions have been adopted in the conduct of competitions in the various regions. People were rejected for very low scores (0.1-0.2). We are talking about conditions due to the methods of evaluation that have not even foreseen the adjustment of the fractional percentages desired by the competitive modalities. Many teachers have obtained the right to be included in the AGE after filing appeals and, therefore, through judgments: the school is in the hands of judgments and teachers are not respected. I am pleased that we are all aware in this House today of the disastrous state of the school world and I hope that the motions under discussion will be unanimous in recognising the commitments to which the government must respond promptly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u11	I call Senator Petraglia to explain motion No 715.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u12	Mr President, the extraordinary plan of recruitment contained in the so-called good school law - as we know and as is clear to all since the beginning of the school year - has not solved the problem of historical precariousness, leaving completely open the problem of second-class teachers where qualified teachers are placed through TFA-PAS courses with many years of service. The public competition, which remains for us the most transparent and democratic recruitment system, has suffered incredible delays and, therefore, no promises were made for 2016. In any case, let us consider the direct call, always provided for by Law No 107 of 2015 (the one made by the school manager), completely illegitimate and unconstitutional because it harms freedom of teaching and is not a guarantee of its quality. There are thousands of teachers in the third school group who have continued to ensure, in recent years and months, the functioning of schools, especially in the territories where there is a huge shortage of qualified staff. Paragraph 132 of Article 1 of the aforementioned law allocates 10 million euros and lays down for a forecast of judgments favorable to the applicants who, in reality, will resort not only for compensation, but above all for the stabilization and reconstruction of the career. Thousands of chairs were uncovered for a long period also due to the provisional assignments ended even in December 2016. There are about 21,000 chairs not covered by permanent staff, and it is contradictory to think that the teachers called to cover them are the same ones judged not to be equal to a position of role since the last competition: this is the paradox that gives us the current situation. Therefore, the State has made a public contest, teachers have been rejected, but those same teachers have now been called to fill places, because it was necessary to do so for the school: a truly shameful contradiction. As far as we are concerned, the alignment, which can no longer be postponed, of the right staff to de facto staff should be included: it is about 30,000 posts by way of derogation every year, as theorized by the Ministry of Education, University and Research. We therefore call on the Government to first find a definitive solution, such as a competition reserved for titles only, which can act in a multi-annual manner for all those who are qualified and who meet the requirements of stabilisation, as laid down in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We still ask the Government to make it possible to access contracts without a time limit to teachers in the second school group, where the disciplines no longer have aspirants in the finishing rankings: this was one of the problems that we highlighted with the beginning of the school year 2016-2017. We also ask the Government to apply the European directive in the stabilisation processes, before proceeding to a new competition and, again, to amend paragraph 131, which provides the limit of thirty-six months for the duration of fixed-term employment contracts, concluded with effect from 1 September 2016, of the teaching staff, administrative, technical and auxiliary, for the coverage of vacant and available posts. We also call for a new cycle of active training courses (TFA) and special enabling courses (PAS), necessary for the teachers of the third classes of the institute not to be excluded from the next competition, which can only be accessed if enabled. We also ask for action to be taken to speed up the new cycle of specialization of support, announced in December 2016, given the enormous demand of specialized teachers by the state public school, being the schools too often obliged to resort to alternates, almost always without qualifications. Finally, we ask to provide for the inclusion in the rankings on completion of magisterial graduates with a qualification achieved within the school year 2001-2002, precisely in order to follow up a right recognized by the Council of State and to ensure the continuity of teaching, damaged by the ballet of the orders staggered in the times. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u13	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Secondary State School of First Degree. Francesco Solimena in Naples who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u14	I call Senator Bocchino to explain motion No 716.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the motion that I am preparing to present is primarily focused on the only subject that the Government should have at heart: students and students of our schools. In fact, to give stability to teachers means in practice to ensure continuity to the school service, which this year, despite the roboating proclamations of the MIUR, has not been assured; on the contrary, I would say that the goal has been dramatically missed. Over 2.5 million pupils (33 percent of the entire school population) are with at least one new teacher in class this year and has gone even worse to pupils with disabilities, because at least 100,000 of them (43 percent of the 233,000 disabled pupils present this year in the classes of each school order) have changed the teacher of support, in spite of the continuity of teaching. The succession of teachers is the result of the combined mobility of role teachers, which meets the appointments of annual alternates. On the one hand, therefore, we have the possibility offered to the teachers of role to request the transfer regardless of the actual needs of the service offered to the students; on the other, we have the now sadly known phenomenon of the "supplentite," that is the extraordinary use by the State of fixed-term contracts. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that there are about 100.00 annual alternates, almost 13% of the posts, including 41,000 in support of disabled people: these are numbers from last year. It is a hard phenomenon to die, which continues still today, despite the fact that the law of so-called good school has been presented to us as the panacea of all evils. To give continuity to the school service to our pupils and students, especially those with disabilities, there is only one way to go: the stabilization of teachers who already work in our schools today. Of course, this would cost around EUR 385 million for the stabilisation of 41,000 support posts (about EUR 1,650 per disabled student, equal to only 7% of what is already spent), but the result would be hugely different and innovative. Will the benefit that a disabled person receives from the stable presence of a teacher of support, which in fact guarantees his right to study, be quantifiable? The truth is that today didactic continuity is not only guaranteed for the entire cycle of studies, but also for the individual school year. Yet Italy has always stood out for its very advanced legislation in terms of educational opportunities for children and young people with disabilities. At this point, Mr President, I would just like to mention one of the delegations we are discussing in the 7th Commission, the one on support, which, in our view, is undermining the goodness of our country's system of inclusion. I would just like to mention the accentuation of the medicalization of support; the separation of the careers of support teachers; the limitation of the participation of families in the bodies that decide the training course of disabled pupils; the amendments to Law 104, without being made a recognition of the effective effectiveness of this law, a true conquest of civilizations that now wants to be modified with this incredible delegation. Motion No 716, which I invite you to vote, contains in itself a choice of civilizations that can no longer be postponed, which we must now face with two hands, a simple and ultimately economically sustainable choice: the stabilisation of the places by way of derogation. A spontaneous whisper arises from the thought that 20 billion were easily found by the Government for the rescue of the banks and it seems titanic the enterprise to raise 385 million in order to assure our children more fragile conditions adequate to guarantee them the right to study constitutionally recognized, as well as morally necessary. Sometimes in life it is necessary to dare. Let us surprise the 233,000 families with whom we owe gratitude. Let us redeem ourselves by approving motion No 716. In the 2017 budget law, 400 million euros have already been allocated for the stabilisation of precarious persons, for the transformation of de facto staff into legal staff. Well, this is a drop in the sea. It is only a way of clouding the narrowness of this funding. If, in fact, we divide this expenditure by an average salary of a teacher - for ease of counting we suppose to be 33,000 gross euros per year - it is possible to stabilize only 12,000 new places in all: not only support, but also teachers on common place. We are big and awake enough to understand that precariousness will be possible to stem only with a serious investment project on the school, which gives stability to the staff and consequently to our pupils. At the centre must be placed the learner, who should become a real legal entity with rights and duties declined in a true and articulated statute of the learner, covering every order and grade of school, with a national service of public education, free and universal that guarantees to him or her that cultural growth that is the way to become realized, aware and, therefore, free citizens. That is why, Mr President, the school service is a service not only to the person, but also to society and to the country as a whole. All this must be done in the simple consideration that the school is the result of that wonderful and continuous mutual relationship between teachers and pupils, the two uneliminable pillars that condition each other so deeply that the well-being of one directly affects the welfare of the other. It is for this reason that, in conclusion, we call for a reasonable number of de facto staff posts to be transformed into legal staff and for the organic legal endowment of support teachers for the next school year to be 100% of the support posts activated in the current school year to ensure school continuity. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u16	I call Senator Puglisi to explain motion No 718.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u17	Mr President, I ask that I read my sitting speech because I slipped before and got hurt.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u18	The Presidency authorizes it to do so and wishes it a speedy recovery.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u19	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, at the beginning of the 17th legislature, in 2013, thousands of precarious teachers were present in school graduations and graduations, whose rights, depending on the category of membership, before, second or third, were different and, often, opposed, due to the different systems of initial training and recruitment that followed in the years following the succession of governments. In retracing the long story, it must be remembered that Minister Fioroni had created for the historical precariousness the graduations to exhaustion with a plan of assumptions of three decisive years of the problem. Unfortunately, with Minister Gelmini 85,000 chairs have been cut, the rankings have been reopened in an absolutely sudden way and leading to further uncertainties, schools of specialization in secondary education have been closed, active training internships (TFA) have been established without competition value and no competition has been banned during the five years of the Berlusconi Government. With the arrival of the Monti Government, Minister Profumo started the new system of rating, indexing, but on different dates, TFA courses and special enabling routes (PAS) and banning, after many years, a competition in 2012, also open to non-enabled. The Renzi Government has tried to put order, with Law 107 of 13 July 2015 (better known as good school), to the disordered stratification of norms and the unsustainable precariousness of the teachers, with an extraordinary plan of recruitment of 100,000 teachers of the graduations when exhausted, including 50,000 new places necessary for the strengthening of the training offer. Then a contest was launched in 2016 for 63.712 places, of which 57.611 common places, i.e. related to the various disciplines, and 6101 support. This competition was reserved exclusively for qualified persons. The new system of initial training and recruitment of teachers provided for by the law represents the instrument that will lead to the definitive stabilization of precarious teachers, thus ensuring the much-sighed continuity of teaching for students, including them in a three-year paid training and training path that will place them, after the final evaluation, directly in the role. Article 1, paragraph 181 (b) of Law 107 provides, in fact, among the principles and guiding criteria to which the successive legislative decrees must comply, the reorganization, adaptation and simplification of the system of initial training and access in the roles of teacher in secondary school, in order to make it functional to the social and cultural enhancement of the profession. This legislative decree, which is currently being examined by the 7th Commission for the extension of the opinion, provides that, as from September 2016, fixed-term employment contracts concluded with the teaching, educational, administrative, technical and auxiliary staff at the state educational and educational institutions, for the coverage of vacant and available posts, may not exceed the total duration of 36 months, even non-continuous, due to a decision of the European Court that provided for the non-renewable nature of contracts and the compensation of teachers who, after the completion of the thirty-six months of fixed-term contract, could not be put in a permanent position. All these problems are answered in the draft legislative decree, which "reorders, adapts and simplifies the system of initial training and access in the roles of teacher in secondary school (...)," in order to make it functional to the social and cultural enhancement of the profession. The aims of the draft legislative decree, which finally surpasses the current system of access to the profession of teacher, draws a new model of initial training and access of the teaching staff of the secondary school of first and second degree both of the common places and of those of support. In completing this ambitious plan, the measure does not forget the various situations currently existing in the field of initial training and recruitment and, to this end, defines a fundamental transitional discipline precisely to give the answers that serve the second and third-class precarious. In particular, the scheme provides that part of the places for the competition for access to the roles of the secondary school of first and second grade is reserved to the subjects in possession of qualification to the teaching achieved according to the previsional discipline and to those who, on the date of entry into force, are inserted in the graduations of third belt of institute with at least thirty-six months of service, even not continuous. For these same subjects who benefit from the reserve of places, it is also expected a simplification of the competitive path. In particular, it is expected that qualified subjects will only be required to take the oral test. The subjects enrolled in the third-range rankings with at least thirty-six months of service, even non-continuous, must take the written test, with the objective of evaluating the degree of knowledge of the candidate on a specific discipline, and the oral test. In addition, a simplification of the three-year training and internship course is envisaged for the winners of the competition in possession of the rating, reserved and not. In particular, the winners of the competition for common places and places of technical-practical teacher in possession of previous qualification are exempted from the frequency of the specialization course and access directly to the second and third year of the contract. The course is further reduced to the third year of the contract only if the teachers have served for at least thirty-six months even non-continuous. Then there is graduality based on the service performed and the titles possessed for the definitive placing in permanent role for these professionals. With this motion we therefore ask the Government to determine how many posts will be available to the second and third classes of institutions and how long the transitional phase will last for these teachers. We ask the Government to follow up on the commitment to permanently stabilize the de facto staff of schools in order to have a single functional staff, which also includes the posts of support, to ensure the necessary continuity of teaching - to this end, moreover, in the budget law of 2016 additional 400 million euros have been inserted and invested - and to fully enhance the training and experience of the teachers. I have listened very carefully to the speeches made by colleagues who have tabled other motions, so I would like to read the current data on the precariousness of the school, despite the extraordinary recruitment plan of 100,000 teachers. Today there are 132,835 teachers, 106,631 of whom on childhood and primary, a number that is growing every week for the insertion, happened with sentence, of the magisterial graduates. On the other hand, the number of persons enrolled in the AGE is 83.868, because each person can be enrolled in several rankings. They have been completely exhausted from the extraordinary plan of entry in role 66 graduations upon exhaustion. There are 134 classes of competition remaining, with a list ending with at least one member in at least one Province. In the 2016 competition 620 open procedures were all concluded, except 16: six of the childhood, four of the primary and six of the secondary (this figure is updated to 3 February 2017). In the third section, in order to give an idea of the numbers of the school precarious, 127,668 people are enrolled: a large dimension, but, with the transitional phase, can find a solution over time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Pelino to explain motion No 730.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motions before us face a problem unfortunately created and then left unsolved by the rules of the so-called law on good school, which has been showing, since the beginning of the last school year, all its ineffectiveness. The recruitment plan provided for the call of teachers from run-out rankings and merit rankings, but too many were excluded from that procedure, for which the so-called next competition, to posts and chairs for teaching staff, has not yet found a solution (it was 63.712 places, for which an assignment was planned from 2016 and until 2018). The competition has imagined a regional procedure, through three calls: the first, for teachers of the school of childhood and primary; the second, addressed to teachers of the secondary school of first and second degree; the third, for teachers of support. The competition, however, registered the admission of only 32,000 candidates to the oral exam, after the examination of the written tests of over 70,000 total candidates. Both the long duration of the competition - and, in some cases, the indeterminate nature of the procedures - and the need to cover certain chairs have led to the convocation of the teachers enrolled in the existing lists, even though they are being exhausted. For the school year 2016-2017, temporary recourse was made to those precarious teachers who the ratio of the law on good school intended to stabilize. The further problem was that Italy had to take note of a ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union that stipulated that in our country, contrary to European legislation, there was excessive use of term contracts at school. The same law on good school ended up slipping into a cul-de-sac, setting the maximum time limit of 36 months for covering vacancies. Now there is a risk of losing the important professional experience of teachers who have been teaching as alternates for more than three years. This seems to go against the desire to recognize the training path of the teachers and to take due account of the practice and experience gained. It would have been different if the recruitment of those who had gained many years of experience had been linked to the requirement of competence acquired within the school walls. Therefore, the motions before us raise a specific problem which we hope that the sensitivity of the current Minister of Education will give a definitive solution: we cannot allow the place where our children's knowledge and consciences are formed to be regulated by a perennial uncertainty that unfortunately has been present for too many years. For this reason, we believe that, once and for all, the recruitment procedures for teachers should be put in hand, starting from the very simple consideration that the stability of the chairs and teachers can also help to ensure a higher quality of teaching. Certainly one of the fundamental points must be the continuity of teaching and education and perhaps, to those who have somewhat superficially ironized on the trials of the competition, in which some teachers would have made mistakes, it should be pointed out that these were not so easy, but, on the contrary, rather rigorous. And now we need, however, beyond any controversy, a way out that safeguards the need for recourse to the public procedure for the recruitment of teachers to the evaluation of the existing. We cannot forget, therefore, the existing rankings and the fact that they contain not only names and surnames, but experiences to be valued. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to explain motion 731.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to ask the President to give me a few more minutes, promising that I will give up my speech in this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u22	The presidency will give it to you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u23	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, thank you. The illustration and debate on motions in general - and in this case in particular, I await the delicacy of the subject - leads to a preliminary assessment of the value, the meaning, the purpose of the motion, an act of commitment which, at a delicate stage such as that of the arrival in the Commissions of merit of the eight delegated decrees, so that Parliament regains greater authority and space in the definition of legislative procedures, leads to give a particular value to this moment of comparison. I very much appreciate the words of Minister Fedeli, who at the very moment when he transferred the decrees to the merit committees of the Chamber and Senate, said: Now starts the listening phase of the subjects involved. The final texts will be the result of the maximum possible sharing. I would like to say to the President of the 7th Commission, the highly authoritative and dear Senator Marcucci, that he allows and grants the hearings of those subjects who seem to be the bearers of specificity, problems and territorial criticalities, but who, in fact, when talking about school, pose problems concerning the training system of the whole country. What I address, therefore, is a prayer and on this aspect I would also kindly like the Undersecretary D'Onghia to be in tune with the Minister Faithful and to carry out a moral action on the President of the 7th Commission. I start from a very simple consideration to briefly illustrate motion No 731 at my first signature, which almost all political forces have signed. Of course, I will not dwell much on the value, the meaning, the logical and anthropological aspects of teaching continuity and I will not bother neither educators, nor illustrious opinionists to say what is obvious and that, with words far more competent than mine, was also exposed by those who preceded me. There is no doubt that the aspect of teaching continuity is a fundamental tool for creating a virtuous relationship of cause-effect between teaching and learning. Well, this aspect is heavily vulnerated and let's go see why. In this respect, the year 2016-2017 we could consider it annus horribilis, because it has seen the most chaotic transfer of teachers of role and the highest number of movements of teachers not of role that has ever been realized: about 2.5 million students out of a total of 7.8 million have had at least one teacher different from the previous year and this aspect of criticality has had negative effects especially on disabled students. I would ask the Undersecretary to take note of this. It is necessary to combine the right to study the disabled student with more adequate economic resources because it cannot be said that the right, sanctioned by law, of assistance to the disabled student for the part-time or for the whole time by the support teacher is denied, according to the greater or lesser economic resources; generally, always smaller. Another aspect is related to the school year 2016-2017, which has been the subject of a transfer of over 200,000 teachers, i.e. 200 percent more than in 2008-2009. Those are huge figures. This migration has undoubtedly affected the aspect of didactics because, of course, in addition to having caused devastating effects on the family assets of each teacher, it has involved a whirlwind change in educational and educational projects, teaching and learning methods, explanation and evaluation, in short, the principles of quality that should confirm the adjective "good," which is added to school, with reference to Law No 107. Another important aspect is precariousness and stabilisation. The agreement on mobility, signed between the Government and the union forces, provides for a derogation from any obligation of permanence for all teachers of role, i.e. teachers who can again request the transfer to another location, different from the one currently occupied. I believe that there is a vulnus in Law 107 on this point because I fear, and I would not like to say emphatically, that the stabilisation process has been the result of blackmail rather than a logic of programming adapted to the actual needs of the teachers. I would like to say an exodus, not being able to qualify it in any other way. We must, however, also calm the relationship between those who are still precarious today and those who, in order to be stable, had to make hundreds of kilometers. The Government is therefore asked for a serious commitment to reduce the precariousness, to guarantee the continuity of teaching, to carry out a supply-demand programming that also takes into account the needs of homogeneity of the entire national territory, in the primary interest of the learners, to ensure the stabilization in organic of all the places of support, also with reference to the less favoured geographical areas of the Country, in particular those of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, which continue to be penalized, also with reference to the containment of the school dispersal, fruit of a socio-economic and cultural context typical of those areas, and finally increase the full time; the increase of the staff and autonomy of the institutions of the entire national territory, with particular reference to the areas of the Mezzogiorno that does not only take into account the logic connected to the increase, decrease of the population. Finally, it is asked to consider the ratio of pupils to class, which sees some Regions of the Mezzogiorno, not all in truth, contrary to the principle established by Law No 107 which, in paragraph 84 of Article 1, provides a rule that cannot be applied in relation to the failure to reduce the number of pupils per class, due to the absence of an adequate staff. These are common sense demands and I trust that the government will be responsible in line with the statements made by the Minister. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u24	I call Senator Barani to explain motion 732.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u25	If you think so, Senator Barani, as your colleague has already done, can extend your speech and then give up on the subject: it could be the right way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u26	That is the right way, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, our Group, which consists of 30% doctors and biologists, starts with a scientific evaluation. In medicine, when something doesn't work, we do a history, that is, the objective examination, to make a diagnosis and establish a therapy. Let's start with the history, i.e. the objective examination of Law 107 of 2015, in an attempt to heal its inevitable criticalities. From the history it is noted that, with regard to the mobility plan of the teachers, the current school year has been defined as the most chaotic regarding the transfers of the teachers of role and not of role, since the law on good school has allowed, by way of derogation from the three-year constraint of stay in the Province, the possibility for the teacher to move to another place, also waiting for the possibility of the school manager to use the direct call of the teacher. That is an undeniable fact. We, as a Group, at this point open a parenthesis: the figure of the school manager must be reviewed, because he must be evaluated and, if he is not able to direct the school, it must be replaced, as the surgeon who is no longer able to operate is replaced; this for the period of time that the Government considers appropriate to consider on the basis of our proposal. Here we open another parenthesis: the teachers now at the limits of the retirement age, those who have passed the sixty-sixty-two years and who no longer have that modernization, that training and that ability to transmit, because the world of the school has undergone a quite rapid Copernican revolution (we are not at the great Gentile reform, used for decades and therefore able to bear fruit), it is necessary that they be put into early retirement. It is necessary, with a law, to try to bring into school young people, who are more trained, more prepared and more adapted to the times. The other point in our history is that, as the data (which on this point are irrefutable), almost 3 million students (I speak of 3 million learners, therefore of pupils), compared to almost 8 million total, met at least one teacher different from those of previous years. So there was a turnover, a mobilization, a change that is almost 40-45 percent. This never happened. In fact, another irrefutable fact that leads us to then express a diagnosis is that in this school year it would seem that the transfer of teachers covered 200 percent compared to previous years: a real migratory flow, which has led to a dizzying variation of educational programs and methods, with consequences not always lucky for the training of learners and the principle of continuity of teaching. This situation particularly affects disabled pupils, since for the most part the teachers receiving the derogation are precarious and therefore subject to annual change. In some areas, the offer of teachers is numerically overabundant compared to other areas, where it is lacking, which suggests, for the next school year, a further massive movement of teachers, with consequent instability of teaching continuity. And then, if this is the diagnosis, this means that Law No 107 of 2015, in an attempt to remedy the inevitable criticalities also with respect to the guidelines of the Court of Justice of the European Union, has provided that, from September 2016, fixed-term employment contracts concluded with teaching staff at state institutions for the coverage of available vacancies cannot exceed the total duration of thirty-six months, even non-continuous. This provision has not only not adequately addressed the problem, but has worsened the situation of those who, having already completed their thirty-six months of service as alternates, have not yet returned to a recruitment stabilization plan and, therefore, cannot continue to teach. This inevitably leads to the demolition of the teacher's professionalism, as well as the experience gained over time. I conclude by stating the points on which we would like to commit the Government: consider the need to put in place the appropriate regulatory remedies, in order to allow teachers in possession of qualifying qualifications currently registered in the second category of the school rankings to be included in the school rankings when they are exhausted; to implement the appropriate interventions to address and solve the problems arising from the conditional forecast of exceeding the thirty-six months of service for teachers enrolled in the second section of the school rankings, in order to ensure their adequate stability; to assess the opportunity to start new systems of qualification and recruitment, also in order to allow young graduates to access the roles of the school, retirement the elderly; to put in place all the most suitable monitoring activities, in order to have as clear a picture as possible of the real needs of teachers in our country, also looking at the different territorial areas; to identify any measure more effective for a real reduction of the precariousness in schools, paying particular attention to the places of support, so that all learners, but in particular those with disabilities, can really rely on the fullness of the principle of continuity of teaching. In particular, customized teaching plans must be imposed and it must be checked that they are applied to the limits of the implementing decrees. This must be made clear even more clearly. It would also be appropriate for teachers, who have obtained the qualification for teaching, in accordance with the legislation contained in the laws and decrees, by the year 2016 to be required to include in the graduations to be exhausted for the recruitment of teaching staff for the positions required for the score so far and to be recognized to the holders of the AFAM diploma, old order, achieved within the academic year 2001-2002, together with the diploma of secondary school of second degree, the qualification to the teaching regarding all the classes of contest of their interest extending it also to the diplomas AFAM, old system of magistrale maturity, achieved within the year 2001-2002, to be considered as having the value of second level academic diploma and, moreover, to the holders of further AFAM second level academic diploma for the same discipline, achieved with final examination within the academic year 2007-2008, to be recognized the qualification to the teaching regarding all classes of contest of their interest also for the secondary school of second degree. From the history and the objective exam we arrive at the diagnosis and, as a Group, we have proposed the therapy to solve the considerable difficulty that our school encounters for the fast turnover of teachers with repercussions on the continuity of teaching. It is as if during an open-heart surgery a surgeon opened the heart, left, another came to replace the valve and then another came to close. It would be a chaos that would lead to the death of the patient; in our case the pupil does not have the training necessary to go on in his training course.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u27	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Salvatore Quasimodo" in Crispano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u28	I declare the debate open. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u29	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate shows the awareness that Parliament has problems with the school's precarious and that the good school has not been able to solve them; indeed, it has partly amplified them. I take a necessary step back on the stage of discussion of the good school, in which we tried to bring the government, in vain, towards a sort of rationalism, to bring it to consider all the actors involved in the varied universe of the Italian school. Look, I'm a supporter of the culture of merit, not of over-assistantism; but I'm also for the culture of listening, and listening leads to understanding the reasons of others. On the good school a short circuit was consumed, because you can't use a person, squeeze his energies and skills up to the bone, and then put it aside. It is not about creating "postifical" but about respecting the work and merit of others, which also means saying: I give you the credit for keeping my school system up for years. The world of precarious people has not been heard enough in the good school. They may have heard opinions, but without really listening to them, and this has led to acting out of a common sense logic. I have briefly retraced that phase, because today we are confronted with some consequences of all this. The paradox determined by the 2016 competition is the obvious proof. I repeat: teachers who are not eligible for the place of competition have been summoned to cover the same place, but in a precarious manner. As for the thirty - six months of service, go read the school's social media and read what teachers are asking: I have a contract, renewed so and so. I finished thirty-six months of service: can I still teach next year? We can't pretend this doesn't exist. We must start again from common sense, in order to resolve the criticalities that characterize this transitional phase. For these reasons we have tabled this motion, which is not a Group motion, but it is deliberately transversal, by majority, that wants to take on the critical issues that affect the school precariousness, and in fact it is signed by colleagues of almost all groups. I am sure that Minister Fedeli will be able to grasp the inputs we have subscribed to, and that I hope they will find the cross-cutting sharing of all colleagues. And I appeal in this to all the groups and colleagues who care about the fate of precarious teachers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion that I have signed with other colleagues with firm conviction is intended to engage the Government in an in-depth analysis of the places that will be available to the second and third sections of the institution and on the duration of the transitional phase for this group still present of precarious, and to follow up the commitment to stabilize the staff in fact, in order to achieve a single functional staff, in the sense that it must serve to make the school service work and optimize, including the places of support: the objective, in addition to the guarantee of the continuity of teaching, is the valorization of the training and experience of the teachers. The good school, the law no. 107 of 2015 (let me repeat it), after an untenable historical phase of precariousness, determined by unfinished reforms, distorted over time (which also contributed to the cutting of the chairs of the then minister Gelmini and the blocking of competitions in the Berlusconi legislatures, which became chronic during the various legislatures), has realized the greatest placing in the roles of the teachers, inaugurating a system of initial training and recruitment that will lead to the definitive stabilization of precarious teachers and the normalization of the system. That is our wish. How little do you think? The law has led to the recruitment of almost 100,000 new teachers of the finishing rankings, the AGE of the then Minister Fioroni, born just to be exhausted; seats including 50,000 new places for the strengthening of the training offer. In 2016 the competition was launched for more than 63,000 places, of which nearly 60,000 municipalities, i.e. related to the various disciplines, and over 6,000 support, reserved for the qualified. In this legislature, all this has been achieved, as well as investing EUR 200 million to reward the credit of teachers: let the other figures, such as EUR 40 million for training, not melt. However, shortcomings have inevitably emerged and the problems, highlighted in the text of the motion that I have signed, which need to be resolved, and could not be different, given the enormous complexity of the operations and the effort to reduce the historical precariousness, not absorbed. The greatest concern for the teachers still precarious is article 1, paragraph 131, of law no. 107 of 2015, which emphasized in her speech my colleague Puglisi, according to which: With effect from 1 September 2016, fixed-term employment contracts concluded with teaching, educational, administrative, technical and auxiliary staff at state educational and educational institutions, for the coverage of vacancies and available places, may not exceed the total duration of 36 months, including non-continuous periods. That's the point. They are all serious problems, highlighted by the motion, which will be solved with the draft legislative decree, which - at last - reorders the initial training system and access in the roles of teacher in the secondary school, which is made leaner. It is therefore a three-year journey, which will lead to the role. I leave aside everything that has been analytically illustrated previously by my colleague Puglisi, stressing that, in completing this ambitious design, given the varied and complex situations currently existing (inherited, I stress, by strong responsibilities of other governments, to which our Executives have given a strong response, although certainly perfectable), the initial training and the recruitment system need a fundamental transitional discipline, until the stabilization of the teachers and the solution of the serious, chronic and unsustainable theme of the precarious: this is a problem that this legislature has shown amply to want to heal. The motion of which I am a signatory is the clear and firm testimony of it, as is the clear testimony of our understanding and our objective of giving quality and continuity to teaching, making it come out of the dryness of precariousness. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u31	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the groups and colleagues who have spoken for the great contribution they have made to us today, also for the answers we will have to give to a world as complex as that of school. The Government is determined to resolve many of the issues that have been raised here today, on which the Commission has a generally favourable stance. I would like to tell you that the objective is common, namely to bring back the world of school, as it is, to be one of the main objectives of the implementation of rules that can really help our system. As my colleagues know, these days are being held at the 7th Standing Commission the hearings of all stakeholders, i.e. of all actors who are part of the school world, so that the Commissions can give the best possible opinion on the decree-law under discussion. So we expect from all the parliamentary groups a debate in the Commission that can be concrete and on the substance, so that we can improve everything that has been discussed today. In this connection, we call for a postponement so that the debate within the Commission can be held when the decree-law is being examined by the 7th Commission. We therefore call for the debate on motions to be postponed to a useful next sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u35	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, precisely because the debate on this subject is on the agenda of the 7th Commission and precisely because the groups have tabled motions which can also come to a common definition, I would ask that we proceed with the work in this House. It has been months since we presented these two motions and there was the possibility of confrontation, even in view of today's day, to arrive at a common definition and possibly a single motion, but it was not wanted to do so. I therefore reiterate the desire of the Group of the North League to put to the vote the motions that have been tabled, at least the no. 589 and 590 to our signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u38	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have heard Mrs D'Onghia's proposal, but we have some concerns about the time we are facing. These motions are being discussed today, but they have been on the agenda for a long time before the examination of the legislative decrees was included on the agenda of the 7th Commission. I would also like to point out that the Commission will deliver opinions which, as we all know, are not binding on the Government and perhaps on such a specific subject, which is necessary and awaited by the whole school world, it would be useful to proceed to the vote today. In fact, if the common intention is to give certainty and stabilisation to teachers of the second group and to allow teachers included in the third group school rankings and who have achieved the thirty-six months of teaching to have access to the title of qualification, approving a motion certainly has a much stronger value than simply including these commitments within the opinion on the draft legislative decrees. By the way, approving the motions today certainly also contributes to the debate that we are making within the Commissions. Therefore, we, too, of the Italian Left, believe that we must proceed today to the vote on the acts of direction in this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u41	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I believe that Mrs Petraglia has identified the central point that is the subject of our response to the Government, in the sense that, through today's debate and the acts of commitment that we ask the Government, we believe we are giving a line of direction. I believe that this is the time when the Commission should express its position in the Senate Chamber, which will probably be used positively in the course of the work that the Commission is preparing to do in drawing up its opinion on the delegated decrees. Moreover, Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I began with my illustration by pointing out precisely the paradox that a hearing was denied in the 7th Commission, in complete contradiction with the wishes and commitments made by Minister Fedeli; then let us not say that this hearing was denied, because the request comes from trade union bodies representative of territorial interests because otherwise it would mean that there is a deep gap in the approach and approach of the work that we diligently want to adopt in a logic of concerted action shared by all political forces. The problems of an area are not only problems of that area, but are the problems of the school as a whole, unique on the national territory, in terms of quality, efficiency, governance and reorganization. Therefore, the possibility to continue the work started also realizes our commitment, our wishes that we address to the Government; and from the Government we expect precise and clear answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u42	Colleagues, I would remind all those who will intervene to support their position to limit the time of their speech because, however, the sitting at 1 p.m. will end. I remind you in order not to arrive at 1 p.m. without making any decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u45	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, with regard to the request made by the Government, I confirm that we are at an advanced stage of hearings in the 7th Commission. We have held about seventy hearings and others are scheduled for this and next week. I therefore welcome the proposal put forward by the Government, which I consider reasonable and sensible, and in view of the active and positive confrontation within the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u48	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I do not want to make a photocopier because Senator Petraglia has expressed exactly the point of the matter, which is why we too feel that we need to vote on the motions today. I would just like to say briefly that we have eight good school-related legislative decrees in the Commission and that the work has gone on as it has gone on. Today, therefore, is a great opportunity to put at least one firm point and make Parliament's voice heard on one of the most relevant aspects of the world of school, that of recruitment. We are therefore also in favour of voting on motions in this House and giving the floor to Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u51	Conte (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Di Biagio, who is co-signator of motion No 697, we believe that the Government's statement is a valid statement of reasons. In fact, the 7th Commission is currently holding hearings of a number of coordination committees in the school world, which represent diverse situations. We therefore believe that a postponement, even just for a few days, will allow us to acquire further elements of knowledge with regard to this diverse world of precariousness, seeking to identify and transpose, within the framework of the path to be carried out by the decree in the Commission with the opinions that can be formulated by the various components of the Commission, all these positions. If the Commission's opinion is not satisfactory, we are willing to ask for this motion to be re-discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u52	Colleagues, there is now a procedural problem. It is difficult to proceed in the absence of opinions on motions. However, before we proceed to that stage, I must ask for an expression of the Assembly in relation to the Government's proposal, so that a choice is made. Before that, however, he asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u53	Mr President, the Government did not ask my fellow Members not to proceed, but not to proceed today, because we felt it was right that a serious debate should be held in the Commission. On the contrary, I said that the Government shares a large part of the issues raised by colleagues from the various groups, but that we felt it was right that a debate should be held on the subject, and therefore a few days later the views on these motions should be moved. If, however, colleagues want, we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u54	So, is the government in a position to express its opinions? Mr D'ONGHIA, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you are in a position to do so, I would ask you to give your opinion on the motions put forward. Mr D'ONGHIA, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. As far as motion No 589 is concerned, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: It commits the Government to provide reserved and facilitated routes, selective for exams, to respect the limit of the places available for the placing in the role of the qualified teachers currently enrolled in the second group of institutions, as governed by Article 17 of the draft legislative decree implementing, of the letter b ) of paragraph 181 of the law n. 107 of 2015, now to the examination of the competent parliamentary committees. As far as motion No 590 is concerned, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: It commits the Government to provide reserved and facilitated courses, selective for exams, in order to respect the limit of the places available for the frequency of an annual specialization course for secondary education and for the placing in role in favor of the currently unqualified teachers enrolled in the third group of institute that have matured at least thirty-six months of service, as governed by article 17 of the draft legislative decree implementing, of the letter b) of paragraph 181 of the law n. 107 of 2015, now to the examination of the competent parliamentary committees. As regards motion No 697 (text 3) of the operative part, I support point (a) with the following rewording: To provide reserved and facilitated routes, selective for exams, to respect the limit of the places available for the placing in the role of the qualified teachers currently enrolled in the second group of institute, as well as further simplifications of old paths for those who have matured at least thirty-six months of service as governed by article 17 of the schema of implementing legislative decree, letter b) of paragraph 181 of law n. 107, to the examination of the parliamentary commissioni. With regard to point (b) of the operative part, I am in favour of the following rewording: "to provide for a channel of entry in parallel with that of the AGE in favour of the groups of qualified teachers currently enrolled in the second section of the school rankings that exceed a selective path reserved and facilitated as governed by Article 17 of the legislative decree implementing, of the letter b) of paragraph 181. As regards point (c) of the same motion, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: To exempt from the three-year post-competition training system those already qualified who exceed the appropriate competition reserved for them, instead providing for a reduced journey to a single year, coinciding with the test one, for those qualified with at least thirty-six months of previous service and two years for the other qualifying years. As regards point (d) of the same motion, the opinion supports the following rewording: To assess the possibility of rapid start-up of the new systems of qualification and recruitment in order to allow new graduates adequate possibilities to enable themselves and access the roles of the school, also assessing, if the time of putting into place of the new system of recruitment is still inevitably long, the start of a third course of training even if limited to the classes of competition and types of places for which the rankings are exhausted provincial. As regards the last letter of motion No 697, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u55	Let us move on to motion No 704, although it seems a little bold to consider them rewordings: they seem rather rewritings, these.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u56	With reference to Amendment No 704, the opinion on the first point of the operative part is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: It provides for a channel of entry in parallel role and that of the AGE in favor of the qualified teachers currently enrolled in the second section of the school rankings that exceed a selective path reserved and facilitated, as governed by Article 17 of the draft legislative decree, of the letter b), paragraph 181, of the law n. 107 of 2015... As regards the second point of the motion, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: (a) to provide for reserved and selective routes to respect the limit of the places available for the attendance of an annual specialization course for secondary education and for the entry into role in favour of teachers currently not qualified enrolled in the third group of institutions, who have completed at least thirty-six months of service, as governed by Article 17 of the draft legislative decree implementing, in point (b) of paragraph 181, now to the examination of the competent parliamentary committees, and to provide in transit for the start of a third cycle of active training, even if limited to the classes of competition and types of places for which the rankings are exhausted provincial.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u57	With regard to Amendment No 715, Madam Undersecretary, tell me whether your opinion is in favour of rewording, because, at this point, the texts must be distributed: I challenge anyone to have understood the content of its rewordings. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The House has the right to know what it will be voting on later.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u58	Of course, ma'am. On Amendment No 715 the opinion on the first point of the system is in favour with rewording, while it is in favour of the second point, because it is absorbed by motion No 590, at first signature Centinario; on the third point the opinion is in favour with rewording, as well as on the fourth point, always taking up the text of the abovementioned motion No 590; on the fifth point the opinion is in favour with rewording, as well as on the seventh, while on the sixth point it is in favour. On Amendment No 716 the opinion is in favour of the first and second points being reworded. On motion No 718 the opinion is in favour, while on motion No 730 it is in favour with rewording of all points. On Amendment No 731 the opinion is in favour of rewording the first, second, third, sixth, eighth and ninth points, whereas it is against the fourth and in favour of the fifth and seventh points.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u59	There's not an eighth and a ninth point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u60	Mr D'ONGHIA, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. The eighth then, I screwed up. Anyway, we'll send the lyrics. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But we need to discuss something that we have confidence in, and there are not even the points that reformulation is called for. Mr D'ONGHIA, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. I give them to you as letters, I gave the points to be more precise. DI BIAGIO (AP (Ncd-CpE)). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Mr D'ONGHIA, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. I apologise, Mr President, but as you can see, the texts are very complex. As far as motion No 731 is concerned, there are no points but there are several commitments, so I quote them as such. If you will, Mr President, I can read what the amendments are, but they are very long. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not possible to proceed in this way. We have to distribute written texts. [[Senator Centinario points out that he wants to intervene.]] We finish with the opinion on motion 732, then I give the floor to Senator Centinario. Mr D'ONGHIA, State Secretary for Education, University and Research. On motion 732, at the first signature of Senator Barani, I give a favourable opinion with rewording on the first, second and third points and a favourable opinion on the fourth and fifth points.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u63	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, if you had given me the floor earlier, I would have saved you some time. It seems to me that the only motion on which there is no proposal for reformulation is the one tabled by the Democratic Party, while all the other motions are totally rewritten by the Government. I have read the motion tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and I am not so convinced, I do not accept the rewording proposed for the motions at my first signature and therefore, as far as I am concerned, we can vote on the motions immediately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petraglia, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u64	Mr President, it is even difficult for us to say whether we accept or not, because at some point we have heard that there is a rewording of which we do not even know the text and we have been sent back to pieces of the rewording of the motion to Senator Centinario's first signature. That's how it gets complicated. If we are to express ourselves on this matter, it is clear that from what we have heard in relation to the rewording of the motions to Senator Centinario's first signature, the rewordings show the delegations as they are written, the ones on which we should discuss in order to amend them. We are not able to express ourselves because we do not know the rewordings, in any case if that is the orientation, our position is obviously contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u65	Are you therefore against accepting the amendments? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u66	At this moment there are two divergent positions: Senator Centinario does not accept the reformulation and still wants to go to the vote. You say that you are not able to understand the rewordings and that would lead to a postponement. At this point I would ask the House to comment on the Presidency's proposal to postpone the examination of motions so that there may be the distribution of the written texts of the rewordings, so that everyone accepts or does not know what is being talked about, because I myself, frankly, although I have followed the subject, would have some difficulty. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal to postpone the debate on motions for a further sitting. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 589, 590, 697 (text 3), 704, 715, 716, 718, 730, 731 and 732 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the debate on motions for resolutions to another sitting. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I shall therefore refer the motions back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u69	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I will come back and talk about hepatitis C. If they do not agree to lower prices, we could ask the Government as an extreme ratio for the application of the 2006 Trips international agreements, which, in the event of public health emergencies, allow States to use the compulsory license, this is what the Aifa says, which seems to have lost patience in the face of Gilead's claims (after having granted him so much). In the meantime, nothing moves in patient care. The right to care for hundreds of thousands of people is still denied. These are words printed in black to white in my motion tabled in June 2016 and retabled, as text 2, at the end of January 2017. I ask companies for an ethical price, because I intend to extend the right to treatment to the less serious patients, otherwise the virus will continue to infect other people. And let us not forget that Italy is one of the countries with the highest presence of HCV. The contract between Aifa and Gilead (started at the end of 2014 and expired in June 2016) that had set the price for a treatment cycle (84 tablets) at about 41,000 euros, charged by the National Health System; at the moment 67,000 were treated, compared to an estimate of 900,000 patients. A secret contract of which details were disclosed only on its expiry. The pull and spring has been going on for too many months between Aifa and Gilead; the Aifa is not willing to pay more than 4,000 euros per treatment; if not - for extrema ratio - compulsory license with production of generics at the military pharmaceutical plant in Florence. I remind you that my battle began in June 2016 and in a press conference, with the participation of Senator Nerina Dirindin and Professor Gavino Maciocco, we denounced the cynical and overwhelming financial and speculative operation carried out by the pharmaceutical industry Gilead. The price of the new hepatitis C medicines is imposed for each country at the highest possible level for their national wealth, so that it is sustainable only on condition of treating a minority of patients. In this way an unprecedented rationing is required. I am pleased that the Aifa has spoken the word taboo "obligatory license," but it must be done quickly. The aim of Aifa is to eradicate the virus in three years, curing 298,000 people with proven viraemia. The eradication of hepatitis C is a fundamental objective of the World Health Organisation and it is good that Aifa talks about it, but it is certainly not the task of Aifa - but of the Ministry of Health - to organise the enterprise. And it won't be easy. I therefore call on everyone to make every effort to ensure that the Ministry of Health takes control of this situation and to fight to ensure the cure for hepatitis C to all the citizens who need it. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Elena Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u72	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this week there will be a commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the tragic events that took place on 26 February 1992 in a small town in the Azerbaijani region of Nagorno-Karabakh, called Khojaly. Besieged by the armed troops of Armenia, Azerbaijani civilians were killed only because of their ethnicity. Their sin was only to be Azerbaijanis. The result was incredibly tragic: 613 people were killed, including 106 women, 63 children and 70 elderly; other people were killed with particular cruelty, exterminated families, orphaned children. As a result of this tragedy, 487 people were rendered invalid and 1,275 civilians, including women and children, were captured and suffered violence and serious injuries during their imprisonment (among them, 150 prisoners disappeared without a trace). Living here quietly in Rome, it is difficult to imagine the brutality and understanding the resentment of the victims of Khojaly. There are testimonies. I recently had the opportunity to read an article in which a 20-year-old survivor told of her experience when the Armenian troops began the assault of the city. They escaped to the frost, through the woods; she was reached, raped and spectator of the killing of children, elderly, pregnant women (and the list could continue). After being released from captivity, it took twenty years for the rehabilitation and integration of this woman, Durdane Agayeva, into society. He lost 20 years of his life. As a woman, I put myself in her shoes and invite you to do so, to feel the pains of these people and the feeling of seeing that the world is silent and no one is considered responsible. I wonder: are there, therefore, A- and B-series genocides? Of course, in Italy it took seventy years before officially recognizing, almost everyone, the horror perpetrated in the foibe for the ethnic cleansing suffered by the Italians by the troops of Tito. How long will it take to resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh issue? For over twenty years, with the military occupation by Armenia of Nagorno-Karabakh and the seven surrounding Azerbaijani districts, Armenia has invaded 20 percent of Azerbaijan's territory. This occupation, in addition to causing 30,000 deaths among Azerbaijani citizens, forced Azerbaijan to host a million refugees (I remember that the country, as a whole, has 10 million inhabitants). There are four UN Security Council resolutions, Nos. 822, 853, 874 and 884, which call for the withdrawal of the Armenian armed forces from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan and the return to their refugee lands. There are also other documents from the United Nations General Assembly, the Council of Europe, the European Union, the European Parliament, the OSCE and NATO. What are we still waiting for? For this reason, I call on the Italian Senate and Government to recognize the genocide of Khojaly, to condemn the perpetrators of the genocide, who make up the political and military leaders in Armenia today, and to give a legal and political assessment in order to comfort the survivors. I also propose that on February 26 it become a day of commemoration of the genocide of Khojaly in the Senate every year. [[Applause from Senators Pelino, Mandelli and Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-765.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
