ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 9 and 10 March 2017 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you every success. [[Applause]] ) - Mr Senators, the European Council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, for us and for Italy, is important mainly because it is the last stage of the debate before the celebrations and the related Declaration for the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, which will be held in fifteen days here in the Capital. On this subject, the debate on this celebration and on the Declaration to be prepared, the Friday day of the Council will be dedicated. I would like to start from this, because perhaps on the agenda of a little transitional Council - as it were - it is the element of greatest interest to the Italian Government and Parliament. You know that 25 March marks the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties in the Hall of the Orazi and Curiazi in the Capitol, where they were signed. That signing took place sixty years ago - as is well known - after a series of failed attempts, such as that of the European Defence Community, or partial ones, such as that of the European Coal and Steel Community. And it gave a first outlet to the great Europeanist ambition that for decades crossed the best parts of the European ruling and intellectual classes, with the idea of the six founding countries, including Italy, to move the steps towards a single market. The idea was that the single market, of which the first bases were then laid, could have been the driving force and the presupposition of a political union, of a more general union path. Today that this building is under pressure, and sometimes under accusations in a significant part of the public opinion of different European countries, I believe that we must and should first, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary, acknowledge that the path that started at that time has produced, in any case, extraordinary results. And I believe that we will have many opportunities to do so in the next fifteen days, when Italy will be a kind of construction site, because there will be meetings between the different parliaments, between trade unions and business organizations, between think tanks. Our country will be, for about ten days, a construction site of European and European debates. And we must - at least this is the view of the Government - use this opportunity to reaffirm the extraordinary results that, despite today's difficulties, have been achieved in sixty years. For younger generations, perhaps, they have been taken for granted, but I believe that my generation - for example - is very clear about the privilege of having been able to go through a very long period of peace in Europe, without wars. The first great achievement, therefore, in a Europe that had produced in the first forty years of the last century, tragedies and millions of deaths, was peace, a stable peace. The second result is that the European Union has been, as it evolves, an extraordinary engine of freedom, and we often forget that too. We know that the European Union building has allowed us to leave the fascist dictatorships that had involved countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal and communist dictatorships in Eastern Europe. Without the European Union, getting out of this situation would have been very difficult. Of course then Europe - here we touch on one of the painful points of the debate in recent years - if we look at it in a long perspective, it has been, even in terms of the model of social protection, a huge achievement. And in a sense, the European system of protection of rights and welfare - although today shaky and disputed - is referred to the world as a result. We must not hide the difficulties of today. But if we are a ruling class aware of our role, we must also tell of the successes that have been achieved in the last 60 years, otherwise we will not find the keys to move forward. And they are: Europe's commercial superpower, the single market, the extraordinary lever of a great commercial force that today, in a complicated world like the one in force, is now up to date. There are large countries, large areas of the world that look with interest to Europe as a trading partner of great potential. Finally, we have a Europe of culture, education and shared values. All this, of course, is threatened today, it is in difficulty. Far be it from me to imagine a government that uses the opportunity of sixty years of signing the Treaties to make only the story of the achievements and positive results that have been acquired. In fact, I believe that all of us are still hearing the exhortation that Pope Francis launched last year, receiving the Charlemagne Prize, about Europe, asking ourselves and asking us: What has happened to you, a humanistic Europe, a champion of human rights, democracy and freedom? What happened to you? And this will be the subject of the discussions over the next few days and I hope the Rome Declaration: to tell not only the results of the European Union, but also the prospects for the next ten years; to imagine, that is, what the European Union can be in the next ten years and to do so by trying to anchor - this will be the effort of the Italian Government together with the Community institutions - the Rome Declaration which could have some significance for the history of the European Union. However, we are not unbalanced until we have developed the negotiations, which will not be easy, over the next fifteen days and which will begin on Friday. It could, however, be a Declaration indicating a path, which must be focused on three great values for us. The first value is the international role of Europe and, therefore, the possibility for Europe to play a more important role on a geopolitical level and can do so first by working towards greater integration of its forces and resources on the ground of security and defence. The second value is a Europe more oriented in terms of economic policies, growth, investment and social protection. Finally, the third is a Europe which does not give up the free movement of people - one of the extraordinary achievements of recent years - but at last brings together a common migration policy with the free movement of people. In a week's time, on 15 March, at the Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg, at the invitation of the newly elected President of the European Parliament, Tajani, whom I thank, together with the President of the European Council and the President-in-Office of the Council, I shall try to express these concepts with a view to the Rome Declaration and the meetings to be held in the Capital. From the point of view of set-up, with what ambition does the European Union move along these tracks? We certainly do not expect the answers to the future shape of the European Union to come from the Rome Declaration. Let us stand by the facts, which tell us that the European Commission issued a White Paper a few days ago which, in a sense, is a framework for discussion in the coming months and years. It is a very cautious instrument, for those who have had the opportunity to look at it, in which five different scenarios emerge, from the most minimalist to the most ambitious, on which we try to channel the discussion that will take place in the coming months and years. The position of the Italian Government on these scenarios outlined by the European Commission is quite well known: as Italy, we have always been in favour of integration in Europe. And, as far as the government I represent is concerned, we are in favour of considering these paths - as is said today - even with differentiated levels of integration. Behind this slang a little 'beginnings of the European debate there is basically the recognition of a de facto state: the slogan, the social name that has always existed on the building of the European Union, that is that the European Union must move towards ever greater integration, is a very difficult prospect to be realized today in Europe at 28, or even at 27 that is expected. Some have seen the project of a Europe at different levels of integration as a project imagined against the countries of the so-called Visegrád group, that is, some countries of former Eastern Europe. But that's not what this is about. First of all, this is a reality, because today and for years, not for a few days, Europe on fundamental issues has different levels of integration: there is the euro Europe and there is the European Union with individual national currencies; there is the Schengen Europe and there are several countries of the European Union that do not join Schengen; there are countries of the Union that are part of NATO and others that are not part of it. The possibility of differentiated levels of integration is already provided for in the existing Treaties and is not something that needs to be changed today. I understand that in some Member States of the Union this prospect can be seen with concern, but it is - I repeat - a matter of giving a further chance to a reality that we already have, and certainly not to change it in these weeks and months in a formal way, going to discuss what are today the legal pillars of the Union. To conclude the part about the Treaties of Rome and what is perhaps the most important chapter of the next European summit, I repeat that these sixty years are certainly celebrated at a time of difficulty. On 23 June last year we had the vote of the citizens of the United Kingdom to leave the European Union; it was a shock, to some extent unexpected, that will mark the course of the Union for the coming year or year and a half, since, probably at the end of the month, the London Government will decide to activate the procedure provided for in Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. And there will be a negotiation to which I believe Italy must be prepared with a friendly attitude towards the United Kingdom in terms of geopolitical cooperation, common interests in some areas of the world that remain fundamental, making it clear at the same time that it is not possible to have the benefits of the single market and, at the same time, not to share the commitments of the European Union. I believe that this awareness has developed in the United Kingdom over the last few months and that this creates the basis for a reasonable debate. The concerns arise not only from the vote of 23 June, but also from a general international context which I feel, to some extent, certainly worrying, but which I think Europe should consider, not so much because of the concerns but because of the opportunities it opens up to the European Union. It is useless to spend the next few weeks wondering what will be the choices of the new American administration, with which, moreover, for obvious and ancient relations, the Italian Government is very interested in having the best possible level of collaboration. The problem of European countries is not to question themselves by looking in the hope for signs of what may be the choices in this or that direction. The problem is that we, on the basis of our history, our experience, know that the temptations to see our national interests as opposed to the national interests of our neighbours in Europe have never brought good, indeed have caused tragedies during the last century. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Senators Bocchino, Molinari and Naccarato.]] That is why the European Union also faces the risk of returning to national closures not only as a threat, but also as a great opportunity for an integrated commercial economic area such as ours, which can become a point of reference at international level. The great difficulties that are clear to all, on an occasion such as the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, must become an opportunity. It is worth what Altiero Spinelli wrote in one of his famous quotes: The value of an idea, even before its final success, is demonstrated by its ability to rise from its defeats. And the European Union must demonstrate in these months that it is capable of rising from its defeats. This is the picture of the debate that we will have on Friday on the contents of the first concepts of the Rome Declaration. I would like to conclude by pointing out to the Senate two or three other subjects on the agenda of tomorrow's summit and which require our assessment. The first is that we will take stock, even with a report by Mario Draghi, of the state of European economies. We have a position - I believe - that Italy respects the rules of the European Union, but it even wants to contribute, if possible, to a process of changing its policies. It is a difficult balance - to respect the rules and try to change policies - but it is the path that we must take, in order to ensure that the European Union has a role of accompaniment and not of depression towards economic growth, which is particularly necessary for us. We know, in fact, that economic growth in our country is still slow, although the distance from the group, i.e. from the average growth of other European countries, was the lowest in 2016 for five, six years; but this distance remains. In a month's time, with the Economic and Financial Document, we will indicate the choices and proposals of the Government to Parliament to make further progress. In Brussels it must be very clear from the outset, however - then it will also be formalized in April - that in Italy the reforms not only did not stop, but did not at all slow down their course. Moreover, those who carry out their activities in the Senate and in the House know perfectly well. Government activity continues: from measures to protect savings to school, from immigration to public administration, to armed forces, from criminal proceedings to urban security, from the law on poverty to those on competition and the rehabilitation of the suburbs, to bankruptcy law. I do not want to continue in the catalogue, but I challenge anyone to indicate another Government and another Parliament that in Europe today is engaged in a whole of reforms such as that on which we are engaged in Italy. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Naccarato.]] We are not the first in the class, but we do not accept lessons and work in the common interest. The common interest is, in our view, part of correcting the Union's economic policies, just as it is part of having a Union more present in terms of security and defence. Here too there is a space that opens. There is an obligation to share internal security and defence commitments and perhaps there is also an area that the new international context offers to the European Union. So even that project from which everything began at the beginning of the 1950s and then interrupted at the time for the opposition, in particular, of President De Gaulle, that is, the project of a defence community, could today be one of the paths on which the project of the European Union takes life and breath. Small steps have already been taken. Last week - as you know - a unified military command was decided by the European Union for so-called non-executive missions - a somewhat strange military term - which concerns some theaters in which the European Union is engaged which have some strategic importance also for our interests. I think - to give just one example - of Somalia. Finally, in addition to the state of European economies and security and defence policies, the third and final issue that will be discussed - great news - will be migration policies, or rather common immigration policies. These policies - I would like to say this once again before the Senate - in particular as regards the reception of refugees, are not an Italian claim, but a decision taken by the European Union. The reception policies of refugees who are entitled to asylum are not our claim: they are a decision that has been taken by the European Union. And I am not referring to the idea of a Union that has two different rigidities: an absolutely immovable rigidity when it comes to budget commas and a very distracting and very tolerant rigidity when it comes to decisions that deal with issues of principle. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Naccarato.]] Among the issues of principle is the sharing of commitment on migration issues that cannot be left only to the countries that geography has put at the forefront and that the European Union should support and support. In Malta, at the informal summit of a month ago, a few small steps forward have been taken which translate - let us say the truth without scum - in the fact that a policy carried out by our country towards both Libya and Niger and other African countries is being supported. Formally, the European Union supports Italy in its bilateral agreement with Libya and the Italian proposals in the package concerning cooperation on migration issues with five African countries, beginning with the most strategically important one, namely Niger. It will be said - and it is sacrosanct - that the agreements we have signed with the Libyan authorities have not interrupted the migratory flows: if anyone had promised that this would happen, it would have been a little reckless. I, Minister Minniti and Minister Alfano certainly have not made such promises. We know the fragility of the Libyan situation and the complexity of the stabilisation process. But we also know that the fact that this work has begun; that the Libyan authorities have designated their delegation in the Italian-Libyan common direction cabin that must deal with the issue; that in recent weeks they have begun to intervene by their means to retain a certainly very small part of migrants who are about to cross the sea, are signs in the direction in which we are working. We do not sow illusions, but we know that on this road, however impervious and risky, we can achieve the only results that today allow us not to cancel the issue of immigration - because neither does the magician Merlin - but to regulate the flows and gradually replace irregular illegal immigration, deadly for migrants and for the traffic that revolves around you, with more acceptable flows and channels, reduced and regulated. This is the objective that the European Union should set itself and I expect that, as it was in Malta, in Brussels, an extra step will be taken, especially in terms of resources, to help Italy in the state-of-the-art work that is taking place on the central route of the Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, what I am asking of you in view of tomorrow's summit and the day after tomorrow on behalf of the Government is very simple. In other words, I ask you to be able to bring to the table the position of one of the great founding countries, which still believes - we could say more than ever - in the European project, despite its obvious difficulties. It will say this solemnly on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome. I ask you to share the struggle that the Government will wage for a different economic policy, based on growth and social protection. I ask you to support our requests for concrete aid to a country like ours which is at the forefront of immigration, particularly on the Central Mediterranean route. With your support, with the support of Parliament, I hope that at that table the Government will be able to play a role worthy of Italy. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE), Art.1-MDP and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and Roman Senators Maurizio and Naccarato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u6	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u7	Mr President, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, the Group of the Party of European Socialists fully identifies and shares the words with which you have recalled the extraordinary results achieved by Europe in these first sixty years of its integration history, which are summarized in the triad of peace, freedom, development and economic well-being. Of course, we must take note of the difficulties and crises of the many faces that the European Union and the euro area have been experiencing for a long time. And in the face of the new challenges, it is widely held that Europe cannot stand still, but must change both step and direction. However, as we know, there is no unanimity on the way these changes take place, on how and with whom to change; on the contrary, the differences are very marked in Europe and also in our country. There is the proposal of the so-called new sovereignists, who, in the face of the current challenges, call for new closures, a return to the past within national borders. It must immediately be said that it is unacceptable to claim to be able to recover sovereignty by waving the old flag of nationalism. If we mean by sovereignty the power to intervene, by a country, effectively to solve problems, to offer solutions, who can believe that, faced with problems such as immigration, international terrorism, climate change, the confrontation in the global economy between large poles, such as the United States and China, we can recover effective powers at the level of the individual country, regain national control capacity of new global phenomena? It is a statement - this of the new sovereigns - completely unfounded, a pure propaganda; an illusion that, if persecuted, would cost very expensive. In fact, the opposite is true: Europe is the only one that can ensure a genuine and effective capacity for intervention, an ability to manage these phenomena. It could be said that the real sovereignists, who want to regain their control and management capacity, are today those who are in favour and are fighting for a revival of Europe, for a revival of its integration; of course, a Europe that decides to move forward, to relaunch its integration process. And a way forward - as you said today - is a so-called differentiated, multi-speed Europe that introduces more advanced forms of political subjectivity and democratic accountability among the most integrated countries. By the way, it is a situation - as we know - that already exists. But a differentiated Europe to do what? That is the fundamental question. Here it must be reiterated: in order to give concrete and effective answers to the real needs of European citizens, which can be summed up precisely in the three main problems you have mentioned: the challenge of immigration, greater responsibility for defence and foreign policy, a revival of inclusive growth, through improved governance of the eurozone. Of course, there are other problems along these lines, but I believe that those I have just mentioned can be considered fundamental, because they are existential challenges for the survival and relaunching of the European construction. With regard to security and defence, it is difficult to recall a recent period in which a qualitative leap in European cooperation has been as necessary as it is today. Hence the relaunch of the common European defence project, the European defence action plan, so that Member States can pool their defence capabilities in the form of permanent structured cooperation, which must aim at developing cooperation and ensuring a more efficient and consistent use of defence spending plans. Moreover, all surveys and surveys tell us that the wish for progress in this area is at the forefront of European citizens' preferences. At the economic level, there is also the theme of relaunching growth, of inclusive growth, that is, offering opportunities to the widest possible range of European citizens. This naturally calls into question the issue of so-called euro area governance. Now - as we know - the Eurogroup is already strengthened cooperation, which includes 19 countries, and of course it will have to be the backbone of any possible relaunch of the integration process. Monetary union is a fundamental achievement that Europe has achieved, but it is a process that has stopped in half and thus risks new fragility. In order to complete it, three key elements must be achieved: firstly, a fiscal capacity, so that, at the level of the eurozone, those investments required to be able to relaunch growth well beyond the Juncker Plan, which remains a first positive result; secondly, a European Finance Minister, with a common budget management capacity at European level; thirdly, a banking union - which is very important to us - which is completed and financial integration associated with it. The banking union has also been left in half. We have done joint surveillance, but we still need to complete it with an effective resolution process and joint deposit insurance. But why can't you advance in this drawing? The problem is as follows. I believe that today it is due to a kind of mistrust and mutual distrust that divides the countries of the eurozone, which can be summed up in two different narratives - today this word is used - that clash precisely with the reform of the eurozone. There is a first narration by many countries in Northern Europe that underlines that the euro area is now more resilient and growth is satisfactory. But a second narrative, in which we find ourselves as a country, emphasizes the fact that actually growth is insufficient, has not reached yet and is not able to ensure levels of well-being that are, in some way, comparable to those before the crisis. There is an increase in poverty and inequality which we consider intolerable. That, Mr President, if this conflict were to become a dialogue between deaf people, it would mean a new paralysis of the European initiative and the risk of Europe itself being crushed. It doesn't have to be like that. And I believe that it is the meeting of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, both the meetings that will take place in Rome to remember sixty years are very important to start working on this compromise, which is possible and useful to all countries, to both groups of countries, and that I believe passes through an exchange between an assumption of greater responsibility in the processes of reform and fiscal discipline on the one hand and, on the other, an offer of greater solidarity and sharing of risks by the countries of Northern Europe. Now, of course, we as a country are interested. The future of our economy is linked to the future of the eurozone and the European Union. For our role, we as a country have more than any other to lose from a disintegration of Europe. I believe that, for the purposes of this essential compromise, which can relaunch the process of integration, our role, the role of our country, can be decisive, just as a hinge country between the two groups of countries to which I have referred. Therefore, the Government is pursuing a dual commitment: the development of very reasonable and constructive proposals at European level on specific issues and a full assumption of responsibility for the solution of problems that are specifically ours and that only we can solve. From this point of view, therefore, for us Europe is not only important, but also decisive as a reference context. To conclude, Mr President, I believe that in this spirit, on the one hand, we will be able to face the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome and, on the other hand, to reaffirm, as a Group of the Democratic Party, the full conviction that the revival of European integration is a project to be pursued and consolidated first and foremost in the primary interest of our country, but I would say of the whole European Union. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u8	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have requested the support of the Senate on the European policy line you have set out. I can only bring you my personal support, but I do so with much conviction having listened to you: conviction for the substance of the line you have set out and for the ways and tonalities with which you promise to carry it forward. I move on to three quick comments, the first of which on the different levels of integration within the terms you mentioned and with the cautions that the Lisbon Treaty already provides for clearly. I don't see any major inconveniences either. I think it can be, where necessary, one of Europe's ways of progress and I consider it also useful for Italy, in the sense that our country nevertheless draws great benefit from having a strong and functioning European Union in whatever circle of integration protempore belongs. Moreover, as we have seen in the past on various occasions, the prospect of possible different speeds or levels of integration has always exerted on Italy a healthy stimulus of emulation, which has often contributed to the modernization of the country. I'm going to move on to the second point. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, referred this morning two or three times to the term 'leading class'. I wonder what the real ruling class of the European Union is. The real ruling class of the European Union is very restricted: it is the European Council, which you are going to participate once again. I think it is very important, also in order to protect the European Union from indiscriminate criticism, to try to properly attribute responsibility to it. We may not share individual decisions of bodies that devote themselves full time to integration (i.e. the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Central Bank), but they do their work quite well. However, you know that, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, the real power has increasingly been concentrated in the hands of the European Council. It is, objectively, the far more lacking organ in its functioning, to which are due much of the backwardness in the decisions and, at national level (i.e. in the countries that the individual Heads of Government represent) often the non-execution of decisions even though taken in common. I wonder, then, Mr President-in-Office, whether the time has not come for a form of self-discipline of that body, perhaps with some kind of informal code of conduct, in order to avoid at least the most serious damage that the individual members of the European Council do in terms of communication, different and separate, of decisions to their respective national districts. When the Heads of Government, in their own countries - and more or less happens to so many of them - tell Europe to wake up and do something, usually - although not always - they should add that they themselves, as members of the European Council, have to wake up and act. In my opinion, Mr President-in-Office, you are in a very special situation for objective and subjective reasons. As far as objective situations are concerned, in a few days' time the European Council will appoint the new President of the Council, as he said, and perhaps that is an opportunity to reflect on the modus vivendi and on the soul of the European Council. Secondly, there is the work on the Rome Declaration: you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are the spiritual father of this work and you have the advantage, from this point of view, of having just arrived at the European Council and of seeing things fresh and distant. Perhaps you could propose to your colleagues an assumption of responsibility, at a time that would not just be a celebration. I should like to conclude with a very quick third point: I also liked the attitude that you, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, have expressed towards the European Union, that it is not of uncritical devotion or demonisation, but of respect for the European Union and its rules and, at the same time, of a strong commitment to promote the adaptation of those rules, both to the new requirements and to the defects demonstrated in the meantime. His and the Government's task, even at internal level, is therefore particularly important, because unfortunately the Italian public opinion, according to the polls, is the only one that, after the thunderous event of Brexit, has not shown an increase in its preference to remain in the European Union. So perhaps something specifically Italian has happened and I believe that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have all the rules - as you have shown here - to try to remedy them. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u10	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Monti, who preceded me very intelligently, pointed out that the position of the last Member of the European Council could be the best one to assert that need for sobriety, in assuming his responsibilities as Italians in Europe and Europeans in Italy, to which President Monti himself referred. My feeling is that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have already done so this morning in this House when you claimed to our country the absolute lack of vanity and attitudes from the very beginning of the class, but at the same time a certain pride in asserting national and supranational prerogatives. To understand and be clear, I want to say: never again Ventotene! That was a useless clown, which was subjected to Italian and German diplomacy - European in a more general sense - an initiative that four weeks later saw the slaps in the face in Bratislava and not even at the summit, but at the press conference of the Italian delegation, aimed at an inflexible negotiation on clauses and conditions of flexibility, ad usum all internal. Therefore, on my part and on the part of my colleagues in the Group, there was a broad consensus when the President-in-Office of the Council made this statement this morning. And we also share the phrase, taken from a quote from Altiero Spinelli, that, when ideas are really such, they are always able to rise from their defeats. From this point of view, however, not all the defeats we face have been suffered by the ideals of European supranationality. You rightly claimed the right to acquire rights of common migratory policies and European reception policies. This means, however, that there is a need for clarity on national territory and we expect a great deal from the initiative of my colleague, Mr Minniti, who has become the owner of the Viminale. What's the point of that gymnastics of cooperatives, regions, prefects and local authorities in terms of hospitality? I am referring to that toxic tour that we cannot dump on Europe from San Severo to Mafia Capitale. I think I'm pretty clear. Without mentioning the localism of the Legist colleagues, these are the prerogatives of an Italy that we do not like. Italy of the national state, in order to be truly European, does not have to hand itself over to the miseries of the State of the autonomy. After all, you have spoken about the ambitions of which we will begin to discuss from Friday in view of the celebrations of March 25. From this point of view, be it prudences or unscrupulousness of the White Paper, the five scenarios can also at the moment set aside them and make a beautiful contribution that, in the magazine "Limes" gave months ago an Italian diplomat of course lineage, Ambassador Ferdinando Salleo, who recalled Luigi Einaudi's speech on the Treaty of Peace. Remembering that Einaudi is a way of remembering De Gasperi in the aftermath of the Paris speech. Gentiloni Silveri is a Giolitti surname, but it is not anti-Egasperian at all. Those einaudian and degasperian sentiments must then be rediscovered, even with the words of Einaudi, who defined historical anachronism as the perching on national and European states and spoke of a work - "Opera," I say, and not preaching," said Einaudi - for European unity. On that occasion Einaudi was vulgarly attacked by the Unity, who called him the "Vice De Gasperi", looked far away, only that De Gasperi would want Einaudi at the Quirinale. Above all, the Unity wanted to continue in those drunken, nationalist positions on the Peace Treaty that had led the liberal press to define, a few months earlier, Mr Palmiro Togliatti \"Vice Molotov \" when he had vilely attacked behind the beautiful speech of De Gasperi in Paris. I think that those arguments and feelings are today the best distance against parties or movements - I don't know how much Putinians, scampians or both - that they are dressed in very nationalism and very little patriotism. They met a few weeks ago in Coblenz, but the words of Einaudi of 1947 apply above all against the exploitation of patriotism, against the idea of elevating barriers to impoverish peoples, to infuriate them against each other, to proclaim exclusive excommunications against foreign immigrants, as if they were lepers and almost the fierce shrinking of every people in themselves created wealth and power. I quote Einaudi because I think it is more timely and more reasoned than Pope Francis in the matter of reception and because I do not want any surrender in front of the so-called state of autonomy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your predecessor pretended not to notice this, but we heard words of genuine racism echo in that body of the State which is the State-Regions Conference. It is not presided over by a colleague in a bad mood, but it is a body of the Presidency of the Council, which many times, in this very matter, gives itself a rhetoric worthy of the worst collusions with the crime of the chronicles of San Severo and Mafia capital. The truth is that in this small European flowerbed - I use this expression because Einaudi used it when the UK's accession was not even imaginable - different attempts at sovereignty are repeatedly manifested. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would just like to say one thing: you, with great dignity, have been in Versailles in recent days and the heads of four major countries of European integration were present at that meeting. With the grace that suits the personal and political history of a President like Gentiloni Silveri, in my opinion, Italy in France should have told President Hollande with a low voice that what is happening in Paris, the trial against the historian of Labour Bensoussan, is a shame! In Dreyfus' country, trials for so-called Islamophobia cannot be celebrated as the one that fills the chronicles of French newspapers. If such an argument took into account the willing Mogherini in the matter of anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism, perhaps one would realize that Judea and Samaria may be inappropriate as the object of the political expansion of Jewish settlements, but the expression "occupied territories" belongs to the worst season of the UN. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish, Senator Comrade. Comrade (CoR). I shall conclude, Mr President. What would have been the point of defining occupied landowners as Alsace and Lorraine between 1870 and 1918? In Versailles he presided over Clemenceau, precisely because he had condemned the Dreyfus trial before the French public: this must be said very loudly in France, in the name of the European ideal. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u12	Senator Napolitano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciated the emphasis that the President-in-Office of the Council has placed on the value of the Treaties of Rome, on the fruitfulness and far-sightedness of that very difficult effort that was made for Europe to emerge from the defeat of the French vote on the European Defence Community and look ahead, concentrating its efforts on the field of the economy, but preserving the future. Retracing that period, on my behalf and for other purposes, I also came across the importance of the Italian contribution. We must therefore remember the contribution of the Minister for Foreign Affairs Gaetano Martino, who promoted and presided over the Messina Conference, and that of the President of the Council Antonio Segni, as well as high-level diplomats, including in particular Roberto Ducci, who was President of the Committee for the drafting of the Treaties of Rome under the leadership of the Belgian Prime Minister Spaak. It was an example that we must remember, but above all it was a story of successive advances and achievements that it is very important that the President-in-Office of the Council wanted to make so much use of. It would be time to rediscover a European pride that we have lost and Italian pride for the contribution we have made to European integration. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]] President Mario Draghi has all referred to this in a beautiful speech such as that given in Ljubljana, in which he has unmistakably demonstrated what progress Europe has been able to make through integration and how we would be much poorer and more isolated if we had not taken that path. As for what the Declaration can tell us, I would like first of all - and I think it is possible - Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the Declaration for the 60th anniversary echoes the dramatic words that were spoken in Versailles the day before yesterday and that are a new fact. We have heard President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel (the Italian positions were already on that line) say dramatically that Europe cannot stand still unless it risks seeing what it has built collapse, that Europe must advance along the path of integration, if necessary even at different speeds. I believe that this would already be important and challenging, and I think that this can be achieved, because at a certain moment, for the sake of realism, we have noted that in the 2017 election year it would have been useless to expect decisions of extraordinary scope, but we have even feared that this year was marked, as well as by the inaction, by the silence of the Union. This wasn't and I don't think it should be when you gather here in Rome to celebrate your 60th anniversary. The words of Chancellor Merkel first in Malta, and then his and those of the other three Heads of State and Government gathered in Versailles can also be considered an understandable and legitimate reaction to a long exercise of discomfort and patience that has accompanied us in recent months. Because Brexit has been answered by the 27 remaining members of the European Union with an appeal to unity, to remain united, but without taking a single step forward: this was the price that has been paid and that is rightly said today with conviction (it is not words that can expire twenty-four or forty-eight hours after the Versailles meeting) that we cannot stand still and that we must move in a precise direction: that of the further and more coherent development of the integration process. Of course, we know that not all 27 share the goal, targets and modes or the speed of advance on that ground. There is also something more we need to be aware of. Last night on the news I heard and saw - and I don't think I was the only one - words and images that deeply impressed me: the words of xenophobic alarmism of the Hungarian Prime Minister, the images of barriers, barbed wire and a special body of anti-immigrant guards that characterize that Government's response to the great phenomenon of migration and the pressure of asylum seekers who invoke a universally recognized right. I would say that it is very difficult to understand at what speed and in what direction it is possible to move with these positions which deny the constituent values of European integration. The roadmaps and even a roadmap for the development of the integration process are contained in a document dated 22 June 2015, that of the five Presidents, which also starts from the need for an economic union aimed at growth, employment and social protection policies. But soon the first stage of that road map will come to an end and nothing has moved: I wonder if they have weighed negatively more the timidities of the countries that believe us or the reluctances and obstructive challenges of the countries that do not share those directions. We can move forward in the direction of different speeds; it is already very important that concrete progress is made on defence policies. Here we remain also in the field of a vision of the Treaty, which is that of enhanced cooperation or, indeed, in this case, of cooperation which is defined in the Treaty of Lisbon which is structured. We can move forward in that direction and begin to resolve all the other questions which concern first, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the exercise of the necessary decisions as a European Council, taking advantage of all the possibilities of majority voting, which are not subject to unanimity or mere informal absences, which make those decisions dead letter. There are many questions to be resolved in order to move forward on the road that has already been drawn up and, in particular, on the road to a common immigration and asylum policy. The contribution that the current Government is making is important, projecting this policy in a perspective of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation and joint interventions for Africa's development. We are sure that we can count on the seriousness, constructive and collaborative commitment of our President-in-Office in Europe and we should be broadly united in giving him this mandate and in recognising this authority. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Senator Repetti. A lot of congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u14	We greet the students and students of the State Institute of Higher Education in Garda, in the province of Verona, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u16	Mr President, we have appreciated the calm ways in which President Gentiloni Silveri has come to this House. It has been a while since the Senate Chamber had a President-in-Office of the Council who, at least in his own way, confronted us. Therefore, we thank him at least for this, because we appreciated him. However, Mr President-in-Office, if the ways are appreciated, the content remains the same as ever. The European Council of 9 and 10 March, as you know and told us a few minutes ago, will touch very important points: employment, security and defence, migration policies, external relations, the future of the Union. The first advice that we want to give you in a very constructive way is not to do as your predecessor did: phenomenon in Italy and silent in Europe. In fact, if he comes here or goes to tell Italian newspapers about things that will not be reported to his European colleagues, it is logical that his European colleagues and Europe will not have good in mind or will not know the exact picture of our nation. So explain what our country really is like. We ask you to tell us that despite the fake reforms of Dr. Renzi's previous thousand days, youth unemployment in Italy is 40%; we ask you to remind your colleagues that there are 4,200,000 Italians below the absolute poverty threshold, despite the thousand days. We still ask you to remember that there are 150,000 Italians who cross our borders every year and go abroad to look for a job; that in the last four years of your governments Italy has lost 194,000 companies and 800,000 employees; that in the last year 19,000 commercial stores have been closed, that the growth of 1%, with which some fill their mouths by making some propaganda towards the most inattentive Italians, is the worst in Europe. Tell us, President, about what is happening in our streets, about the protests of taxi drivers who, despite the clashes, have brought a real and important problem; that there are friends of Uber, Uber's friendly lobby, who was daily by her predecessor, and that Mrs Lanzillotta has now endorsed. It gathers and brings the protests of the beaches and walkers who have been humiliated; they are enterprises humiliated by the Bolkestein directive and by these governments, who do nothing to protect our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] Mr President, you are talking about farmers, fishermen, the rice and fisheries sectors, which are also massacred by Europe and Italy in silence. You talk and explain the Italians who were scammed by the banks. Didn't you have to repay them? Didn't you have to help them? They're still protesting. Then tell the drama of the precarious teachers, the drama that is experiencing the Italian school that was the priority of your predecessor, as well as your President of the Council in a government in which you were also present, President Gentiloni Silveri. A school in chaos. Ignorant Italians means ignorant European citizens. Tell the problem of volunteer firefighters, waiting to see your promises fulfilled. Talk about the earthquake victims and explain to your colleagues what happened in the earthquake zones: 2,000 houses had to arrive, but 50 have arrived. You are talking about the problem of farmers, stables, those who are experiencing the tragedy of losing everything, the communities affected by bad weather in the second decade of February: do something concrete for these people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] There are abandoned fractions. The "phenomenon" that preceded it had said: We will never abandon you. At this point, it is up to you to ensure that that "we will never abandon you" is not the usual promise of the "Lord of Florence," but is a serious State that helps our fellow citizens in difficulty. Go to Europe, President Gentiloni Silveri, to support our proposal: exemption of taxation and establishment of a free zone for five years. It is not enough to postpone the payment of taxes: it is necessary to ensure that economic activities are resumed in these areas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] We need serious proposals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council Gentiloni Silveri. You also tell about the smart cards, the civil servants who, despite your laws, still steal their wages and go on stealing without anyone saying and doing anything. Tell the story of the Consip affair and explain to Europe what is happening: the largest contracting station has ended up in the storm thanks to the "magic lily" of Florence. Stories of the fact that our country - explain it, because maybe this can be a justification - is blocked because there is the PD congress and therefore politics is all blocked and nothing is done. We don't give a damn about the PD congress; it's your business! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] People who starve to death, who do not arrive at the end of the month, who commit suicide because they have the company in difficulty are not interested in the Congress of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Who cares about the PD congress? Do this convention and free us from this torment that is really breaking the world's boxes. [[Senator Albano's comments.]] This government - as you told us - was born to make reforms, such as the reform of the electoral law. After the referendum on December 4, you made fun of the Italians, who said you had to leave, claiming that a government was needed to do the electoral reform. Given that electoral reform makes it House and Senate, so here too there is some political ignorance (but that's okay), the truth is that electoral reform is the last of your thoughts, because there is the PD Congress. And then there is Alfano who has to make his new party; consequently we have to wait for him to make his new party (because with the NCD in my opinion the Italians kill him), or there is the PD Congress. But that is all right, Mr President: these can be excuses. I do not talk much about immigration because a note has just arrived saying that the weaknesses of the Italian system of voluntary returns and forced expulsions risk encouraging the influx of an increasing number of irregular economic migrants. This is not what Matteo Salvini says, but Bocek, the special representative of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe for migrants and refugees. Europe doesn't trust you either. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] Too easy therefore on immigration "to shoot on the Red Cross" and on its Foreign Minister who, when he was Minister of the Interior has done more than Bertoldo, and who now, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, is doing nothing. Let me just ask you one thing, Mr President: the quotas promised by Renzi, where have they gone? The reunions, where are they? Quick I.D.s, where'd they go? But the League is racist. You do nothing, but the League is racist. In the meantime, Mr President, our country is full of clandestine, clandestine, nothing-making or people exploited by disgusting and unscrupulous Italians (let's think about the caporalate and what happens in South Italy). A suggestion, since you say you have such an efficient Minister of the Interior: police forces in those camps and so on, all at home. Those who have to go home go home and people are not exploited and do not have to live like animals. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]] Mr President, it should be a priority of the left that people do not live in those conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u17	Conclude quickly, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u18	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm done, Mr. President. You complain because Italians no longer have children; but we do not see policies designed to encourage births and, in our opinion, you do not think about how to protect women and families. What do you want to increase births with? By the law of Cirinna? With the uterus for rent? With U.N.A.R. funds for some couples or friends of friendly friends? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti. Comments from the PD Group.]] This does not encourage births, Mr President. So you're clowns. PUPPATE (PD). He's off the charts. He'd get three at school. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, we heard it a few days ago, on a well-known television show, making promises in Renzi style. You, President Gentiloni Silveri, are appreciated for your seriousness and for your calmness (you think that your political opponents say so too: seriousness and calmness). Again, one last advice (and then, if you will, do not accept it): do not let yourself be infected by the disease of the "announcement," President. Going on television to announce certain things, when you know very well that they will not be realized, is the "renzite" is the disease of the "announcements." If it were infected, at this point, it would be the confirmation of what we have been saying for a few months now: this is the "Renziloni" government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Gentiloni Silveri rightly recalled these sixty years as marked by many achievements; one for all, perhaps we should remember more forcefully and on several occasions: it is the longest period of peace that the history of this continent has ever lived. Yet today Europe is at the crossroads - or rather it is too long in the middle of the ford - and this has produced increasing temptations to go back, in the forms of Brexit, a resurgent nationalism, today accompanied also by a rising neo-isolationism in the United States. The alternative to these temptations is to move forward consistently, courageously, on the path of integration. After monetary and banking union, common defence is needed to ensure peace and security, rationalising military spending; common fiscal and social policies; common immigration policies. The perception and substance of the European Union's image and action must be changed rapidly. There is an absolute need for more social Europe, more infrastructure investment, more tools to combat unemployment and inequality. Mr President, we must have the awareness - and I think you have it - that we have a very critical passage ahead of us, which has not yet been mentioned here: the next conclusion of the extraordinary effort of quantitative easing, due to the intelligent leadership of the ECB by Mario Draghi. We must avoid creating a step that is too high and dangerous, in which the European economy, which is now characterised by weak growth and a leopard, can stumble and drag the European institutions with it. To the attacks of what has been described by many scholars as "national populism," one does not respond with the same weapons as that gritty neoliberalism that has helped to give it sap and consent in recent years. Europe and democracy are defending themselves with greater intervention by the public hand, certainly innovative and different from the past, but at last oriented towards growth, public investment in infrastructure, a fiscal policy to combat evasion and avoidance at continental and international level. National populism is fought with a European plan for work that gives hope to millions of young unemployed people. Finally, it is on the ground of immigration policies that the European Union is playing and will play a large part of its credibility. The European Union cannot continue to pretend that this issue is not structural and will last for many years. Problems of this importance, problems of this complexity cannot be answered by leaving only those states which, like Italy, are on the hot front of migratory flows and cannot even be answered, however, on the part of the European Union, by accepting silence that in Europe of the 21st century there are walls and use brute force against children, women and unarmed men who are fleeing from the war. This is not the Europe that our founding fathers dreamed of; this is not the Europe that they outlined with foresight in the Ventotene Manifesto. Mr President, on the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, therefore, we invite you to move forward with courage and determination on the path of greater integration and a social and solidarity Europe. On this ground, we are loyally prepared to make our contribution and our support to the action of your Government. [[Applause from the Group Art.1-MDP and Senator De Cristofaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u21	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his timely reference to the context set out in the forthcoming anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, which, from my point of view, allows us to enter into the substance of the agenda of the European Council which awaits it with the most appropriate method, that is, not that of rhetoric for its own sake, but with what is the key, instead, to the construction of the path of European integration, that is, the mechanism of small steps. That is precisely why it will enable me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to put to your attention some of the thoughts I would like to have on the subject of an Italian initiative at the headquarters which is waiting for you tomorrow. First of all, I am referring to the part of the agenda that talks about immigration and therefore takes into account, in the light of the documents presented, also the proposals for combating illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. In recent days I have visited the command of the mission Eunavfor Med, European mission led by Italian officers, accompanying 50 students of the faculty of jurisprudence of the University of Turin for a comparison on those factors that make difficult what is defined by several parts the part three of the mission, that is that it should allow to intervene putting an end to the traffic of human beings. The call made by these officers is on a matter which in the past has made the best possible use of Europe's ability to intervene on a sensitive issue such as international piracy. Precisely, the crime of international piracy makes it possible to intervene in a transnational key and the European Union, addressing the problem with the Atalanta mission, has essentially solved it. Is it not then paradoxical that we can solve a serious problem such as that of the trafficking of goods according to illegal criteria, that is piracy, and we do not have as much foresight in dealing with human trafficking according to the key of a transnational crime, which recalls both the fact that it is now a matter of real crimes against humanity - considered the very high number of victims - and that it happens with all the characteristics with which international piracy takes place? As was rightly pointed out by the officers responsible for this European initiative, it is the European Union that must address and make its own this initiative in the context of the international community, so that trafficking in human beings is fully and completely equivalent to the crime of piracy. Therefore, I expect, I hope and hope that Italy will have the will to be an interpreter of this reflection, which is of the men in charge of the European Union, in order to solve a key aspect of the problem, in the most obvious and appropriate place, that of the European Council. I also hope that this will become a flag of the European Union in relations with the national community and the United Nations. I think it is very important to take this step, because otherwise what we might expect from Eunavfor Med will remain in its own end in time. The second issue which I consider to be equally specific concerns the issue of a common defence strategy. The idea of unified commands is certainly a step forward, but, Mr President, the crucial problem remains that of having a voice in the European Union's budget devoted to defence research, and it is Italy that can call this step more forcefully, even in the light of another point that seems to me to be key. On 3 December, the working group chaired by Professor Monti on own resources concluded its work and on 17 January it condensed its conclusions into a meeting with the European Commission. I was struck by the fact that the latter has said that it will deal with the key remark of this contribution, namely the need to review the structure of the European Union's budget in the next multiannual process. In other words, it seemed to me to be a way of elegantly circumventing the fact that we have before us a series of key national elections, such as the French and German elections, which could mean that the subject of the budget review, a concrete hope for the citizens of Europe, could be postponed a little too much, which they expect from this initiative of measures that can find answers more than concrete for the needs of hundreds of millions of citizens. I would like to conclude with a very specific last remark, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by reminding you that tomorrow, in the context of international relations, you will also be dealing with the Western Balkans segment. I must confess that I was very surprised by the statements made by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Mogherini on a country like Albania, in which the legitimate dialectic between opposing political forces at this time is reflected in a decision by the opposition forces to be outside Parliament, fearing that redundant drug trafficking in that country may have an influence on the next election campaign. Well, the High Representative has stigmatized this decision as a fact that slows down and risks curbing Albania's accession to the European Union. It left me appalled for a very simple reason: it is not the opposition that is boycotting Parliament; it is the Government that risks boycotting democracy and democratic standards, which are also explicitly required by the acquis communautaire. From this point of view, I simply hope that Italy will make it its concern in the Council that the European institutions are strictly impartial when it comes to the political contexts of countries involved in the accession process and that they will therefore be able to follow with attention and closeness everything that happens in these countries, but without taking sides of one or the other. [[Applause from Senator Mario Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u24	Mr President, I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for having very clearly outlined this morning the policy that Italy would like to be able to guide - he used this very important verb - within the successive summits, and also at the next celebration of this 60-year period, which must see us - in order to use a term that has made a transmission famous - double and not leave. The revival is, in fact, the only real hope that we have for Europe that we imagined and want, and that perhaps it is the most convenient one for countries like ours, which are, because of their geopolitical location, extended in a very "hot" Mediterranean, and which will become even more so in the years to come, if we are not able to unite and guide a policy of common defence with respect to the European theme. I think that this is the decisive element of these months, of this time, namely the transition from a fractionism that has still seen us think exclusively in national terms, to a true European integration, starting not only from the assumption of love that people like me and like my children have for a Europe that we take for granted, but also thinking that it is convenient for Italy and for all other European countries to join, for example, in a common defence. Let us also say that the common defence plan was already foreseen in the Lisbon Treaties; it has simply never been implemented. This plan, above all, predicts, according to very reliable recent estimates, about 120 billion euros of reduction of total cost for the 27 European countries: for Italy it means eight billion euros per year. Allow me, Mr President, to make a simple link: it is about the amount that would be needed to give 3.2 million Italian disabled people the doubling of their current disability pension, or to bring it to 500 euros per month instead of the current 250 euros, so ludicrous that it seems like a charity today, guaranteeing them the nobility and a civil honour. That's to say how useful it can be to get together. The same is true of the common welfare policy - and I quote this because you pointed out this in your speech in Versailles the other day. Well, I would like to mention one aspect of the common welfare that would allow us to avoid that unfair competition that still exists within Europe - to speak only of convenience and not of human and civil rights. Let's face it: we have also been very impoverished by the fact that some "pieces" of the European Union are much more advantageous in terms of labour costs and taxation. So joining, developing common fiscal and welfare policies is a great advantage for our country. I would also like to mention the issue of clean energy, which we will find in our motion for a resolution. I would like to say to you - you have mentioned this - that the legislative package that brings clean energy to all the European countries is another huge issue that brings benefits in terms of strengthening our businesses, our families, but above all Europe's ability to remove itself from today's heavy constraints. Well, clean energy for all Europeans, to exemplify here some truly extraordinary economic benefits, is a road we wanted, being that of climate change the guiding theme in the COP21 in Paris. We want to become the world's leader in the relationship of responsibility that must see us in the foreground against the increase in greenhouse gases, with the indirect consequences that nobody calculates, but that increase annually the burdens of all the countries of the world compared to the ecological disasters that take place. Here again we want to look to the future and not to the past; we want to imagine that tomorrow's Europe will be energy-efficient thanks to the solar of the countries of the South, but also thanks to the wind of the countries of the North, because this is how we imagine the Europe of the future: self-sufficient, responsible and sustainable. So federalism, the innovative one, the open one: this is the only real serious opposition to all unilateralism, to sovereignism, to all those populist realities that today feed xenophobia and detach from this Europe. It is clear that Europe must, however, be able to become even more credible, certainly more credible, and to revive, because public opinion looks at you, looks at us and is very careful, wants to be remotivated. This is what both President Napolitano and President Monti said before: in the end it will depend on how we work, on how we will be able to understand that the only true federalism that interests us is the European one and that the Europe that we want and that we really need to relaunch and build in this time is that of integration in every sense, for historical reasons, for human reasons, for civil reasons, but also for an economic convenience, that today knocks on the doors and asks us to become much more rational and much more able to think in positive, working on the things that serve and not only blowing on the fire of bad ideologies. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u25	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u26	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you asked this Senate, Parliament (I am thinking not only of your majority but of Parliament as a whole), for a mandate to represent Italy at the European Council, also with a view to the celebrations in Rome. The People's Area (Ncd-Centrists for Europe), our Group, gives you this solidarity and this mandate in a convincing way, making some considerations, which are very clear, I think, both to you, and to the Foreign Minister Alfano, and to the Government team. Firstly, we hope that the celebrations in Rome will be a political and uncelebrative occasion, that rhetoric will be kept at the lowest possible level and that there will be the ability to pass on a clear message to the citizens. What could be this clear message? These days we are talking - all our colleagues, even the most authoritative, who have spoken before me - about the issue of enhanced cooperation. In my opinion, President Napolitano has effectively defined them as integrations at different speed levels. They are not new (just think of Schengen, NATO, the euro), but today they are a challenge, because Europe cannot remain immobile. It cannot remain immobile, but at the same time, colleagues, in the presence of countries that are acting in a very different way from us, we run a great risk, if, animated by the best intentions and throwing our heart beyond the obstacle, we would define an accelerated timetable that would risk giving the alibi to these countries to get away from the process of European cooperation. So the issue of enhanced cooperation, in my opinion, is a good one, because we are choosing the right ground. We must offer the opportunity to countries that want to go faster to associate on concrete things. At this point, also the mechanism of relationship between the public opinions of other countries and their ruling class will be able to bring the public opinions of countries, which are out of initiatives that start and prove effective, to push their governments so that Europe can somehow embrace their countries as well. I would like to explain why, in recent months, the International Affairs Institute (IAI) has submitted a very interesting survey in my opinion. In this survey euroscepticism grows, the distance between citizens, even Italians, and Europe grows and distrust grows; however, in the last questions that are addressed to the same protagonists of the survey, there are revealing answers to everything. Because in the face of the problems identified by the citizens themselves as emerging (e.g. migration of refugees) people are asked the following question: "According to you, it serves more or less Europe to solve problems such as terrorism, refugees and the economy?" The same people who have shown no confidence in Europe say that more Europe is needed. The field of enhanced cooperation is therefore the right one, because it is the way to make it clear in concrete terms what happens if interesting processes and effective programmes start. I am thinking, for example, in terms of defence policy, of the possibility of putting something in common that can serve to govern the reaction against terrorism or the garrison of seas in great difficulty. Well, if these initiatives start, I hope that Europe will emerge from the celebratory contours and become a reality that even the most sceptical can touch with hand. Of course, we must be careful to avoid contradictions, because when I hear that we are talking about European defence, putting it almost at odds, because of the problems that exist, with NATO, you understand that we cannot speak credibly of European defence thinking of lightening our relationship with NATO. If anything, it's exactly the opposite. I do not know what the American administration will do, and if this will actually ask us for a greater commitment to NATO. Let's face it, Obama also asked us this, perhaps in a more civil way, but the substance didn't change much; Obama also told President Gentiloni Silveri in various circumstances: "You must take care of Libya." But what does it mean to say that we must take care of Libya? It means that American politics in the Mediterranean has changed substantially and that the greatest responsibility, which also involves more resources to invest, lies with the countries that live in this area. Therefore, a common European defence cannot in any way be contradicted by the process of redefinition of NATO, because otherwise it loses credibility from the outset. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I liked what you said. This is not something new, because President Renzi also said it, with whom I have always shared this approach (I see it in this continuity). There is a double unacceptable track: one cannot be distracted about emigration and quota redistribution and, on the other hand, rigorous beyond measure when it comes to accounting arithmetic (which I certainly do not want to diminish: we must keep our commitments, because this serves Italy, before Europe, therefore, also from this point of view we must be very serious). There is no doubt that we cannot stand on this double track and that at the same time we must call for a policy of greater presence in the Mediterranean area. Today, everyone has realised this: the Mediterranean is either the solution to our problems or the sea will create inextricable problems: from terrorism, to foreign fighters, to immigration, to the possible connection of these problems with the political phenomena that are ripening in Europe. I would like to end on this subject by making a point. I think we need to understand how we approach Russia. During the US presidential election we heard many words, but today we do not understand whether the facts go exactly in the direction of the words spent in the election campaign, because we see a certain difficulty in approach. I am very much in favour of reaching a possible agreement with Russia, which is a fundamental partner. Russia is taking positions today, because someone has left her space. It is clear that the American position in the Mediterranean has opened up space to a new Russian assertivity and presence. We must find a new approach to Russia, which is becoming a little bit the godfather or godmother of the new European populisms and also of all those movements which from within seek to weaken the process of European unification. I believe that, from this point of view, starting with the G8 in Sicily, we will have to play an important role. Mr Gentiloni Silveri, I believe that you share this line, because to a large extent it is what we all express. In this respect, it is a line expressed by the majority, but also by the opposition. Perhaps it is a certain Italian legacy that we have a special relationship with Russia, even in the context of absolute fidelity to the Atlantic commitments and to our European membership. You can play a fundamental role, Mr President-in-Office, because as part of the diplomatic community and the foreign ministers, you also have personal knowledge and a country behind you, which shares this line. Today the uncertainties of the American administration open the way for a relationship to be redefined with Russia. I do not know what it will be, but certainly we cannot leave the issue of Russia unfinished, as is the case today, uncertain between an old order, which we cannot defend and a new order, which we cannot build. Good job! [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u27	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, the fate of Europe will probably be decided this year. The citizens of France, Germany and other countries, in the choice of their governments, will also make a choice for a united Europe, or will contribute to the unraveling of Europe. Before this happens, there is still time for European leaders, as you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to push for a strengthening of Europe. The Rome Summit is certainly an opportunity not to be missed, but we must be clear about the current situation: the European spirit has faded, dangerous nationalist sentiments have risen, Europe's financial rules - as we know - have unfortunately increased the distance between countries rather than reduced them. I think the truth is simple: the European countries did not want to give up part of their sovereignty, precisely for fear of losing power, but paradoxically the opposite happened and they strongly weakened precisely for this reason. Those who believe that strengthening nationalism in European countries to the detriment of Europe strengthen them are out of the question: the truth is that strong nationalism, in a weak Europe or even outside Europe, weakens everyone. There are those who say that, after all, nothing has actually happened in the United Kingdom and perhaps they are better now. We must be careful, because we are not the United Kingdom, which already had its autonomy, starting with the currency and, however, despite this, it will have strong and major problems to solve. For us the story would be quite different: we need everything less than jumps in the dark. Mr President, in Paris we talked about a Europe at different speeds: my dream has always been and remains that of a strong and compact Europe, but, rationally, today it is difficult to think of it. We must look at reality and, therefore, to unlock this dangerous immobility, it is certainly also good to consider a Europe at different speeds, with different ambitions to give different answers, as you have said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. So we start from here, from a concrete first step and I hope that Italy, despite the setback due to an event that for me remains unexplainable, namely the rejection of the referendum on constitutional reform, will be able to resume the path of reforms, to be part of that strong Europe, which wants to go ahead and face the increasingly difficult challenges that the world reserves for us. In this regard, I have listened to your proposals for economic reforms: I believe that this is the right way and you will have my full support. In conclusion, Mr President, as we return to Europe, we need to speed up the process of tax harmonisation, common security and defence and immigration issues. Then there will be a future and the anti-European forces will be arrested; otherwise, even more so today, in a world governed by personalities, let me say, restless, a divided and broken Europe could, unfortunately, start, as happened in other historical periods, new authoritarianisms, new conflicts, but above all the loss of freedom that we have laboriously conquered. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u29	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address President Gentiloni Silveri: you, in your speech, stressed that this European Council will be a transitional one. It certainly is, but it is also an important moment, as it takes place on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome. It is the anniversary of an important moment, as he wished to remember, in which the idea and hope of a great Europe was born that could represent the future for our countries. The route was rough. You pointed out that before that there was the single market that should have been the driving force for what should have been political union. Instead, as we all know, there is a political union when there is a common defence policy and a common foreign policy, and this has unfortunately not happened. It has remained a market and its regulation that have become a burden for our country and for many other countries of the European Union. Nevertheless, we repeat it, we are and remain Europeanists and we believe that Europe has, with its few virtues and many defects, a great significance and great importance for our country. Dear President, that is why we do not accept the idea that has spread across Europe, namely that Italy is one of its main problems. This idea is also endorsed by those who, at national level, have wanted to speak of our country in recent days even as a terminally ill person. They are certainly concerned about the development of its public debt, its low rate of development and the crisis in its banking system. The few derogations granted, so-called flexibility, compared to major and dramatic emergencies, such as the natural disasters represented by the territory or the massive influx of migrants, have been preceded by strenuous negotiations that have led to little benefit compared to the heavy burdens that Italy has had to pay. The problem of mass emigration to Europe from the Mediterranean has been tackled with solidarity on the half-way. Certainly the ships, which collected and collected the refugees, fly the flag of almost all the countries of the European Union, but then these refugees are dumped on our coasts, particularly in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, where we have a rise in social tension as a result of this excessive influx of refugees and immigrants. In the face of all this, the European Commission has only been able to send us, as far as our economic manoeuvre is concerned, a request for a correction of 0.2 points of GDP. This was the sign of attention to us. We cannot accept this approach, because this small adjustment is also a negative sign that weighs on an economy with a low growth rate and is depressing the national economic situation. In order to justify such an attitude, the European Commission would have invoked the reason for non-compliance with the debt rule. You even allow yourself to fear an infringement procedure. Mr President, I think that all these considerations together with so many others that we would have liked to develop on this occasion - but unfortunately the time is tyrant - will lead us to underline to this Government a series of needs: we ask to actively defend national interests; to strongly promote the necessary synergies in order to reach a common defence when the United States has abandoned the Mediterranean chessboard; to counter the thesis of an Italy in need of derogations because it does not know how to solve its problems, forgetting that it certainly needs Europe, but that it cannot do without our country; to finally join a social Europe, in which there is not only the need for short-term assistance to the weak, but the great objective of economic recovery and development, necessary to guarantee sociality and well-being. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u31	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u32	Mr Gentiloni Silveri, you are right to remind us that we must never forget that the results produced in these sixty years, from the Treaties of Rome to today, first of all the long period of peace between the main European countries, certainly have an important starting point in the Treaties. We must tell ourselves, however, that this is really just a premise, because today we are at a real turning point and I think we have to say things as they are. What we are discussing in Italy and Europe, in fact, is not the future of the European Union, as the rhetoric says, but its deep crisis and the search for a way out, but which has not yet been found. The current crisis did not come because of a cynical and cheating destiny and it does not come from the crisis that exploded in 2008; it does not arise because Eurosceptic or populist forces and movements have emerged out of nowhere, which are a consequence and not the origin of the crisis of the Union, due to short-sighted choices, wrong and dictated by the selfishness of individual countries, as well as the benefits of some social groups and some powers. This truth, Mr President, is now so solar that it says it out loud no longer simply the political left, the one to which I belong, but even the International Monetary Fund, which bullies the policies of rigour that have been raging for too many years as wrong and suicidal. The crisis is the daughter of blind rigorism, of renunciation, aimed at building a democratic Europe, instead preferring that of banks and bureaucracy, and the inability to put in place united policies of reception in the face of a wave of migration caused by war. We must be aware that there are only two alternatives today, as you mentioned in your speech in part: either Europe will be able to dissolve these nodes or it will be strangled, and a threatening and worrying wave will strike the entire continent. I would like to discuss with you and the Government of the recipes that Europe is identifying to deal with the crisis, which to me and to us of the Italian Left seem largely insufficient. Even the formula launched a few days ago, that of multi-speed Europe and the so-called concentric circles, in our opinion, puts in place strong elements of ambiguity and the assurances that this will not create a division between the A and B series countries should at least be deepened more calmly. The way forward, however, should be in the direction of a profound, renewed and radical democratic involvement of the peoples, first of all with regard to the choices that affect the lives of the citizens and that have so far been continuously and consecutively lowered from above. The rigorism was only in a few loose words, but it was not structurally affected; indeed, the structure of that ideology was not affected. How, for example, do we talk about overcoming rigorism, if we do not get back to the parameters seriously or if we continue to maintain a genuine scandal like the fiscal compact in the Constitution? The consequence is that even the few steps taken today are literally under siege. Rigorism has failed, it is not a question of limiting the damage, it is rather a question of overturning an entire economic strategy. Economic and fiscal policies based on the devaluation of labour must be overturned, the dogma that orders to cut public spending more and more and prohibits investment and should be fully rethought, for example, to the long and bad season of privatisations, which also saw our country at the forefront, so to speak, in this error. Austerity cannot be overcome by begging for flexibility or simply repeating the word "growth" as if it were a mantra capable of solving itself in a magic formula. It is precisely the foundations of the single currency that need to be revised, it is the Treaties that need to be changed, it is the parameters that need to be changed. Overcoming rigorism in fact and not just in intentions means implementing an investment policy aimed at boosting employment. We in the Italian Left have been saying this for many years: we need to put our hands on a real European plan for employment, a green new deal that includes the allocation of many billions of euros to invest in rehabilitation and security of the territory, also and especially thanks to the green economy. We would like to reason on all this, we would also very much like to discuss a little more seriously, without Damocles' sword of new racisms on migratory issues, which have also crossed this continent deeply. Unfortunately, the failure of European immigration policy is very clear, and on this too we should really change the way, guaranteeing protection, exactly as the Geneva Convention provides, creating humanitarian corridors, overcoming the Dublin Convention, and putting on the agenda issues that would actually be a turning point. For months every day, a unanimous choir repeats that the European Union must be saved. We agree with this choir, but we also think - and on this our voice is out of line with the choir - that in order to save Europe we must proceed on a path completely different from that which brought it to the edge of the abyss. Today, those who want to save Europe must put their heads to the bottom that this rescue can only take place through a radical and structural change of what has been done in recent years. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u33	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u34	President Gentiloni Silveri, I listened very carefully to you because I expected more specific answers, a determination to take part in the European Council. Here, apart from the celebrations, apart from the high and high quotations, apart from this terror of populism, there is nothing. You didn't talk about anything that's really interesting to our country. You forgot to tell Parliament what you intend to do with Europe about the whole of Central Italy which is in the middle of the road and for which this Government has not yet been able to send the houses. I wish I had heard a projection for the future, because you, consciously responsible for the situation we are in, didn't say anything about the fact that our country would need huge public investment, but these public investments that you promised are based on that increase in VAT for 20 billion that will take place from 1 January 2018. How will you approve the DEF next month? Can we know that or not? But do you really believe that Italians still fall from the clouds thinking that you are making reforms? What reforms, if you are hanged here in Forza Italia and ALA because in the Commissions you cannot work because you do not have the numbers? Here in the Senate, President Gentiloni Silveri, we are not doing anything: we have given the green light to a bill to fight poverty that is nothing and that you are dealing for a universal system, when it is not. To this you have allocated 1.5 billion euros, tidying up the rest of the welfare. Are you kidding me? We would like to know, now, what you intend to say in Europe about the EUR 3,400 million that we have to get out of here a month because you have committed a fake in the budget in the last laws of stability. That's what you did, and then you're gonna make me manfriends on our citizenship income cover when you ate 100 billion in three years of public debt without solving anything! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You, President Gentiloni Silveri, spoke about the growth of our country; last year the forecasts, alone and only taking into account the exogenous factors, led our country to a growth greater than one percent: your action managed to curb the exogenous factors! You are incompetent as well as irresponsible and false! You are in fact revealing each other, serial liars. That's what I'm talking about. President Gentiloni Silveri, I would like, on behalf of my Group and the votes that have brought us here, of over 9 million Italians, punctual answers: will you raise VAT or not? Because you are making it fall back on general taxation, on all citizens, your mistakes: by increasing VAT, you go to bend those who have nothing and are forced to go to shopping anyway. These are the people you're going to bend! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then you are promising - and here you really reach the height of the lie - structural decontribution, especially for the South. But where were you, with the Renzi Government, in which also Gentiloni Silveri was present, when you repealed that rule? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You canceled it for an election tip! You have deleted Law No 407 of 1990, which guaranteed the decontribution of INPS and INAIL charges to all artisan enterprises throughout the country, including 100% in the South and 50% in the other companies. Where were you when you repealed it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And now you want to do the year-end commercial to go to the election! Then, we must tell the Italians that the bill for the fight against poverty is a proxy, that you will play in the last months again, as you have done with the 80 euros. And why don't you put on the poverty fund the 500 million euros that the Italians are giving back to you? Too much public debt? Perhaps for that great reform that has been the protection of savings, President Gentiloni Silveri, for the 20 billion? The 20 billion we gave to the banks is a great reform to protect savings and you have forgotten everything else! Now, these celebrations should be useful to renegotiate our position in Europe, because we are a founding country and despite these incompetent and incompetent governments our small and medium-sized enterprises can always be a flagship. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). What are you talking about? Mr Lezzi (M5S). They can still be a flagship in Europe. So here we must necessarily renegotiate the fiscal compact and not put it in the European Treaties; we must give the various countries and their citizens the opportunity to choose whether to remain in the European Union, whether to remain in the euro. You have to give the choice because you haven't given it and you're still not saying what you're going to do. In fact, President Gentiloni Silveri, you, of the five scenarios, what do you prefer? Did you decide that in some dark room, and we don't know anything about it? And we're gonna get the balance again? That's a rule because you don't even know how to read things. MIRABELLI (PD). I'm glad you came. Mr Lezzi (M5S). This is the enormous and great truth. You don't even read things, because if you promise what you repealed yesterday, it's because you didn't read anything. You're puppets and you're thinking about us, the company party, the Associate House, how much you are in the hands of butterflies, who lie from morning to evening! [[Senator Puppato's comments.]] A little dignity and look the Italians in the face. Where are the investments for industry 4.0? They will start from 2019, but when everything is locked up in the safeguard clause. You're gonna get the money out? Have you spoken to Europe? Have you imagined proposing Eurobonds to Europe to make real investments or are you still connected to Renzi who said that he solved everything and that with the Juncker plan Italy would be divided and we would be the locomotive of Europe? We're the taillight because of you! Taillight! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And with the decontribution you have taken away and that electoral tip, which cost us over 12 billion, you have managed to increase the average unemployment gap between us and the rest of Europe. In 2014, the difference between the figure for our unemployment and the European average was 0.8% and has now reached 1.6%. Go home! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Buemi]] You don't know how to work. Give a chance to honesty, to those who will respond to the citizens, to those who do not fear going to the elections to compete with true consent, with real work and with real commitment! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Resign! AIROLA (M5S). President, that is not possible! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi, please don't interrupt Senator Lezzi. When he asks for the floor and is granted, he can speak. Please, Senator Lezzi, finish. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I would have liked that, at least in this case in the intervention of President Gentiloni Silveri there had been sincerity and intellectual honesty towards us and therefore of the citizens, that the key points of our country had been addressed and not that we were talking only about celebrations and photographs to one, two, three or four. We are not interested in this, we are interested in renegotiating everything in Europe, because this cannot go on. President Gentiloni Silveri, since Padoan has not answered us again, tell us: from here to a month will you increase VAT? Will they make the investments that our country needs? Will the earthquake victims have a home and have their exploits back in place and thriving? Are these things going to be there, yes or no? And be honest, at least you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u35	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Carlo and Nello Rosselli in Aprilia, in the province of Latina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u36	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Gentiloni Silveri, this morning, in his initial report, spoke of the next European Council as a transitional European Council, but he did not fail to mention the difficulties Europe is going through during this period. It has also indicated three possible avenues ahead: an international role for Europe with greater integration of foreign policies; an economic policy of greater growth and development and a little less austerity; the issue of the free movement of people, which is obviously linked to the problem of immigration and integration. However, this morning he introduced an issue in the debate, which I believe is fundamental, which concerns Juncker's White Paper, which was signed on 1 March and proposes five scenarios for Europe. I confess that I found the reading of this document disturbing. In the first scenario Juncker calls "Next": the European Union focuses on the implementation of its positive reform programme; the European Union's 27-year unity is preserved, but it can still be put to the test if there are significant disputes. Then he introduces another scenario, which Juncker calls "Only the Single Market": Europe suffers a very strong backwardness and deals only with the market. The European Union is increasingly focusing on certain fundamental aspects of the single market, but Juncker also introduces a reasoning which states that differences of opinion between states can and must often be resolved bilaterally, on a case-by-case basis: a crazy backwardness of Europe as we have known it to date. Juncker then introduces a third scenario titled "Whoever wants more does more": some Member States aim to do more in common and emerges what he calls a "coalition of willing people" (if I remember correctly it was also called the coalition that attacked Saddam Hussein in Iraq in 2003) that operate in common in specific areas, such as, by chance, defence, internal security and taxation. But the gap between expectations and results - Juncker specifies in the pros and cons and in the annotations that always follows every proposal - begins to close in countries that want more and choose to do more. A somewhat different Europe respects what we used to be. The fourth scenario is "Doing less," in a more efficient way": it seems to be similar to the second one, but it is not just about the market. It is said that it is possible and necessary to focus on a small number of areas and it is likely that more rapid action can be taken - the document always says - on some very selected topics. There is, then, the scenario that we could all theoretically and we would like to hope: Do much more together, which means essentially, in all areas, that cooperation between Member States is pushing to levels that have never been achieved before. Of course, the decision-making process includes a much greater number of areas than we are dealing with now. Now, the problem is: is this a working tool? Have the five scenarios been debated? Will they be the subject of the debate? What will happen to this document in Friday's statement? And this document, the moment it was written, when was it shared? And, when it is presented, how much of this document is part of decisions that have already been taken? I would like to raise the question, Mr President, of making this document congruent with the statements made (and, of course, from those made by Chancellor Merkel) and with the questions we have asked ourselves in recent months. When we talk about multi-speed Europe we mean a euro at different speeds? Is it a Europe with different levels of integration, or is it a Europe of 1994, Kern - Europe (maybe Professor Monti will remember it), which was the hard core (Kern in German means core), a Europe of five? The hard core, by chance, prevented Italy from being there. If we were to predict a euro at different speeds, it seems to me that Mrs Merkel has already clarified this point: she told Draghi, in recent days, that there will be no and there cannot be a series A currency and a series B currency; speed is already different, because some countries are part of the Eurozone and others are not. I do not want there to be, underneath, the reasoning of a Europe at different speeds because there is a narrow core, a historic core, that of 1994. And by chance, that Kern-Europe was invented by Wolfgang Schäeuble, today a very powerful German economic minister, and Karl Lamers, spokesman for the CDU of that time, also spoke about it. Then Prodi refused it, but today Prodi himself says that it is possible to admit and imagine that there can be a Europe at different speeds. Mr President, what did you talk about in Versailles? I try to interpret the effect of that meeting on the basis of an interview that Hollande gave to "La Stampa" the day before yesterday, in which the French Premier says that the Franco-German pact "It is indispensable. If there is no confidence between France and Germany, Europe does not advance. And he adds: But it's not enough. When we come to an agreement with Mrs Merkel, then we have to convince the others. It means, then, that in Versailles there were two Europes: France and Germany and, by chance, they invited - excuse the bad and malicious joke - Spain and Italy: Italy because it will be the venue of the next meeting on March 25 and Spain because if you invite Italy you cannot leave out Spain. I remember then what happened in Bratislava, where something also happened that we were not able to interpret correctly. In Bratislava there was the President of the Council Renzi and a document was signed of which, then, the Italian Prime Minister complained. After the Bratislava Summit, was there not a press conference in which everyone was present? But Renzi wanted to make a conference for his own business, contesting the outcome of Bratislava. Then I ask myself questions and we all have to ask them. However, Germany remains the strongest partner in this Europe; I try to find, as I said before, a correspondence between Juncker's proposal for a White Paper and what is said in the strongest country in this Europe: when Merkel talks about the concept of differentiated cooperation on specific sectors, what exactly do you mean? Is it the Franco-German Europe that Hollande referred to or is it something different? When Merkel says that everything we have built could collapse, or that it must be the Europe of prosperity, we agree. But when, on the other hand, he says that we must move forward, that we cannot stop, that some countries should move forward faster than others, I have the impression that something is not working. And I would not want this White Paper, presented by Juncker, to be anything but a propaedeutic act to a very different Europe than the one we are used to. These are questions, President-in-Office of the Council. I think you will not only be able to imagine a commemoration of the sixty years of Europe on Friday. On Friday you will have to imagine what to celebrate in Rome on 25 March and the Italian Government will have to give guidance on what will happen or what we think should happen, as well as on what exactly the Italian Government's indication and opinion is regarding the issues that I am proposing in this House. Let me turn to another topic: we appreciated Minister Minniti when, in his report to the Commissions, he said something that is not often heard in our country, namely that we must combine the welcome and integration with the feeling of the country. It's not a topic dear to the Left. The feeling of the country is that we cannot accept 181,000 people who arrive on our coasts even in 2017. The feeling of the country is that it is not possible, as Frontex says, that we leave from the coasts of Libya making a phone call no longer at the center of coordination of Rome but directly to the ships of the NGOs that are deployed not to the limits of the territorial waters of Libya but inside the territorial waters: they no longer leave boats, they leave the canotti. The poor who come from the sub-Saharan belt of Africa, now 95% are people who seek in Europe and Italy that vocation and economic freedom that they have not had in their country. The Frontex report says what we don't want to hear: there are ways of contact with smugglers' boats that shouldn't be there. So, combining integration with the feeling of the country means blocking this flow of people from Africa. And I wonder: will this multi-speed Europe be able to tackle this problem? Or shouldn't our country be the one who plays the leading role in solving a problem that cannot be shared by the whole of Europe? In conclusion, Mr President, Italy has a strong responsibility because this is probably no longer the Europe of our founding fathers. It is no longer enough to point the finger at Brussels bureaucracy, because there are often Italian officials among those who draw up directives and regulations in a dull manner. Italy is a founding country of this Europe and is represented at all levels but, in simpler words, the Europe that we often criticize is as if it were a third and unappellable suprastate. So, Mr President, if we want to make one last and perhaps only attempt so that this Union does not fall into a thousand pieces, we ask you to represent Italy as a serious country, able to be in the first level, in the first round, in the first championship (call it what you want) of a differentiated Europe, to give a new imprint to the Union in which the differences between countries are finally put into system and valued and not only used to make speed rankings, to ensure that the common defence policy and the defence of borders are not concepts assessed from the German Government's point of view and that it does not take more than three years to explain in Europe that migration flows are a European theme. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Council of Ministers who I know must go to the House. I have listened and sincerely shared the President-in-Office's report. I have perhaps heard a report different from that which has been heard by others who have participated in the debate: I have not heard a timid report from the next European Council and I have heard three statements that seemed very significant and important to me because they were said by the President of the Council of Ministers - I would like to say with a little pride - of a country that, despite having gone through (and still is going through) an important economic crisis such as that which began in 2008, a global crisis that has weighed particularly heavily on some economies, is still the second European industrial country and is the country with the highest rate of foreign trade in Europe since Germany. We are talking about a great power within what the President-in-Office of the Council rightly said it could be, can and can be the great European power. I didn't hear empty terms behind the three lines that were drawn. Italy respects the rules but wants to change the policies of the European Union: to respect the rules means to give one another a way to be together knowing that one cannot return to the small ancient world of national coins and statesmen, because that is not a romantic world but, as President Napolitano has rightly reminded us, it is that world that is rebuilding its borders through barbed wire, anti-personnel walls and special police bodies; the small ancient world is not a world in which it is beautiful to return, because it is the world of the 1930s and it is that which has introduced Europe to the world war. Italy respects the rules because being with others means respecting the rules, but we ask for different policies. In our motion for a resolution supporting government policy, we call for growth policies, we highlight the need for a European economic policy that favours growth, employment, innovation and competitiveness of the European system, including through economic action based on the issuance of bonds in support of these choices. The second line is that we share security and defence commitments. It's little what? I don't know. I think that perhaps common security and defence is one of the themes on which the European tension of all European countries is awakened; this is because there is the terrorist threat, because there is a great world instability, because, as President Hollande said at the end of the Versailles Summit, there are certainties that are being called into question as we would not have believed could happen. The idea of the rule of law, the idea of solidarity, the idea of openness and peace itself are being called into question. We cannot do that, so we must rethink Europe. Of course, the Europe we saw sixty years ago was rich in values, it came from the world war and it had before it the need to rebuild itself and not to recreate the conditions of conflict between the different countries. Those conditions have changed for many reasons, but certainly the 2008 crisis has been a detonator of the change in the economic conditions of the different states and has increased the internal differential between financially stronger states and countries that had on their shoulders a substantial legacy of public debt. Basic principles seem to be being called into question. Well, we cannot question them, then we need, for example, a common defence policy, and perhaps we could achieve that level of efficiency that is needed in the international coalition, as well as those economies that allow us to invest in our country, moving resources from one sector to the creation of jobs, to areas with greater labour intensity, to sectors that can be made even more competitive. Common immigration policies must approach, as has rightly been said, the need to govern migratory flows and not to bar them, on the basis that we are in a globalised world in many respects, but also on the basis of that feeling of the Italian people who want the government of such processes, but does not require one by one to cleanse the streets of humanity and poverty. 12.05 a.m. (SANGALLI followed). It requires that conditions of dignity be created, which are the premise for real migration flows that we will certainly not stop with walls or barbed wire. The Europe that was conceived was full of values and we would like those values to be reaffirmed at the next European Council, not as values to be celebrated but as objectives to be redefined and conquered. This is what we do with the next European Council, which is a transition for this: because in that Council we will have to see a Europe that perhaps goes at different speeds, as we have seen from the White Paper. However, we must not attest to the minimalist hypothesis, knowing that it will be difficult to obtain the highest hypothesis, but certainly on the assumption that, in a differentiated way, we can guarantee growth, development, fairness and, therefore, dignity to the down great world economic power, which also has 500 million citizens, the largest democracy in the world and the largest social support system in the world. These are the characteristics that made Europe a global landmark: market freedom, democracy and a functioning social state. This is the way we need to remodel and reposition our values. I do not think that, every time, you can go to Europe by banging your fists on the table without ideas or going to talk about yourself and doing the propaganda that very often you hear about yourself. We are a country that can speak clearly in Europe, with its head and not with its fists, and that in Europe can ask for a change of political strategies, just as in our resolution we remind the government we must do: economic and defence political strategies, a common foreign policy; everything that can give Europe those contents that sixty years ago were the basis of the values that the founding countries had put in place. Brexit is an event that accelerates processes; it must make us think. It has been said that American policies had become NATO abandonment policies, while the NATO summit of a few days ago showed that this was not the case at all. We need to be interlocutors of this change of the world and subjects able to direct, such change, not screaming empty sentences but assuming - with the seriousness that it is up to a country like ours - the commitments to respect the rules, to ask for a change of course, to cooperate effectively, to be a country up to a great system like that of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u39	I address the Assembly's greeting to a delegation of the Municipality of Travacò Siccomario, in the province of Pavia, who is following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u40	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2 by Senator Calderoli, No 2 by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra, No 3, Senator Barani and other Senators, No 4, Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 5, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 6, Senator Cioffi and other Senators, No 7 by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u41	Mr President, I will briefly return to the main points raised by the debate which have called for a further statement by the Government. First of all, I start from the intervention of Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, to whom the interventions of Senators Puppato, Fornaro and Sangalli have connected. Certainly our objective is to identify new priorities, to get Europe out of the status quo, from a immobility that we consider very dangerous. The priorities are those that you have taken up again: a union of defence, a social union, inclusive growth and the issue of immigration. I agree with what has been said: the only way out of this impossible debate on sovereignty, the only way to recover real sovereignty, which means having the opportunity to influence the phenomena and the major issues that have been evoked in the debate, is to do more and better at European level. This is the true response of sovereignty to some issues which, being transnational, by nature cannot be addressed and even less can be governed by being anchored in national policies or, even worse, by returning to nationalistic policies. That is why we believe that the issue of enhanced cooperation and Europe at different speeds is the answer to get Europe out of this status quo. It is clear that we must, as President Napolitano said, demonstrate the same sense of urgency and foresight (to use words that are not mine, but are De Gasperi's) that the founding fathers demonstrated in 1957: although we know that there are objectively very different situations, that the state of Europe is very different, that the situation of European political leaders today is very different from that of 1957, we must show Europeans that we have the same sense of urgency and the same sense of foresight. This means doing everything possible quickly at European level to get out of the status quo (urgency) and to have the foresight to identify not only possible and necessary new objectives today, but also a possible method to start concretely achieving those objectives. The objectives are certainly those of a Europe that gives more security, more protection and more opportunities to Europeans. And security and protection are not only the subject of physical security, but above all the issue of the Europe of defence, which President Romani has also raised. These are the steps forward, which we are already taking and which we want to take in a much more concrete way. The President-in-Office of the Council recalled the steps already taken to build a Europe of defence by doing something very normal (I say this before a Parliament that ratified the Lisbon Treaty): applying the Treaties, exploiting the potential offered by the Treaties, using the Treaties that already provide (in fact they provide for it in the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997) the possibility for groups of countries, which have a stronger political will and perhaps a stronger sense of urgency, to move faster towards these new objectives. In addition to the issue of a Europe of defence, there is the theme of a social union, that is, action, including at European level, to promote the economic and social progress of the European Union. These are not my words either: they are the words of the Treaty of Lisbon. And we must work, even at European level, to build a social union. We have a monetary union, we are debating how to strengthen, improve and reform economic union, we are struggling to negotiate on banking union (and our objective is certainly to speed up these negotiations), we want to create a union of the capital market, but, so far, a fundamental word has not been said, that all the interventions have more or less evoked and that is the need to build a social union: the theme of the social dimension of Europe, the theme of a new European social rights pact. These are the objectives that we want to pursue with the declaration of Rome, aware of the two points that have been evoked, the first by President Monti and President Casini and the second by President Paolo Romani. The first point is that this certainly does not mean any discount on what is the European identity, namely the rule of law and fundamental rights. We must do everything we can to ensure full respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights throughout the European Union. On this there are no different speeds, there are no variable geometries, there are no countries that can commit themselves to respecting the rule of law and fundamental rights and countries that can fail to do so. This is a common European heritage, which must be ensured together. This does not mean, however, that there can be no countries that go faster, as has always been the case in the European Union. If we had to wait for everyone, we would not have Schengen; if we had to wait for everyone, we would not have monetary union. It is not - I would like to reiterate - a project similar to the Kern-Europe in Schäuble in 1994, for a very simple reason, which has been mentioned in various speeches, in particular by President Monti. They are cooperations that must always be open to all those who later decide to join and are cooperations that must always be inclusive, that is, the European institutions must always be present in these forms of enhanced cooperation, otherwise we would certainly be at risk of exclusions, otherwise we would certainly be at risk of a method totally left to governments, which would become of a complexity difficult to govern. This is the way in which we are working, possibly also to have - we hope - the commitment to go in this direction with the Rome Declaration. Senator Mario Mauro mentioned another aspect on which we are working and which I share: a European plan for defence research. The senator knows that there is a proposal from the Commission, which we have supported, which goes in this direction and the work on the own resources made by the group chaired by Mario Monti. We have examined with great interest the proposals of the working group and I say here that in April we will present an initial Italian position on how we see the reform of the European budget. I am already saying that for us the European budget must be reformed by thinking about the European public goods on which we agree that there should be a European policy. Are external borders a European public good or not? A greater commitment to investment and growth is or is not a European public good? Is a more effective defence industry policy a European public good or not? If these are European public goods, if we believe that these are things to be ensured together with Europeans, then we must reform the budget and make the resources of the European budget available to achieve these objectives. That's the way we're gonna proceed. We have encountered difficulties in giving courage, ambition and coherence to the European Union in the mid-term review of the budget, on which Italy removed the reserve yesterday, because we have achieved increases in youth unemployment, immigration and security. However, I would like to say in this House that we have touched myopia and the lack of courage and awareness with our hands and that there are issues on which it is impossible to make a difference at European level without putting adequate resources. But this does not discourage us, but it pushes us to be even more determined to promote actions, I hope together with many governments, if they will find courage, and certainly with the European Parliament, which has accompanied Italy in this half-way negotiation with great force. I hope that we will be aware that there is no point in setting new political objectives at each meeting of the European Council if, then, when we make new resources available for those political objectives, everyone freezes. It is clear that this is one of the causes that makes Europe particularly unpopular and disappointing for citizens. President Casini is certainly right about this. Europeans are increasingly sceptical about this Europe, but they are increasingly aware that there are policies that only Europe can ensure. What we have to do is reform the European Union to make it able to give those answers that citizens expect on the issues of immigration and terrorism, just to mention some of the issues you have mentioned. Senator De Petris talked about Brexit. I believe that those who say that nothing has happened should take into account the fact that so far the United Kingdom has been a member of the European Union and that it will continue to be so until 2019. The legal and political uncertainty in which the United Kingdom finds itself today is not at all enviable and I believe that in order to assess the effects of Brexit we must wait for the United Kingdom to come out of the European Union. As I have already said, I think we must work with a lot of friendship with the British. I believe that we are faced with a process that will have to be to limit the damage. We must avoid the possible damage caused by the exit of the United Kingdom, which risks losing much more than the European Union is likely to lose. I'll move on to the last point. Senator Amoruso mentioned the need to continue the reform programme. President Gentiloni Silveri recalled the commitment to a new push for a new phase of reforms that we will indicate in the national reform programme on which the Government is working and which it will present in April. Of course, that is the best answer for Italy to be able to play its role in European fora, as has rightly been mentioned. If the President agrees, I give the floor to Mr Della Vedova to give his opinion on motion for a resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u42	The Government's opinion is in favour of Senator Calderoli's motion for a resolution No 1, provided that the following rewording of the commitment is accepted:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u43	Undersecretary Gozi continues to express his views on the other motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u44	Mr President, as regards motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra, the opinion is in favour. On motion for a resolution No 3, at the first signature of Senator Barani, the opinion is in favour, provided that the first commitment of the provisions is made, while the opinion on the other commitments is in favour. I also propose a rewording of motion for a resolution No 4, at the first signature of Senator Centinario. In particular, I would ask that the premises, the first and the second commitment, be expunged, while I agree with the third, fourth and fifth commitments. I propose that the sixth and seventh commitments be removed and that the eighth commitment be amended, replacing the words 'to require a policy for the containment of migratory flows within Europe', by the following: 'to demand a policy for the governance of migratory flows within Europe', and eliminating the words 'to be', until the end of the commitment itself. Finally, I propose to delete the first commitment on the last page and add to the next commitment... Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Don't worry about explaining them again, I won't accept them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Secretary must say what his opinion is. Senator Centinario, have the government representative conclude. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I put my proposal to the record and Senator Centinario will be free to refuse it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We follow the procedure, Senator Centinario. Undersecretary Gozi, I invite you to continue. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. As I said, Mr President, in the next commitment I propose to add the following words: "by ensuring full respect for fundamental rights and international obligations." Finally, I welcome the subsequent commitments. As far as Resolution No 5 is concerned, first signed by Senator De Petris, I propose to remove the premises and the first two commitments. I propose, then, to the third commitment, where it is said: "Propose a Green New Deal" to add the words: "Reaffirming the need for the sixth commitment, the last content on page 5, I propose to replace the words: "to agree with the bodies of the European Union" with the words: "to propose again in the European fora" with reference to the renegotiation of the so-called golden rule." I propose that the next commitment concerning TTIP be made. As far as the commitments relating to migration are concerned, I propose that the second and fifth commitments be removed. As far as commitments relating to external security and defence are concerned, I propose that the second commitment be removed and, in the fifth, after the words: To propose concrete initiatives to curb the flow of foreign fighters, I propose to replace the words: "especially by putting pressure on Turkey" with the following: "especially by intensifying dialogue with Turkey" and "experiencing the next part." In the third commitment, dedicated to Syria, I propose to remove the last part from the words "to which they must be invited" until the end of the commitment. Therefore, if the rewordings are accepted, the Government is in favour of the new text so reworded. I am against the motion for a resolution No 6, which was first signed by Senator Cioffi. As regards motion for a resolution No 7, first signed by Senator Paolo Romani, I welcome the premises and propose some rewording of the provisions. As far as the European Union's foreign policy is concerned, under the second commitment, I propose that we stop with the words: 'of the European Union', thus eliminating the words from: 'with reference' to the words 'Serbia'. I propose that the fifth commitment be reworded as follows: It shall assess all possibilities in the European Council, with regard to the process of stabilisation of relations between the Russian Federation and the European Union, to eliminate economic sanctions against the Russian Federation as soon as the conditions are met. As far as the sixth commitment is concerned, I would ask you to conclude with the words 'on the part of the United Nations', thus expressing the last part. As regards the ninth commitment, we propose at the beginning to replace the word "prepare" with "evaluate" the possibility of adopting and adding the word "irregular" after "immigrant" and, after the word "economic" we propose to add: "in full respect of fundamental rights and international obligations." To the tenth commitment we propose to replace the word "promote" with the following: "to evaluate the possibility of promoting" and to add, after the word "migration" to the word "irregular" to the word "irregular"; in the twelfth commitment, after the word "agreements" we propose to add the word "European" and in the fourteenth commitment, we propose to insert at the beginning the following words: "to continue in the commitment to "promote," and then continue with the original text. Finally, we propose that the 17th commitment be eliminated. If these rewordings are accepted, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u45	Senator Calderoli's motion for a resolution No 1 has been reworded, which Senator Calderoli accepts. The opinion on motion for a resolution No 2 is in favour. On motion for a resolution No 3 the Government's opinion is in favour, provided that the proposed rewording is accepted. On the other hand, on motion for a resolution No 4, on which there were numerous comments, Senator Centinario confirms that he does not accept the rewordings. Therefore, the resolution remains as it was, with the Government's opinion against it. On motion for a resolution No 5, the numerous rewordings are not accepted by the Group and therefore the opinion remains the opposite. The opinion on motion for a resolution No 6 is opposed. On motion for a resolution No 7 there have been some rewordings. Do the presenters accept them?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u46	Mr President, we reserve the right to express our views on this in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u47	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u50	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, what we wanted to say was that we expressed in the course of the debate. The position of the League Group is very clear on what had to be said: it was necessary to bring the demands of Italians to European level. There were a number of proposals in our resolution, Mr President. To see, for the umpteenth time, a constructive proposal that tried to go in the direction indicated by the majority leads us to say 'do what you want'. We are not of the idea that we should go to Europe to say - as I have heard from some colleagues - that everything is fine in Italy, that everything is perfect, that there are no problems and maybe paint Italy as the country of the Bengodi to European colleagues. This was done by Premier Renzi and the results are before everyone's eyes. As far as immigration is concerned, even in this case it has been months, if not years, that we are giving recipes. The answer has always been: you of the League are racists. Europe says the same things that the League has said and is saying, as I told you before: then, for transitive property, if the League is racist and says the same things as Europe, your Europe is also racist. What you have told us and what you are telling us in the talk shows then go back to the gentlemen of the European Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u53	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, first of all, I am voting in favour of Group 1 - Democratic and progressive movement to motion for resolution No 2, signed by Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and our leader, Maria Cecilia Guerra, because it takes back to the bottom the axes of a European Union that starts again and accepts the challenges of contemporary life. What we are asking for - and we are strongly convinced of this - is a Europe that starts from growth, employment, the issues of fairness, which include a continental fight against tax evasion and avoidance, and finally from the issues of solidarity. What we have before us is an impervious way, full of pitfalls and difficulties, it would be wrong not to admit it; As the history of the twentieth century teaches us, however, the main road is always preferable to nationalist shortcuts, which not only do not solve problems, but make them dangerously worse. In order to combat the demon of the National populisms today we need the courage and determination to follow the main path of a social and solidarity Europe: on this ground the Government will always find us ready and available.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u56	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, having already spoken in general debate, I shall confine myself to very few comments. The first takes up the statement just made public by the Council of Europe - therefore by a non-Community institution, but which has always been considered a bulwark for the defence of migrants' rights - which underlines that Italy must reform the way they receive them, from repatriations to expulsions, otherwise - I quote - it asks to encourage the influx of an increasing number of irregular economic migrants by sea from North Africa. This dossier of the Council of Europe, which has been developed by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Migration and Refugees Tomáš Boček, could be a useful tool, which could encourage a frank discussion in the Council building tomorrow with European partners, so that Italy can be made stronger and more capable of achieving the objectives which the Council of Europe also considers to be a priority. Very often in the debate we have mentioned the issue of creeping sovereignism, which would call into question the substance of the political project we call a united Europe. In this sense, I would simply like to stress that one problem is linked to the objective deficit of democracy in the European decision-making process: solving it - that is, addressing the issue of the deficit of democracy in the European decision-making process - would help to resolve the issues of sovereignism in European policy much more than opening up and nourishing controversy of any kind. It is even more true that I hope that the willingness shown by the Government in relation to the comments I made in the first part of my speech will then be reflected in the statements that will be made during the Council and, if possible, also within the conclusions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u57	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Cavour" of Marcianise, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u60	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, a couple of days ago, Beppe Grillo wrote on his blog that Italy is a terminally ill person. There have been general indignation and dismay. As far as we're concerned, we're not surprised. The elegance of language is like the courage of Don Abbondio: certain qualities are or do not exist. Anyway, they don't make it up. So let's forget about the tones of the continuum. They cover something deeper: the inability to deal with real problems and try to identify possible solutions. The Italian evils are undoubtedly ancient, but the worsening of the current crisis is nothing more than the reflection, the point of fall of a larger crisis, that of the whole Eurozone and therefore of the European Union itself. I could mention a lot of things in this regard, but I shall confine myself to highlighting only one fact, the symbolic value of which is, however, prevalent, also because the European Commission's proposal for an infringement procedure for excessive debt could be built on this profound alteration in the coming days. Italian public debt has increased by 32.5 percent since 2007, an increase that is impressive if isolated from a more general context; however, in the eurozone the average increase was 25.4%. In France, only to mention another sick person - we would not know whether terminal or not - the leap was 31.8%. The difference of a few decimals does not justify, therefore, such an alarming diagnosis. More than a single disease we should think of an epidemic and epidemics, as is known, always have a common cause and it has been represented by austerity policies that have been pursued with a constancy and determination worthy of better cause. They have, in fact, produced a strong compression of the development capacities of each country, without helping to reduce the financial burden that we are placing on the new generations. Certainly we cannot continue on this path: it is clear that, at this stage, there would be no possibility, despite the efforts of Mario Draghi, to guarantee the holding of the single currency. The continued growth of debt could only correspond to its failure. It would therefore open a convulsive and unpredictable phase, while on the borders of Europe there are many unknowns: the role of Putin's Russia, the relative disengagement announced by the new American Administration, Erdogan's surges, without forgetting the theatre of war, so close to us, represented by the explosive situation of the Mediterranean with the dramatic flow of immigrants that it determines. A realistic assessment of the situation should recommend caution to those Italian political forces who speak so lightly about Italy's exit from the euro. I would like to remind them that this hypothesis is not feasible. We do not get out of the euro: if anything, under Article 50 of the Treaty, we can get out of the European Union. If this last alternative does not exist, then it is to a different Europe that we must look at, engaging in a battle that we have seen little so far. Certainly the voice has risen, to the limit of the diplomatic incident, it has managed to impose on the political agenda the issue of immigration, but the results have been poor, the indifference has increased. What is certain is that the problems have not only not been solved, but have been aggravated by our country. Therefore, we need a blow of the kidney in Italian foreign policy and we need to use all the diplomatic force we are capable of, move quickly from the simple grapple to convincing actions, using all the necessary tools. We haven't seen this yet. Then, Mr President-in-Office, show the country what has not yet been done. Italy may not be a great power, but it still has its own weight to assert in that game of mirrors that is the great international arena. Do so, Mr President, as you said here today. We will remain vigilant and attentive. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u63	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE shares the President of the Council's communications and the strategic vision of a Europe with different levels of integration. The fundamental problem is not only the different levels of cooperation and integration of the Member States, but also the lack of willingness to cooperate in a dimension of solidarity. The European Union for many countries has become a restaurant where you choose à la carte, in the sense that the things that are convenient are taken and consumed willingly, but when it comes to settling even a small account someone tries to get away from the agreed commitments. One-way solidarity does not work. So we certainly can't go on. The new course inaugurated by the advent of the Trump government can be a chance for Europe to finally become a more credible subject on the international and global stage, which is not conceivable without a new common security and defence policy. These are the specific areas within which more needs to be done and with increasing acceleration. The point is: who understands and is able to do more? Who really believes that European integration is our prospect for the future? What is the hard core of willing countries from which to start? The White Paper presented by the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, can be seen as a positive political provocation. The most important thing is that we be clear and that we finally decide. We don't have time to waste anymore. The citizens demand that politics finally point the way. We therefore welcome the statements by the President-in-Office of the Council on Europe, but not only, we also agree with the announcement that we want to continue the necessary reforms until the end of the legislative term, because the country - at this difficult stage - now more than ever needs seriousness and responsibility. Therefore, the Group for the Autonomies, also for the reasons authoritatively expressed by President Napolitano in his speech, fully agrees with the guidelines outlined by President Gentiloni Silveri. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u66	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, having already spoken in general debate, I only take the floor to say that we will vote in favour of our resolution and, as an Italian Left, we will vote against the majority resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u69	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, listening to the speeches that have been made in this House, it seems to me that there is a time lag. I don't think it's been 60 years. When it comes to a Europe of the future, a Europe of the peoples, it really seems that they have not passed. Sixty years ago, people had a positive feeling about what was a European community. The word "union" is a word quite different from the word "community." So there is also a semantics problem. We should understand what has happened over the past sixty years and why citizens today basically feel Europe as something so far away, so different from that community that it was supposed to be. The President of the Council quoted Pope Francis and, using his words, said: What has happened to you, a humanistic Europe, a champion of human rights, democracy and freedom? These are the words of the Pope. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must say that many things have happened, but it has basically happened that the word democracy has been emptied. The real power, as Senator Monti said, is in the Council, I would also add to the Commission, and therefore the citizens do not have the power. This means emptying the word "democracy" mentioned by the Pope and President Monti. It has happened that the rights of men have been bent on an economic union without social protection. Therefore the word "right" has also been emptied. That is what has happened over the past sixty years; we have not given citizens the rights. Italy could have responded to this demand for rights with citizenship income, as has been done in most other European countries. Instead the Italians have not been defended and therefore Italy is once again backward. It is even back in Europe, that Europe of which it says it wants to be part of the elite group. In fact, with the stability law that we have recently discussed, EUR 211 million has been taken from the Social Policy Fund and EUR 50 million from the Non-self-sufficiency Fund. The lack of a citizenship income, which is universal, has limitated the word "freedom". A free citizen - as we have already said - is not enslaved to political power, so if you have not done so far, you will never do so, because a free citizen is not sold. Therefore, when you make these statements you contradict the words you use and, once again, the words do not correspond to the actual facts. So we don't believe in just one of your statements. It's about growth, but what do we want to do? What did we do? We have introduced a balanced budget into the Constitution. We want to turn fiscal compact into a piece that enters the Treaties and institutionalize it. The risk - you say - is that of surrendering the European Union to nationalism and xenophobia. We have never been anti-European or falsely nationalist: it is this Europe and what has become that we do not like and the prospect you want to give us is not at all consistent with what Europe should be and that Europe is no longer. Now we want to go to shelter, but where do we want to go? States, ladies and gentlemen, are not companies and we hope that they will never become companies, but in your conception States are companies and have another role, another grieved one: they must do different things. Speak of security and say that we must build European defence, speak of sixty years of guarantee of peace in this Europe: it is an old and tired rhetoric. There is no more of this sad rhetoric. Europe has been at peace - you all know that - because peace has been imposed on Europe; and now we want to make European defence but we retain the ambiguity of NATO membership. What is your answer? We want to be in NATO, we want to do European defence and we want to talk about taxation at EU level to do what? To do European defense? One more time? What should be done, if we really want to do something, would be to charge those who do not pay, that is, the big financial groups. We should charge the financial groups and the industry that pollutes and give that money to the citizens, not to others and not to the defence. It means giving money to those who need it, otherwise Europe is completely disconnected from the people that Europe should theoretically represent, but it does not. Once again there is inconsistency between politics and actions, between what you say you do and what you really do. This powerful disconnect between what you say and what you do is absolutely unbearable and is no longer admissible. For these reasons we cannot support the proposals put forward by the Government simply because they are not real. It is simply sad what you want to do, because you have forgotten that you are people and that you have to answer to people. If this is your action, then we can only oppose your thinking, because there is only one way to really act: to ensure that citizens are the engine of Europe and not the finance, banks and energy-intensive industries that pollute. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u72	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the concept represented by the Forza Italia Group has been expressed in a very commendable way by our Parent Company in the presence of the President of the Council of Ministers, as well as our wishes, our guidelines and our criticisms of the continuation of the European Union. It is certainly an important event that will see the meeting of the European Prime Ministers on 9 and 10 March 2017 and we hope that the requests made by our political group in motion for resolution No 7 will also be accepted and taken forward. I would like to begin by welcoming the request for reformulation, made by Mr Gozi, on the motion for a resolution, for which we will naturally spend our time. In two-speed Europe there are problems that we have listed. Of course we would not want what we have seen in our country to happen, with a two-speed Italy, so there is a part, the one that goes faster, that will increase its speed and a part, the slowest one, that will reduce it. At this time of integration of the European Union, which many other nations, as well as our country, would like, we hope to take this into account: do not favour those who grow more, because integrating means ensuring that development is harmonious and not just part of Europe. Of course, it is up to the President of the Council to represent the position of Italy, one of the founding countries, which is said to be the third economy in Europe. With this in mind, we believe that the President can best represent the needs, beyond the content of other motions for resolutions that have been tabled. We will strongly support ours and consider, on a case-by-case basis, what to do about the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u75	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Council and the members of the Government. I believe that President Gentiloni Silveri's speech has been widely appreciated and acceptable for what he has said. We are on the eve of the celebrations for the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome. We have all recognised that this is a moment of crisis and, like any moment of crisis, can also represent an opportunity. I share the comments of those who have recalled the importance of rediscovering today the pride of being European. The European Union, I remember, won the Nobel Peace Prize a few years ago. Jeremy Rifkin added it as a political example to imitate for other political realities, such as the United States. I think that we should not just remember Europe as a factor of peace. Of course, this was also the case and all the situations of conflict and war around the European Union bear witness to this: Ukraine, Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Libya. Wherever we look we find realities of conflict, war and suffering. But the European Union is more than that: it was the idea, the dream of an open, tolerant, plural, secular, multicultural, multireligious society. I would like to read briefly Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty on European Union: The Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. These values are common to the Member States in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. The aim of the Union is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples. The Union offers its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, in which the free movement of persons is ensured together with appropriate measures regarding external border controls, asylum, immigration, crime prevention and the fight against crime. These are the values that, through the Union, we European citizens are trying to achieve; we must not be ashamed of them, but we must call ourselves to them at this time of difficulty and crisis. If we return to these values, the European Union will regain momentum; if the Union remains locked up in a minimalist, aseptic, bureaucratic vision, we will not have a great future. It is true that people today are tired of a European Union of this kind because it is a Union in which they cannot be recognized. It is paradoxical, Mr President, that it is precisely the centre-right forces that have supported the committees that have carried out the political tasks for various legislatures - I remember the current legislature during the Barroso Commission and also during the Juncker Commission - that today they are the most critical of the European Union. It is they who have led the European Union in this direction and today complain about it. That sounds a little paradoxical. It is also true, however, that today these values are questioned by those who build walls, by those who stretch the barbed wire. Personally I can only share the dismay expressed by President Napolitano for the words we heard last night, for the images we saw and for what today may seem easy to say and that once we would even be ashamed to think, not just to say out loud. There are also some of these politicians among us who in some foreign countries promote values which, in my opinion, are contrary to the European Union and which today too have expressed criticisms often based on a rather moralistic vision. I refer, for example, to the expressions used by Senator Centinario who stigmatized - with the grace and elegance that always distinguishes his interventions - the fact that there are some politicians who steal the salary. I wonder who he was referring to at the moment, because we also have a number of members of his party who are known to be poor attenders of Parliament's classrooms. I wonder if being a permanent absenteeist in the European Parliament makes them part of the criticism expressed by Senator Centinario. I also recall the representatives of other political forces who normally call for honesty and sobriety, and then it turns out that they have favoured, with European contributions, their relatives, boyfriends and caregivers, which certainly does not contribute to the credibility of the institutions, nor of the European Parliament, and makes it clear that there is a double morality, a certain hypocrisy behind this kind of criticism. Mr President, I come to the conclusion quickly because the real political issue today is the reform proposals that are being presented at European level to relaunch the Union's action. It seems to me that there are two basically. Chancellor Angela Merkel proposed to the Malta informal Council a two-speed or multi-speed Europe. In fact, the European Union is already moving at different speeds today. Then there are President Juncker's proposals in the White Paper, which sets out five scenarios. In my opinion, the truthful ones are only scenario 3, that is, the one that allows those who want to advance, those who want to do more, to do more, and scenario 4 that allows to do less but more efficiently. We certainly cannot remain as we are today because this situation leads to an ever greater detachment from the citizens. We must therefore move forward towards a turning point. In any case, I believe that the strategic priorities set out in the Commission's programme presented in September will be to double the duration and financial capacity of the European Fund for Strategic Investments, namely the EFSI, which, according to Juncker's plan, would generate 500 billion, and to replicate the EFSI's experience in international cooperation through a European plan for external investment. This would be very important because it would be the real answer to the challenges of immigration: investing in African countries, enabling them to generate an income that allows living levels that prevent migration, at least in the so high numbers we have today, and to strengthen the circular economy package and proposals for regulation and mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. All proposals also aimed at giving greater flexibility to our European institutions. With these indications I declare the PD Group's vote in favour of the resolution tabled by Senator Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u76	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6 tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous electronic ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u79	PHASE (PD). Mr President, at the end of last week there was yet another fatal accident at work at the Fincantieri in Monfalcone in a construction site for the construction of the new ship painting sheds. Vittima is a forty-year-old Bosnian construction worker, Sinisa Brankovic, who was working on a scaffolding in the attic area of a hangar under construction, when it seems he did not notice an area without cover. The dynamics of the accident are being screened by the investigators: it plunged into the void from a height of more than 20 meters. Supervisor of a specialized company, he had 20 years of experience at his disposal. The death of the worker, a competent person, appreciated and, among other things, an expert on safety issues, caused a general dismay on the site. Immediate the spontaneous strike of the workers of the Fincantieri, who have wanted to give a strong signal, as have reported both the secretary FIM-CISL of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Giampiero Turus, and the union representatives of the CGIL, CISL and provincial metal mechanics UIL. This is the first time that the workers of the contractors respond with such an impressive demonstration. The Fincantieri has started its own checks, which will take place parallel to the ongoing investigations by the judicial police and the judiciary, to which Fincantieri offers the utmost collaboration. Of course, a serious reflection on safety at work is required; the topic of death at work is a leitmotiv in the daily news, and the fact that accidents are being reduced cannot be a consolation. Companies, trade unions and the world of training must keep the threshold of attention and commitment high, not only in the training phase, but above all in the rigorous control phase. On Monday I met the trade union organizations CGIL, CISL and UIL, represented by the general secretary of the CGIL Casotto and the provincial secretaries Gioacchino Salvatore and Claudio Cinti, for an analysis on the topic of safety not only in relation to death at the work of the young Bosnian, but in perspective. The trade unionists have asked loudly for compliance with Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 on security, but they have above all demanded the implementation, also at local level, of the protocol of national legality of the Fincantieri. If it is a great result of this Government - it must be said - the recent subscription of the protocol on security, signed between the minister Minniti, the president of Fincantieri Massolo and the managing director of the society Bono, a fundamental goal for the control of the contracts and subcontractings at all the centers of the Fincantieri group, the general protocol must be declined in all the territories in which the establishments are present. An important point is that of controls; they must cover the actual hours worked, so that, especially in the vicinity of the ship's delivery, the hourly limits provided for as a consequence of this are not exceeded: the exponential increase in the risk of accidents. It must not happen that compliance with the strict delivery times of ships, imposed by orders, involves an overload of work and the lack of protection of safety. Other problems open up, that of the health of the workers of the companies of the induced. We are here to place them, but above all to solve them quickly and effectively. The most heartfelt condolences, certainly from all of us, to the families of the young Sinisa Brankovich and to all the workers his friends and admirers. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u82	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking to continue the relay, which started a few days ago, which involved all the senators of my Group of the Italian Left. I agree with their voices, with what they have said at the last sessions of this Senate Assembly, that is, to ask the Government - and we do so chorically and not only in Parliament, of course, but also in our daily political activity - to overcome the serious limit that has marked its political initiative of these weeks, namely the failure to set a date for the conduct of the social referendums promoted by the CGIL. You will understand the importance of this question as well as how hypocritical it is by a country that, even in parliamentary debates, recognizes that there is a gigantic knot that today is called a social issue, a job issue. A short time ago we held a debate on Europe in which, albeit with different tones and arguments, we all insisted on the need to put the subject back, in particular in a country like ours, the centrality of recovery, work, economy and development as the only condition to emerge from the crisis. Well, as we can see, however, in the concrete acts and in the practical things with which we are then measured, this somewhat hypocritical debate does not follow the facts, as it should be. We ask for one very simple thing: the fixing of the date of the social referendums; we consider this an act due to the country and its workers. On the contrary, on a subject like this we really measure a sidereal distance between what are the declared intentions and the concrete facts. We believe that this referendum should be held and that this referendum cannot be held hostage and that the Italian people should be deprived of the opportunity to vote and to speak on what is an unbearable democratic vulnus from our point of view; all this is a due act. We ask for it and we won't stop. This parliamentary relay will continue, of course for what it is worth, even in future days and will not stop until the government has set a date. Really you do not think you can remedy this need, perhaps with some trick under the table, with some decree of the last hour or with some argumentuccio, that it serves to think to solve the problem, but that it would obviously only accentuate it, if it deprived the Italian people of the sacrosanct freedom and the sacrosanct right to be able to express itself on this subject. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-779.ana.u83	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.12 a.m.
