ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, before I asked for the vote on the Minutes, I would like to thank you because today you have made me rejuvenate for forty years - of which I am very grateful - because when you summoned me for the very direct trial that has been done today, it seemed to me that I had returned to when I went to middle school, when I was regularly summoned by the principal for some marachella that I had arranged to be tried, even in that case, very directly. I want to tell you that, however, I would have liked at least one guarantee notice, also in order to be able to appoint - as I have done - my colleague Nitto Palma to defend myself properly (because I am certainly not adequate). I would therefore ask you to vote on the Minutes after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u5	Senator Crosio, I would like to point out that it was not a summons. It was a request, as required by the Rules of Procedure, to be able to provide its own justifications and observations. Therefore, the request is already optional and since someone has made it, I could not fail to submit the matter. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the examination of Article 36 on the provisions for the financial cover of the draft law began. Following a number of comments made during the debate on the financial coverage of Article 32, which has already been examined recently, the examination has been suspended in order to enable the Budgetary Commission to meet in order to carry out the necessary in-depth discussions. At this meeting, on the basis of the clarifications provided by the Government, it emerged the need for a proposal for coordination on which the technical report of the General Accounting of the State was requested. I therefore ask the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Tonini, to report on the Commission's determinations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u9	Mr President, the Budget Committee met and adopted by a majority an opinion calling for the rewording of paragraph 4 of Article 32 as I anticipated this morning, which I believe is in the Minutes. If colleagues so wish, I can read the following text again: The delegation referred to in this Article shall be implemented within the limit of EUR 7 million for each of the years 2018 and 2019 and within the limit of EUR 6 million for the year 2020. The relevant burden is borne by the Social Fund for Employment and Training referred to in Article 18 (1) (a) of Decree-Law No 185 of 29 November 2008, converted, with amendments, by Law No 2 of 28 January 2009. On this proposal for rewording, we asked for the opinion of the Accounting and the General Accounting Officer of the State communicated, with a signed note, that: (...) the amendment to the measure indicated in question, received by the short way, by which it is intended to replace Article 32, paragraph 4, relating to the financial coverage of the burden arising from the implementation of the delegation provided for in the aforementioned article. In confirming the availability of resources from the Employment Fund, it agrees with the considerations made in this regard by the Budget Commission, considering the amendment correctly worded. For the rest, of course, it is the responsibility of others and not of the Budget Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of what you have told us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u12	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, in my opinion we have established a very dangerous principle, namely that this House is waterproof to what is happening outside. I understand that this principle cannot be called into question, but in any case I believe it is right for everyone to know that, in the interruption of our work, there has been a statement by the first President of the Court of Cassation. [[Comments from PD and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u13	Please, let's not interrupt who's talking. Please, Senator Quagliariello, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u14	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). He said that he fully agrees with the critical remarks that have been made by others and in particular by the president of the Anac Canton. I understand that this is annoying and I also know that in other times - I say this to my friends and companions on the left - there were those who said that intellectuals should not be locked in ivory towers and I think he was a gentleman named Palmiro Togliatti. I wouldn't want us to consider ourselves monads today without doors and windows. In fact, I believe that such a unanimous stance on the part, among other things, of people who have institutional roles, on a law provision has never been there. I realize that this will not change the intentions of the Senate, but I think it is right that someone in this House should say so. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u16	You have the floor, but what are you going to do about it? FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is What order of business? We are in the process of voting on Amendment No 36.200. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, Senator Tonini has read the minutes of the Commission's proceedings. He has now concluded, moreover, by telling us that the General Accounting Office of the State has reached an opinion in accordance with the rewording of the article which provided for the allocation of the fund. It was considered that this, being a necessary amendment, did not require the fixing of a deadline for submission of sub-amendments. I wonder and ask you, however, Mr President, about that forecast of basic allocation for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, which, moreover, varies (seven million, seven million and six million euros), if I thought I wanted to change its distribution differently from the three years, as I could do if not with a sub-amendment. I don't know what's stopping me? I am probably wrong, but I think it is correct that I should be given the opportunity to say, for example, that 10 million is allocated for 2018 and that the difference is divided between the other two years. I do not understand why I am prevented from doing this and why the deadline for submitting amendments to this rewording of the rule that we are debating should be considered inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u19	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I understand correctly, we have an amendment to Rule 36, tabled by the rapporteurs or, as a matter of necessity, by the President of the Budget Commission, and then a proposal for formal coordination concerning Article 32. As far as the proposal for formal coordination is concerned, it clearly refers to Rule 32, which has already been voted on by this House. Therefore, the problem is whether or not it is a genuine formal coordination, or whether it is an abnormal change in the text in relation to the rules governing the legislative procedure. If I understand correctly, President Tonini proposes a formal coordination whereby the sum of EUR 20 million, originally allocated in Article 32, is divided into EUR 7 million, EUR 7 million and EUR 6 million in the three-year period. Personally, Mr President, I believe that this cannot be considered a formal coordination because, for example, there could be some idea of dividing the sum of 20 million in different terms over the three years, for example, because of the expenditure forecasts that can be made for the first, second and third years (for example, by dividing the sum into EUR 5 million, EUR 5 million and EUR 10 million). In other words, there might be the idea of three-parting the sum in very different terms from those indicated by President Tonini. In conclusion, I think it is abnormal to consider formal coordination as proposed by President Tonini. Consequently, if this were to happen, there would be a violation of the rules of the legislative procedure. Therefore, I believe that the proposal for formal coordination cannot be accepted because it falls outside the limits set by the Senate's Rules of Procedure for formal coordination and that, consequently, the path to be taken must necessarily be another one. Mr President, I would like to add another point. In the Commission we posed this problem, arguing that the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission could not be met by formal coordination and presenting a specific question of constitutionality. Moreover, Mr President, that formal coordination was wrong, as evidenced by the fact that today we are being proposed a corrective amendment to that formal coordination of Article 36 and a new proposal for formal coordination of Article 32. Furthermore, Mr President, neither can the proposal put forward by Senator Tonini be regarded as formal coordination, which she herself felt she had to invite the rapporteurs to amend the proposal for formal coordination of Article 36. Mr President, I then believe that we were right in the Commission and in the presentation of the question of constitutionality. In fact, if there is a need for an amendment for what has been considered formal coordination, then - obviously - it was not, as we have said. Similarly, because of the rapporteur's presentation of the amendment to Article 36, the amendment proposed by Senator Tonini cannot be regarded as formal coordination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u20	Perhaps there is a need for clarification: Article 36 has not yet been voted on, while Article 32 has been voted on; since it has been voted on, no other form is possible, except that of coordination. Of course, when we address the issue of the coordination proposal, these issues will also be addressed and the House will decide accordingly. Amendment 36,200 can be voted on, then the article will be voted on, and then these issues will be raised again at the time of the coordination proposals. I think the procedure is clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u23	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think that we are slowly coming to a text in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure - also thanks to its conduct and the work done in the Budget Commission. In the end, I'll tell you what I'm going for and let myself say what I think. It seems to me that the way in which the amendment is based cannot be missed. And here is a question of the Budget Commission that I will say, because if the General Accountant of the State tried a little bit more and did not talk about an amendment, it would make the work easier for us; but I overcome this formal fact, imagining that the Accountant deals with accounting and not with Italian, so that's okay. So, as I said, the road to the amendment seems quite frankly unavoidable. It seems difficult for me to go along the path of coordination. The President of the Budget Commission, as usual, has been precise: this is a rewording of Article 32; in view of the fact that this has already been voted on, a rewording seems difficult to suggest to me. Otherwise, Mr President, we could enter and say anything else through this surreptitious road. What I am about to say and what I think is that, as has happened before, we have only one way of not committing any violation, I say it in a collaborative spirit: except for the vote on Rule 36, when we are discussing Rule 32 and this amendment, we can only leave it as it was voted and have an agenda adopted by the rapporteurs and the President of the Budget Commission, who says exactly what has been said, namely that the article needs to be reworded in that way. The President of the Budget Commission has been clear: because that is a condition for us, we write it down. Once the law has been passed, knowing that there is an aporia, the report should be made, as it seems to me, in the technical report of passage; the House, within its full discretion, should therefore adapt this text to Article 81, as is logical for it to be in parliamentary passages. I say this quietly, Mr President, but it seems to me that this is the only possibility - and I believe there is a precedent here - to carry on the excellent work we are doing. We have noticed an aporia and healthy it: the President of the Budget Committee says how healthy it is, the President of the Senate takes note of it, the rapporteur or the President of the Budget Commission write that this must be done and done in his own seat, that is, in the other House that will soon take charge of the measure. So, I think I'm cooperating seriously with a useful definition of this work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u24	Thank you for your suggestions and your cooperation, which can be re-evaluated in the vote on the coordinating proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u27	FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, before I speak on this point, I would like to speak on another. A short time ago, when another senator asked to speak on the order of business, you asked him why, answering that we were voting; then, I heard that he addressed the House, saying that we are in the process of voting. But if it is the vote on the rapporteur's amendment, on 36,200, I would point out, by making a suggestion, that it is not an amendment to be voted on, but that it must be withdrawn because it contradicts one another in relation to the objective that you set with the coordination proposal. This is my first suggestion. If you'll allow me, I'd add a second. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, I can't follow you. I'm asking you to be more clear. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Of course, Mr. President. Amendment 36,200 says that the rule of invariance is valid except for certain articles. But this is not the case because the clarification contained in Amendment No 36,200 contradicts what is written in the next coordinating proposal which would be misread. In fact, if you propose it as coordination and not as an amendment according to the request of the President of the 5th Commission on Article 81, it is in the coordination rule that the rule contained in amendment 36,200 should be included. If you now put Amendment No 36,200 to the vote, it precludes the possibility of achieving the objective of approving a subsequent coordination rule. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have made it clear that this is an amendment. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). No, ma'am. You are following the objective of dealing with what is, as the President of the 5th Commission said, a rewording as a coordination rule and the remark made by President Azzollini replied that it is or is not a coordination rule, we would have talked about it after the explanations of vote and before the final vote. If, at the time when we were to talk about the coordination rule, the variation provided for in amendment 36,200 had already been introduced, which already this morning, since there was no such proposal, had been considered as an implicit coordination rule, it would have a pre-coordination and post-coordination. My suggestion is to look at everything later. I propose that we clarify this because there are two precedents. The most recent, if I remember correctly, goes under the name of the previous Fuda, and dates back to the 2007 Finance Act, and the second is found in the 2004 Finance and was related to a problem of environmental protection (this is the year when we had to return between Christmas and New Year's Eve). The agenda, suggested by President Azzollini, would be the cleanest procedure in the sense that if we did not do so we would, from the point of view of one half of the House, have a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and, from the point of view of the majority, the creation of a precedent which, as someone has mentioned this morning, could then be used in reverse in the years to come. The most appropriate thing, since at the point where we are we cannot revisit a rewording of Article 36, would be to realize - as has already happened - the difficulty we have encountered, among other things considering also the amount of work of the Budget Commission which is clearly shown, in plastic representation, also in the capacity of its President, and it is by the admission of the President himself that it has been said that perhaps there has been a forgetfulness. How can we fail to realize that for this statement (perhaps there has been a forgetfulness), that is, for the forgotten recognition as well as for the rewording on which the Government has expressed itself in the Budget Committee and on which the Accounting Report is expressed, we want to re-vote the same rule despite the fact that we know, Mr President, that we cannot re-vote a rule that has already been voted on. This would lead us to a serious violation. The cleanest way forward, if we all agree, is to vote on the measure as it is, so much so that we have already made some changes and in any case the bill must return to the House. If instead of returning for a change, it returns for two changes, it is not a serious violation. This has already happened and there are precedents, alternating in periods of center-right and centre-left government. With regard to the Government's suggestion, as President Azzollini pointed out, we can very well turn it into an agenda, approve it (in this case unanimously, because it is a condition under Article 81), after which we will re-vote the measure as the House will send it back to us, in the way it must be approved in order to ensure that it does not incur problems of unconstitutionality and not put in trouble the Head of State in the promulgation. We must also be aware of this, because unconstitutionality is not only a matter of substance, but is often also a matter of procedure. You will remember perfectly well the judgment of the Constitutional Court concerning the problems of amendmentability, when the amendments are not taken into account in the right place, therefore in the Commission, as in this case. The reformulation under Article 81 in this case was not made in the Budget Commission, but was proposed to the Assembly and is not approved with the right education and proper consideration by it. In the event that the rewording should be examined in the Commission, then it would be possible to amend it, but if - as you mentioned this morning - it is a proposal for coordination, the proposal for coordination is not subeminable, President, and as such (not being a formal but substantial rewording), you contradict the Constitution, as it comes to damage the legislative procedure provided for in the Constitution which provides for the possibility of submitting proposals for correction and therefore amendments to the legislative provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u28	I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteurs and the Government to the opinion expressed by the 5th Commission: The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, complementing the opinion on the text, therefore, there is an opinion already expressed that complements the previous opinion, "confirms the opinion not precluded with the following condition, " therefore it is a conditional opinion " within the meaning of Article 81 of the Constitution: the coverage referred to in Article 32 (4) must be understood as specified as follows: "4. The delegation referred to in this Article shall be implemented within the limit of EUR 7 million for each of the years 2018 and 2019 and within the limit of EUR 6 million for the year 2020. The relevant burden shall be borne by the Social Fund for Employment and Training (...)." The rest is the same. Is this opinion accepted by the rapporteurs at this stage?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u29	Mr President, we accept the proposal for coordination, bearing in mind that in this sense it must be technically formulated, that our amendment refers to the parts of paragraph 4 which are amended, because this rewording does not completely change paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u32	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to understand: the rapporteurs say that they would maintain their proposal for formal coordination, referring to Article 32 that we voted on and that today it becomes possible to amend. It seems to me a little out of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, because we should first vote on Rule 32 in the amended text and that is something we cannot do. If the request, made at the beginning of this debate by President Romani, were accepted to return to the Commission, anything would be possible. In fact, we are going to retouch a text that has been voted on and we should vote on whether to correct it according to the guidelines of the Budget Commission. Correctly Senator Pagliari said that his amendment, which is a formal coordination amendment, must presuppose the amendment of Article 32, paragraph 4: this is peaceful. At this point, Mr Azzollini's thesis, if we do not want to go back to the Commission, I think it is the only one that can be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u33	We are dealing with a proposal for the coordination of Article 32 of the draft law under consideration, replacing the reference to EUR 20 million with the figures that come out of the opinion, as amended: that is only coordination. Coordination is in the specification for the breakdown of EUR 20 million over the three-year period, which is broken down as follows: EUR 7 million for each of the years 2018 and 2019 and EUR 6 million for 2020. So that's just the coordination. This is the proposal made by the rapporteurs, when they accepted the opinion of the 5th Commission, as amended and supplemented by the previous opinion. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, do you have to intervene on this? I remind you that we are at a different time: as I said, we are in Amendment No 36,200. Then, on the proposal for coordination, that solution to the agenda was not...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u34	Mr President, if that is the problem, I would ask you to speak on the proposal for coordination in Article 32 when the time comes. So, I'm waiting to hear from you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u36	You have the floor, Senator Azzollini, but what are you going to do about it? I think it is clear what the rapporteurs have said.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u37	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is very clear, but I want to say - otherwise we do not understand ourselves - that we must be careful to go to coordination before we resolve this point. The nature of the opinion that you have read to us is clear: it is a condition of Article 81 of the Constitution. It is not coordination, it is the introduction in the text of the principle of Law No 196 of 2009, the law of accounting and public finance, in relation to Article 81 of the Constitution, which expressly provides for the principle of annuality of the budget. Mr President, there is nothing to do with coordination: nothing at all. The Budget Commission has said that it considers that it places a condition under Article 81 of the Constitution in the fourth paragraph of Article 32 of the draft law under consideration. I only remind myself that the condition is voted before the article and the article then has to comply with that condition. That is why, Mr President, it is useful to dissipate the coordination issues first. Here we are dealing with a fundamental issue: adherence to a so-called over-ordered rule, such as Law No 196 of 2009, which is directly dependent on the constitutional rule of Article 81 and No 243 of 2012. That's the bottom line, so there's nothing to do with coordination here. I would like to express this and repeat what I have said, precisely to enable us to move on regularly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u38	In view of all the speeches that have been made, we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No 36,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u41	FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, are we voting on Amendment No 36,200? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But do I have to repeat things? FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Yes, Mr. President. Since this morning we have been talking about an amendment, if we repeat it, it is not that there is a death sentence. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u42	He's not here for anyone. You asked to speak in an explanation of vote, so it is clear that you already know that there is a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u43	FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No? He wants to speak in an explanation of vote on something that doesn't exist. Speak, please. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Do you speak or do I speak? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She speaks. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Then let me talk, because if you talk, you talk, and if you talk, I don't talk. Let's decide who's talking. I'll talk? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, in an explanation of vote. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). No, Mr President, you put something to the vote without declaring what you were putting to the vote. [[Comments from PD and Art.1-MDP Groups.]] CARDINALI (PD). Listen instead of talking! FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Thanks for the suggestion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll check it in the report. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). I raised my hand, but, not wanting to make a mistake, I simply asked if he was voting on Amendment No 36.200. It was a very simple question, free from any controversy, and I felt to answer that way: I did not start the controversy, even if a little polemic sometimes is good. Mr President, since this morning we have been talking about one thing, it is not that if I take 30 seconds, with all the useless speeches that we are making, you must always take me back and say that we are wasting time: and you make me waste a moment! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's avoid unnecessary talk. I agree with you. [[Applause from the PD Group).]] FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). That's right. Let's make a lot of useless speeches. Allow at this point a polemic: of useless speeches you have made so many, that if I make one... president. I don't allow you to say that. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). And always with this speech of the "I don't allow them"! [[Comments from PD and Art.1-MDP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u44	Senator Ferrara, make all the speeches, useful or useless, whatever you want, but do them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u45	FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Thank you. I just reminded you that it would be better if you did not put Amendment No 36,200 to the vote in this House, because if you were to try, in order to solve the problem of Article 81 of the Constitution, to consider this as coordination (beyond all the problems and reservations that we have about the possibility of this being done through coordination, after the explanations of vote and before the final vote), if you have already put Amendment No 36,200 to the vote, it contradicts this assumption. In fact, it already puts to the vote one coordinating party, which is what could really be understood as more co-ordination than the other; After that, the non-coordination part (and that it would be better to be absorbed in this co-ordination proposal) you propose it as co-ordination. What reason is there to put this amendment 36,200 to the vote now? There's no reason. The amendment was dictated by the willingness of the rapporteurs not to coordinate, but we have seen that coordination is necessary. Then this, which is a pre-coordination, puts it in coordination. You want to see this as an opinion and so you have treated it, asking the rapporteurs for an opinion on the proposal, but there is no opinion of the rapporteurs on the proposal. When a negative opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution comes out of the Budget Commission, which is conditional, it must be put within the text voted, otherwise, if it is not put within the text voted, the text voted is unvotable because it is contrary to Article 81. So there is no opinion and it is a substantial correction of Article 32: do you want to introduce it as coordination? Put Amendment No 36,200 into coordination, do not let it vote separately. That is why I have spoken now or for which I had asked if we were voting on Amendment No 36,200: I had the presumption - I apologize - that this had been clear to you, given my previous speech and that the offices had clarified it to you. That is why I asked you whether we were voting on Amendment No 36,200. When you tell me that, of course, we are voting on Amendment No 36,200, I am somewhat indisputable (and I apologise if the embolism starts), but you too, Mr President, have a moment of patience! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, not the embolism, please. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). We are trying in every way to give advice and to find a solution, but we always want to find, within our proposal, a prejudice: there is no prejudice, Mr President. What we are doing, yes, creates prejudice to the work and represents a precedent that would be good not to create; but instead of taking ours as a advice, we take it only with polemic spirit and vein and as an attempt to obstruct. For this, if you'll allow me, I'm a little sorry and that's why I raise my tones. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Absolutely, there was no such intention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u48	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall vote against this motion for a resolution for two reasons. As far as coordination with Article 27 is concerned, the formula is not sufficient: "except as provided for in Article 27, paragraph 1, but also a reference to paragraph 4 of paragraph 113 -bis is necessary. I have already referred this morning to the opinion of the Budget Committee which required the deletion of the fourth paragraph (then sixth) on the basis of Article 81: it has been reworded in the same terms with only the reference to Article 7 of Legislative Decree 165 of 2001, which does not solve the problem of Article 81. Mr President, I would like to ask you to be careful, because we voted on a text which had an opinion under Article 81 of the Budget Commission, and therefore Article 113-bis, paragraph 4, is either here or there is no coordination and, from the point of view of the correctness of the legislative procedure, that is a violation. On Article 32, today I say that formal coordination is good because Article 32, like this amendment, is coordination. Article 32 - I say this for those who do not remember it - is entirely for coordination: it was dictated by the Budget Commission and transformed into an amendment by the rapporteurs. If you take the view of the Budget Commission to the Commission, you will see that it corresponds to the entire article. So, today I am voting on a coordination amendment which reads: "except as provided for in the current Article 32, which was voted by the House and which was the Budget Commission. When we vote on it, you will tell me that we should be asking the question whether Article 32 is correct or not and it is a question of goat wool, worse than Article 27, because there we have the mathematical certainty, which is cutting, of Article 81. Here, on the other hand, we have a text voted, at the suggestion of the Budget Commission, and the whole article has become identical to the proposal for co-ordination of the rapporteurs. Today you are asking me to vote on a proposal for coordination containing the formula: "except as provided for in Article 32. I thought that there was no expenditure, if we want to use this formula, then we can no longer vote on what the Budget Commission is proposing today, because that becomes an amendment to a text that has already been voted on. So let us first solve the problem of Article 27, because on this we have the mathematical certainty that there will be a problem of verifying the legislative procedure for the sake of the goodness of this law. Paragraph 4 of Article 113-bis has the opposite opinion under Article 81 so, at this point, it is without prejudice to paragraph 4 of Article 113-bis, or otherwise approve the reference to the first paragraph of Article 27, is of no use. With regard to Article 32, I believe that if we vote on this amendment we have not solved the problem, because we will not be able to vote on a correction after coordination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u49	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u50	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 36,200 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u53	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that having taken this vote, the mess is perfect, that is, the law dies. I try to explain to myself: errare humanum est, persevere autem diabolicum, and we in Article 32, not only have we voted for it, but we have voted for it at this time. So, someone wants to explain to me, after voting twice on the same article, how the hell do you put in a coordination rule? Why, in my opinion, does the law die at this point? Because, at this point, the coordination proposed by the Budget Commission is a mandatory condition for the law to be covered under Article 81 of the Constitution. But, when we were to vote on that coordination rule, we would go to amend an article voted twice, thus passing ski boots on our Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to consider what we are going to do, because either the law is discovered or we are approving it, by tabulas, against our Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mandelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u54	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 36. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 36, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u57	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian component of the Misto Group's values to express our support for this important reform of the anti-mafia code. I am in favour of our expressing, not only and not only because a formal commitment has been made, by the Government and the majority, with the approval of the agenda at the first signature of Senator Molinari, to proceed to put hand to article 67, paragraph 6, of the single anti-mafia text to bring back the so-called Law Lazzati to its original formulation, so as to finally prevent the special overseers for Mafia from campaigning, not limiting the prohibition, as it now provides for the formulation, in the article and in the paragraph that I have just recalled, that is, Article 67, paragraph 6, to the only posting of election posters. As Italy of the Values we express favorable vote, not only for this, but above all because this reform will lead to a better efficiency of the operation through the Agency of the confiscated goods, thanks both to its reorganization, and to the increase of the endowment of the staff, especially because it will proceed to the effective valorization of the assets seized and confiscated to the mafias, so that the contrast on the patrimonial plane is real. A will that was enclosed in the law of popular initiative on which, as Italy of the Values, we collected in the last legislature hundreds of thousands of signatures, law that we have redeposited, such and which, in this legislature and which has become part of this bill. In the law of popular initiative it was required that the assets stolen from the mafias return useful to the common good, so as to finally be able to use the more than twenty billion finalizing them to the development and to the job, inflicting a great pain to the mafias that suffer, as we slangly say, for the "peckers" that are confiscated from them. This reform is the fundamental tool for the effective contrast to the mafias as it accelerates the judicial process that leads from the seizure to the final confiscation of the mafia assets, allowing the community to take advantage of them in faster times. Still, we vote favorably while aware of the criticalities present on the side of the extension of the prevention measures also to the crimes not directly related to 416- bis, that is, mafia, beginning with the crimes committed by the corruptors, passing through the crimes related to international terrorism, to end with that of the hateful murders of stalking, directly connected to the many feminicides of which the chronicles today are unfortunately full daily. It is precisely on this last point, namely the feminicides, that the Head of Police was audited yesterday in the Commission. Prefect Gabrielli reported that lately the percentage of women killed has decreased. It is true that the number remains very high, so even this corrective within the anti-mafia code can help prevent this hateful crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u60	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, in fact, we heard in the Commission this morning accusing our colleagues and the Senate in general of not having followed this measure with particular attention and - as Mrs Bianconi said - that she woke up late in noticing, particularly in Article 1, the extension of the anti-mafia legislation as regards kidnappings and confiscations also to all crimes against the public administration. I would then like to show my fellow Members, those who listen to us and those who look at us, an article in the newspaper La Stampa in Turin on 1 May of this year, which takes up my statement after the rejection of amendment 1.3, tabled by myself, which wanted to repeal Article 1, which is the article which provides for this extension. In the article, Giovanardi states: "To my eyes" article 1 is demencial. It will be enough to be investigated - now we know that a clue is enough - for corruption and a judge could seize an entire patrimony and of course, having extended the prescription to more than thirty years, after the confiscation you will have to wait even thirty years to know if you are guilty or innocent. Therefore, not only did we realize what was happening, but we denounced it strongly, unfortunately without receiving great media attention on the denunciation and gravity of what is happening, at the time when anti-mafia legislation is watering down widening it to all crimes against the public administration. I would therefore like to draw the President's attention to the ideology underlying this choice of Parliament, which we have already seen in history, namely to subordinate the rights of the individual citizen, those which the Constitution, after fascism, had carved in defence of the dignity of each individual person and of a criminal law that struck people who had committed a particular crime. This is how Fascism returns: Dino Grandi said, at the time of the reform of the penal code, that there must be no boundaries or gaps between politics and law, but we are convinced that there is an absolute link between them because they represent inseparable phases in the becoming of a people. Hence, from the point of view of fascism, there is the subordination of the individual's interest to the interest of the national community. And it was not by chance that fascism strengthened the security and prevention measures, which prescind from the pay system of penalties based on the fact. Well, here we are talking about confiscation of property without there being a judgment passed in court, but not even a postponement of judgment. Nazism, in its penal code, provided the same thing that: the judge, violating the principles of legality and retroactivity - as we do with this law - and the principle of analog application, could punish a conduct on the simple basis of its opposition to the healthy popular sentiment: those who contrast the healthy popular feeling can be condemned. Then, in the Soviet penal code, there was the infamous article 58, with 14 commas so omnipotent - as Solženicyn explained in the "Arcipelago gulag" - that any activity carried out by any person could be called counter-revolutionary if directed to subvert or weaken the Workers' Council, its security or the gains of the proletarian revolution. Here again there was the confiscation of property (and the death penalty in some cases) for conscious non-execution or deliberate imprudence in carrying out their duties with the aim of sabotaging state activities. As you can see, nothing new under the sun. We are returning to a regression of criminal law typical of totalitarian regimes, with the same reasons that we have heard in totalitarian regimes. This time it's rampant corruption. Which one? The opinion polls? Several times I have said in this House that there are 300 trials a year for corruption in our country that do not end up in prescription but, according to opinion polls, Italy is in the 80th place among the most corrupt countries in the world. It would be millions, always according to the surveys, the Italian people who see themselves asking for bribes and in the last survey, we have reached 160 billion bribes every year. Before it was 60 billion, now we are 160 billion, that is, for every Italian Province, we are at two billion bribes, so, we would be a people made only of corrupt and corrupters, including those who should fight corruption. This is the diagnosis that is made to then carry on this drastic therapy. I wonder, then, and I keep saying this: isn't it that someone is interested in throwing all the effective instruments at sea against the mafia, which are exceptional laws that have passed the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court and also the European courts precisely because of the specificity and danger of the 'ndrangheta, the mafia and the camorra? Isn't there anyone interested in extending the application of preventive measures to crimes, including induction, peculatum and corruption, so that anti-mafia legislation is overwhelmed with this kind of reality? The fact that Violante, Flick, the first President of the Court of Cassation, Canton, Mirabelli and others have made certain statements these days does not make anyone reflect? Doesn't anyone have a problem with that? We leave the Constitution, we imitate the totalitarian regimes, we shoot with the cannon against absolutely variegated realities and then we have to go and explain to the mayors, city councilors and councilors of the 8,000 Italian municipalities how they will manage the public thing when on their head there will be a danger that certainly does not impress professional criminals or those who mean politics as a possibility of enrichment, but it will scare any person for good. That's because the arrangement, Mr. President... If Mr Lumia allows the President to listen to me.... Mr Lumia is the greatest theorizer of the fact that when a person is accused the State must take thirty years to condemn him, because he is not touched by the doubt that, instead, since 60% of the time the subject is acquitted, it is not enough to accuse him of being guilty. So, we turn the Constitution upside down, we go against European law, we imitate totalitarian systems, we cause confusion in anyone who has any common sense in going to public administration because we are establishing preventive confiscation of assets and 30 years to trial them. In fact, with these crimes - just go to the Commission justice to look at the table - you reach up to thirty years and beyond the possibility of being under trial before the final judgment. Is this a civilization of law? I have very great doubts about this, as I have very great doubts that this serves to correct and to fight the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra. Then I see that, despite all this, one cannot reason in terms of what was good for everyone. 90% of the members of this Parliament, including myself since he was here, have always voted on all the rules of rigour against the Mafia: exceptional laws, hard prison, whatever you want. On the ageing of the management of property confiscated from the mafia, in order to prevent them from becoming opaque or mismanaged, there was unanimity in the Commission, so this is a measure that could come out of this House as a strong signal from all of Parliament's four organized crime. Can you explain to me why, in Article 1, someone had the idea that measures should also be extended to crimes against public administration? Who had this idea? Who needs it? To the magistrates? They say no. Who is it that fights corruption? They say no. To the Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court? They say no. To the criminal chambers and all the lawyers? They say no. Who needs it then? Who's up to it? Why is this thing done? Are they very refined minds? I wonder, and I would also like answers, which have not come, except to say, from my colleagues in the Group of the People's Area who voted on all this in the Commission, who realized this morning that it is not good and that now we must leave the freedom of conscience and also President Casini will not participate in the vote because he has noticed - his goodness - that this is a wrong rule. We noticed this two months ago, we said it and said it again, Senator Quagliariello said it and other colleagues said it, we repeated it here, we put forward the questions for a preliminary ruling and we tried to refer the measure back to the Commission, we tried to do everything possible in the interests of the country to ensure that this was a non-divisive rule and to demonstrate to organised crime that Parliament is compact in wanting to fight it. Instead, we come out divided, with a wrong rule, of which naturally the proposers will respond before the country, even in terms of serious violation of our juridical civilization. [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u63	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we come to the conclusion of a very lively and, I dare say, confused debate on a measure which, on the other hand, should have found a broad consensus and a broad consensus and certainly a united will to adopt serious rules to combat such a difficult and dangerous phenomenon as the Mafia. What was to be issued was a certain rule, which was not attackable and also easy to implement, and instead we were faced with a path like what was done in the Commission and in the House at this time, in which we saw the rewording of amendments, the tabling of amendments by the rapporteurs, the fixing of the deadline for the submission of sub-amendments, a form of debate perhaps even a bit chaotic, which certainly creates doubts and doubts about the general layout of the measure. Perhaps this measure should have been born in a more linear way or perhaps - I would like to raise the question - government and majority had to be clearer from the start on what the objective should be. On the other hand, the work has been carried out almost as if it wanted to put on a continuous footing the remarks and concerns which were also considered in the Commission and which, fortunately, some Members of the Commission have raised, otherwise there would also have been macroscopic errors. Unfortunately, however, in order to face the Mafia, absolute determination is needed, as well as unity on the part of the political forces, because special instruments are needed to combat this phenomenon, and I use this term to define instruments that could also be considered exceptional, as well as those for the fight against terrorism. There have been very serious and tense moments in the history of the Italian Republic, such as the years of lead, when terrorism was a very dangerous phenomenon that was fought with heavy weapons, which are laws and must be particular laws. This change in the anti-mafia code, which we had to develop and approve, should have been a truly effective and undisputable tool. What is regrettable is that in this debate there have been comments from outside this House, but they certainly come from authoritative sources, which have raised very serious doubts, considerations and assessments of the measure we are considering today and which we will now have to vote on. This is one of the great problems that have emerged, which has become clear to all my colleagues: it is true that Parliament must be a prince in the drafting and issuing of a law and that it must be as non-influenceable as possible, but we cannot fail to take into account the remarks that have been raised. And to think that the rules for combating the mob are rules that should certainly be changed over time. Someone of whom we certainly do not share totalitarian ideas, when talking about who actually worked in the fight against the Mafia with weapons at times perhaps to the limit, it was heard that the authority of the State had to be restored and that if the laws had been an obstacle, they would have changed. Laws must not be an obstacle to the fight against the mafia, but the real instrument available to act. The mob phenomenon is very articulated and while it once seemed to belong to some regions of our Italy, today it is no longer so. By now, the Mafia phenomenon is all that insinuates criminally within society, business and finance, with increasingly subtle and insidious ways. At times the struggle against the Mafia seems almost a rhetorical argument, while one must think of the actual gravity of the phenomenon and how it evolved over time. We are no longer thinking about the image of the mobster with the coppola and the lupara, which has been replaced by contracts, contracts, the world of finance and - let us not forget - immigration. In fact, we are also talking about mafia infiltrations into the world of immigration and I quote what Dr Roberti said in the parliamentary committee on monitoring the implementation of the Schengen Agreement a few days ago, on 31 May. In answering the question of whether or not mafia infiltrations existed, the prosecutor said: As my colleague Mr Gratteri, attorney of Catanzaro, certainly told you, we have clear evidence on the reception and management of contracts with regard to the reception system. I repeat, there are probative findings of mafia infiltrations into the reception system, this is a serious phenomenon and this is what we need to focus on and not forget how dangerous it can be. In fact, at a time when there are amounts of money such as those that are made available to the cooperatives for the management of immigrants within the reception centres, these denari cannot but be attractive to the mafia and other similar associations. We must pay attention to this and provide for all the instruments to fight, remembering that we can fight even upstream, contrasting the possibility of opening gates where these phenomena can be further undermined. As was said, there is already an apparatus of finance and contracts certainly appealing. Let us not put the phenomenon of immigration, which, by the way, is out of control. We are faced with a measure which, I repeat, wanted to be an effective and functional weapon, while it ended up raising more than anything perplexity. And, gentlemen, what will our fellow citizens think that, out there, they see our work and wonder why, in one verse, an anti-mafia code is provided as the solution to many problems, while, for another verse, authoritative voices deny it completely. The landscape is extremely confused and leaves strong perplexity and confusion, which we are now gathering. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u66	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I believe - alas - that the installation of preventive measures is unknown to most people in this House. I am also referring to my fellow Members who have left the Chamber, showing little interest in the debate on such a sensitive subject. The setting-up of preventive measures, for its objective of defeating organized crime, has so far, with difficulty, I must imagine, surpassed the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court because it provides for a sanctioning system without the acquisition of proof of responsibility. You understand how strong such a measure is, which runs counter to the principles of guarantee enshrined in our Constitutional Charter. They have not understood this very well in Europe either. Many countries have also faked us a little, envying us the courage to have put in place a prevention system that will hit organized crime and mafias before they even find themselves responsible. If the Italian criminal system in order to be functioning must necessarily pass not already through a trial, but through all those precautionary measures (see also these), as an operator of the law I feel somewhat discouraged. Comments on this text mostly come from personalities who, in addition to knowing the law, have also had experience in courtrooms and as lawyers. Attorney Flick, the former president of the Constitutional Court and Dr. Cantone intervened (authorly, because, before performing the role of judge, the latter was attorney, so as such he acquired a certain culture with respect to a measure that affects that system and the installation of those prevention measures). Probably, the greatest damage you do with this measure is not so much to hit corruption - a hateful crime, which must be severely sanctioned, also to give an adequate response to the Italians - but to compromise that assessment of constitutionality of the patrimonial forecast that until now had been benevolently granted by the Consulta. If this happens, virtually the whole system will be unbalanced. You did not consider that a case-law was being consolidated in affirming the goodness of prevention measures when they were directed at organised crime. That is what, from an exquisitely technical point of view. There is still something to be said to those of my colleagues who are absent, what has happened in this House today. The statement that the House of Deputies will correct the provision for our examination, moreover made by very authoritative members of the Democratic Party, offends, degrades and mortifies our role and the Senate. This morning, when I heard this statement that intervened after Dr. Cantone's statements, I had a motorbike of rebellion, so much so that I let myself go wondering if it was ever possible that, in order to correct a measure, I, Nitto Palma, Caliendo, Milo, Calderoli, Quagliariello and all the others, we were useless. There must be a voice of dissent from outside. That is why I felt sorry, but not for myself, but for the authority of the Senate that was seriously compromised this morning. We have extended prevention measures to crimes against the public administration. At first, in general discussion I pointed out that they had included also the peculate of use, that is, an administrator who uses the car for personal purposes met the preventive measures, the personal ones and, possibly, the patrimonial ones. This aspect has been corrected and eliminated. A link has been created with Article 416 of the penal code and the crime of aggravated fraud has been left out, with a cause - alas - distressing, considering that it comes from legal practitioners. It has been said, in fact, that there was no need to link this rule to Article 416 because the aggravated fraud is a crime that is usually consumed in competition with other people, so much so that I took the trouble to go and look at the repertoire of criminal jurisprudence and brought to the Assembly the judgments that saw only one person condemned for the crime of aggravated fraud. I asked - shouting - to allow us to vote. We cannot fail to vote for a measure to combat organised crime and we cannot fail to do so in the first place because of our history. In fact, the history of those sitting on this side of the House is marked by measures that have strongly countered organised crime. The harsh prison, but also the current prevention measures, are measures that have been enacted by the center-right forces of this country, and today they prevent these same forces that fight crime, from voting on a measure in this matter. I asked for courtesy not to put myself in a position not to vote on a measure that has the title (but only by title) of the words: "contrast to organized crime" (Translated with Google Translate) It is not a measure which, beyond the title, will have the effect of combating organised crime. It is not a measure that runs counter to, on the contrary, I do not know how to predict the future but I am convinced that this extension will necessarily involve the unconstitutionality of the whole system and we will find ourselves unable to use the effective instrument of prevention measures even for the mafia. I said an aesthetic surgery was performed where an oncology surgery was to be performed. They have been confined to cosmetic surgery but we who sit here in the aesthetic surgeon's room do not know what to do with it, we do not resort to this kind of professional, we aim at the substance of things and in this measure the substance is not there. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u69	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, after a long investigation in the Justice Commission and in this House, we are preparing to give the final green light for this Senate to the new rules on prevention measures and, in particular, on the anti-mafia and anti-terrorism code. Despite the vulgate and the necessary journalistic simplification, these are not only rules to be applied in the fight against the mafia, but also rules that will have a profound and substantial impact on the fight against various forms of crime and that aim to attack the criminal phenomenon immediately, at its first appearance: not ex post (i.e. to committed crime), but hic et immediate, as far as possible, with the aim and in the attempt to precede (as a criterion of general prevention) and to prevent, in particular, the full consumption of the most serious crimes and in any case to prevent their protraction and enjoyment. It exists in our society and in the political class, as we have also seen during our work in this House, a kind of schizophrenia and at the same time pharisaic behaviour. We cannot, on the one hand, demand social and individual security, rightly demand respect for constitutional criminal procedural principles and, on the other hand, immediately afterwards, in the face of criminal phenomena characterized above all by pervicacy and resurgence, so as to arouse serious and well-founded social alarm, seek in any way to prevent these phenomena from being adequately attacked, before they are brought to the extreme consequences, with the forms and instruments of prevention or surveillance measures, already provided for by our law, for every type of crime, even less serious of corruption and concussion, under certain conditions. It should be remembered that the system of our prevention measures as a whole is a system that has already been in place, has been in operation and has been working for years. It is a system that has repeatedly passed the strict scrutiny of the Court of Cassation, the Italian Council and the European Courts of Justice. However, the need for an update and a remodulation of this system, in the light of both the experience gained, with particular reference to the management of the assets and the seized companies, and the increased sensitivity to new occurrences and criminal emergencies, is undoubtedly necessary. If it is less complicated to reach a broad political agreement in the fight against terrorism, particularly international, it appears that it is already more complicated to reach a political consensus on preventive and more effective systems against mafia crime. And if so many speak against the serious scandals in the face of corruption, many less are those who seek, really and concretely, tools to counter at the root, as well as culturally and administratively, every appearance, already in the cloud, of the corrupt, of the corruptor, of the concussor. And while always saving the purposes, the rules and the times of the criminal trial, which is however a trial by its own repressive nature, but posthumous, "to dead father" would be said. And the situation of stalking victims is even more delicate. How many times have we heard, even harshly, the police and the judiciary criticized for not intervening promptly to protect a woman, in inexorable temporal succession, assaulted, raped and perhaps killed? And how many times has it been said that the substantive and procedural rules on persecutory acts did not allow it? Or maybe they're wrong, like the last one approved by voting on the recent reform of the penal code? Now, Parliament cannot turn on the other side. It is Parliament's task to provide, and today it is the task of this Senate, by approving this bill, to decide to prevent and hinder the immediate consumption of this particularly hateful crime. No one wants to hide behind a finger and no one wants to deny that, for some rules, one travels along the line of constitutional legitimacy, but within this legitimacy. But only on a rule - I emphasize it: only on a norm - only now there is an animated debate; there has even been a ruse on the norm that extends to corrupt and concussor, in a temperate form, the prevention measures. It would be a question of why. The norm had arrived to us from the Chamber of Deputies in a much wider formulation, almost total; in the Senate it was corrected and some critical solan did not even notice it, and it was made more stringent and connected to the associative crime, responding precisely to the remembered factual, logical and legal needs, even perhaps discontenting those who would claim to exceed instead the constitutionally imposed limit, with the confirmation of the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. If and when it is called into question, the Constitutional Court will tell us whether compliance with the constitutional parameters will also be met by the new forecast for associated corrupt criminals, to be subjected to preventive measures, or whether the legislator should stop to foresee these measures only for mafias and terrorists. In any case, the new oracles of anti-mafia and anti-corruption inside and outside this House are calmed down, because the two predictions are autonomous and nowhere is it written about their inseparableness. The principle of simul stabunt, simul cadant, does not apply here. With the measure we are examining today, on the other hand, which is much wider and with many other rules that are certainly positive, first of all we would like to intervene in order to regulate, record and adapt to today's criminal phenomenology some legal institutions already in existence in our legal system, in the fight against great crime and terrorism, such as the seizure and confiscation of assets and, in particular, of assets, not only for mafia crimes, but also for the caporalate, for the so-called eco-reactors and for money laundering. More specifically, we want to intervene on the vexed question of the administration, management and destination of such seized and confiscated assets, as well as on the judicial control of companies and financial instruments and of tax and contribution rewards, necessary to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of the seized and confiscated companies. In the same way, action is taken to ensure the strengthening and efficiency of the National Agency for the Administration and the destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime; seeking to meet the limits highlighted in recent years and delegate the Government to better regulate - among other things - the regime of incompatibility in all this sector, in the wake of what already provided for in the bill for judicial administrators of seized property. Secondly, action is taken both to confirm the audience of the recipients of personal and real prevention measures, including the events of terrorism and exversion, and to provide for an extension of the audience of these recipients to persons formally involved in criminal phenomena, which the new and more recent social and political sensitivity considers to have to subject, not only to criminal proceedings, but also to adequate and modern prevention systems. I am referring, in a clear and as I have already mentioned, to the list of offences and of persons to whom they are addressed, referred to in Articles 4 and 16 of the text under consideration, as amended by us, even though there are so many disputes and disputes on the part of the political right. This means that, from now on, the beneficiaries of the measures in question will be not only the mobsters or terrorists, but also, for example, the fraudsters against the Italian and European public bodies and the accused of stalking (I remember that this was also intended to adhere to multiple, incessant and diversified requests, which underline the need for protection before the crime can be brought to the most harmful and harmful consequences). The beneficiaries of the measures are, again, the corrupt, the corruptors and the concussors in the context of a criminal association, as well as those who endanger public safety, even on the occasion or due to sporting events, obviously according to the technical and procedural specifications indicated in the norms of the legislative provision. We believe that, with the draft law under consideration, positive work has been done so far by Parliament and the Government. Also in the area of the fight against corruption, one of the most serious and long-standing social, administrative and political emergencies of our society, as all independent observers, both national and international, continue to repeat to us, as well as all the Italian bodies of institutional control in this matter (so much so that it is believed to have to speak of a real national scourge), this bill intervenes clearly and clearly, respecting constitutional legality and giving in a decisive way the idea of a legislator that sets itself the objective of combating the phenomenon of corruption, yes from the point of view of repression, but above all from the point of view of prevention, both general and special. And by confirming the idea that corruption must be fought from every point of view, making sure that being corrupt or corrupt does not even pay anymore: in fact, for corruption the substratum and the attainment of economic, financial and all sorts of profit, as for the crimes of mafia or aggravated fraud, would weaken the very sense of the criminal, aimed at the search and acquisition of illicit profit. This could only be done by intervention (and may I say so) which is obtusely repressive (sometimes) to genuinely effective preventive interventions; from intervention in the logic of action after the oxen have escaped from the barn left open, to forward-looking interventions aimed at the preventive protection of our goods and our values, always respecting the Constitution. Those values that want to safeguard this bill: the physical and moral integrity of people, the protection of victims of crimes of terrorism, mafia, stalking, concussion, respect for legality, the defence of our constitutional order. For all these reasons and to give a strong and clear signal of fight against all mafias and corruption, Group 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Art.1-MDP and Senator Campanella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u72	DI MAY (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, bad thinking is a sin, but it is often right. I would like to try to give a temporal reconstruction of the measure under consideration and perhaps I will also be able to give some answers to my colleague Giovanardi about the reason why. This measure is fired in 2015 by the Chamber of Deputies and then it doesn't take long: I have learned in these four years that the measure can remain quietly in the drawers and in fact remains there for two years and at a certain moment it becomes very urgent, and the chronicle of these days of how the debate has developed in the Chamber will be charged to demonstrate how ruffled the measure itself is. Why, then, does it become urgent at some point? I'm not a fan of retrology, but some things lined up tend to come to conclusions. I like to be able to talk about it today because the "levata" of that question of Senator Zanda against the attorney of Naples and against a department of the Arm of the Carabinieri points out that there are some itchy at this time and that perhaps in the Democratic Party have skipped a bit 'all the compasses. A certain Vittorio Tutino, who is not just anyone, seems to have realized this: he is a Palermon boss of what we have been acquitted by the accusation of having taken part in the massacre of Capaci and is accused of the massacre of Via D'Amelio. Reasoning on the current situation of opposition to the Mafia Vittorio Tutino says: ==References====External links== Mr President, far from me to believe that Vittorio Tutino knows the story of Bertrada di Laon, the mother of Charlemagne and wife of Pipino il Breve. The statement at this point seems all the more serious. What does it say, in essence, Vittorio Tutino? It affirms that the contrast to the Mafia phenomenon is falling, that attention is falling, that the legislative measures are delayed and when they arrive are weakened and that the so well-known and reproached 41- bis is watered down by very questionable administrative measures, that denounce a prison system now out of control and no longer under the government of the State. Mr President, I shall then turn to Rule 41- bis, which has brought us to the fore in today's news for the events of Totò Riina, and - may I say this - I also take advantage of this to perpetuate the teachings of a magistrate's brother whose memory is today muddled and vile by a convent of magistrates who lack good knowledge of law and good practices of judicial police, but certainly not of outstanding gifts of fantasy and media stage. What is this article 41 -bis? He was born to prevent Mafia prisoners from communicating orders and messages to the outside world. The prison regime provided for in this article, despite, as mentioned, the stiffening, is gradually losing its effectiveness due to established practices that empty its original function. As has been pointed out by the Anti-Mafia Commission, there is a dangerous practice that violates the prohibition laid down in Article 41-bis of contact of prisoners with the outside world. I am thinking, for example, of the exceptional permits granted to bosses for visits to their family members. I'm making an inscription: that the Democratic Party has lost the compass is given by another fact that I detect. There is, in fact, a measure wanted by the Undersecretary Migliore - who is not here today and I regret this - which even calls for certain services to be provided within prisons and that, for those to whom the 41-a applies, the possibility of using Skype is given. Let's go on like this! But there are also exceptional cases that are allowed. I think, for example, of Salvatore Pesce, arrested in 2011 and subjected to 41- bis precisely because of his strong criminal leadership in Calabrian territory. Fish has been authorized to return to that territory with the prison police escort. The result was an endless procession of people who went on pilgrimage in front of the boss's house. This isn't the only case. These cases corroborate what the boss Tutino has said. In 1992, the year of production of the standard, no permit of this type had ever been granted until 2009. Today we are witnessing a worrying increase in the phenomenon. Since the beginning of this year, the magistrates of surveillance have arranged, on the basis of emergencies represented by prisoners, 17 permits, which, among other things, cost citizens about 20,000 euros each. Last year there were 20 prisoners brought home and today's news is also charged with telling us that, taking advantage of these permits, authoritative exponents of the world of crime can give themselves to the fugitive. Not only in the name of a manner of guarantee, endorsed by the short-sighted choices of judicial policy of the majority and the government, we are forced to see further blows to that harsh prison regime that wanted to break the mafia's relations with families and territory. For these reports the Mafia yesterday blew up a thousand kilos of TNT, while today it is being strengthened without any noise thanks to the practice of transforming the 41- bis regime into high surveillance for the Mafia prisoners. You'll say, but the anti-mafia code? I believe that the events of 41-a are emblematic. I am talking about this because I have the impression that this measure does not adequately take into account the essential elements of effective anti-mafia legislation, which has been pointed out by primary institutional actors such as the Anti-Mafia Commission and the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, neglecting the fact that in these days also authoritative lawyers have been included in this debate. That being the case, are the institutions loosening the grip or are they developing an interpretation of the rule that nevertheless gets the result of less rigour which, in turn, generates the idea of a logic of favor? Of course, we all agree on the need to pursue a tough fight against the Mafia. Therefore, it would have been appropriate to remove any margin of discretion, using the data acquired and the observations expressed precisely by the Anti-Mafia Commission, in order to rewrite a rule that would have better guaranteed the original spirit of Article 41-a. Another example that I think is significant of the possible improvements to a text that is asphyxiated is the preservation of the value of assets seized from confiscated property. We have been talking about this issue for years, but I believe that the content of the text adopted in the Commission is still moving from a bureaucratic and procedural point of view rather than dealing with the concrete aspects of it. It is common ground, in fact, that many (in my opinion too many) of the assets subject to capital measures end up losing their value. This is particularly true of companies. These are goods that necessarily require management methods that allow them, from the moment of seizure, to safeguard the value or their productive capacity. It is an objective that would allow to pursue both the interest of the owner of the company in case of a favourable outcome of the criminal proceedings against him, and of the community in case, instead, of negative outcome of the same procedure, collectivity that could benefit from a seized asset managed with criteria of economicity and market, contrary to what in fact continues to ascertain, despite a regulation that wants to pursue precisely that objective. Finally, but not in order of importance, once again, despite good intentions, it seems to me that the measure shows a lack of attention to the guarantee aspects of the prevention procedure. A procedure, drawn up by the text that we are firing, which I fear does not take into proper consideration this fundamental aspect, that of the necessary defensive guarantees, which should be the fil rouge that binds all the procedural legislation as these guarantees are connaced with the foundations of the rule of law (we peeled our hands the other day in remembering Rodotà and this argument). This would not be at the expense of an effective fight against the phenomenon of mafias: only by guaranteeing guarantees - pardon me for the bickering of words - can the most incisive blows be made to organised crime of all kinds. In essence, Mr President, the measure comes at this time and, although there are some positive aspects within it, such as the preventive measures against stalkers, which have been well remembered both by Senator Ricchiuti and Senator Casson, the elements I have mentioned continue, in my opinion, to demonstrate a fundamental fact: this measure is only made in order to be used in the electoral campaign and we cannot continue to legislate in an attempt to give answers to public opinion that go in the interest of the Democratic Party. For these reasons, Mr President, the LAG Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the GAL Group (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u75	D'ASCOLA (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will try to be as brief as possible. The main objective of this bill is far removed from all the issues raised in this House, as it usually happens when the debate diverges on issues that do not grasp the essence, the most important thing. On the other hand, a reform a few years after the introduction of the anti-mafia code was not justified if a very fundamental aspect had not been taken up. The fundamental aspect to be corrected is the management of goods, especially when it comes to companies. It is good to say that the main objective of this bill is to allow companies to constitute an economic opportunity for the community, and, when the seizure fails to confiscate, that companies be returned to those who are entitled to it under the same conditions as those under which they were kidnapped. The draft law, therefore, has an essential objective: the fight against organised crime is won even if the state is able to distribute well-being, to guarantee the maintenance of employment, when employment exists and, therefore, if it meets the objective of allowing these companies to participate in the composition of national GDP. We have done everything in this direction; we have also written a second anti-mafia code (it is good to say, in a context in which the importance of things done is not even recognized). We think we have contributed in this direction; perhaps we would have wanted to do more, and who knows the many traversies that the discussion of the bill has had to go through, understands the meaning of the sentences I am uttering. So that was the real goal of the reform. I repeat, to grasp this objective means to present the State not as a liquidator who intervenes in order to quit productive activities, but as a person who, interrupted the relationship of dependence with organized crime, nevertheless uses these companies in the economic sense and in the collective interest. This is the first point on which we have spent our efforts. Who says that this bill has been kept in the drawer for two years, does not know the volume of work that has been carried out and perhaps not interested in knowing it, in an epoch of post-truth, in which the truth without any other qualification does not interest anyone, while everyone is interested in conjecture, illations, or even chatter. That is the first point. There is a second point I want to talk about and it is a historical issue: that of guaranteeing. The process of applying preventive measures is not a guarantee but a synthetic process. Why is it synthetic and not guaranteed? Because measures must only have a preventive function. It is clear - and here I address all the senators present - that, if we pass this prevention parameter and then take over punitive measures, the code exposes itself to those risks of constitutionality with which I have to say late - and I stress the adverb three times - it has been discussed these days, after the Commission had taken on these problems. It was taken into account in practice, not only because we know that the European Court of Human Rights had intervened in the well-known De Tommaso judgment (of which no one has mentioned it), with which certain aspects of the prevention measures were in a certain sense accused of violating the rules of the European Convention on Human Rights. We, in order to answer this question of constitutionality of the process for the application of preventive measures, had proposed a series of innovations, which would obviously not have filled the difference between the ordinary process and that of prevention, but would have made the prevention process more guaranteed, more protected than those risks of constitutionality of which - I repeat the adverb - lately, very late spoke. Among the many things that we have managed to introduce - I would have liked much more in this direction - there is the right to trial, which constitutes a completely revolutionary innovation - I use a meaningful term, aware of the meaning that must be attributed to it - because it introduces a right to proof that was in the Constitution, but that for the prevention process was not recognized. Well, this amendment which we wanted and which we have tabled, fortunately - and here too I use a powerful adverb - has passed away, but no one has noticed it. Even the many posthumous and distracted interventioners have not noticed that the process for the application of preventive measures, following the indications of a well-known judgment in joined sections (the Cagnazzo judgment) has grown as far as guarantees and is therefore more protected from the risks of unconstitutionality. I conclude - because it was the only amendment that I have tabled - with this introduction: I believe it will save some lives; and even if it saves one, the Senate will be proud to have been the protagonist of a real attempt to protect so many lives of unfortunate young women who are killed, with a repetition of conduct that is a very alarming problem on the side of cohesion in our society. I intend to propose - then, of course, the Commission and the House have voted accordingly - a rule which does not contradict the systematic structure of prevention measures, because stalking is a crime involving repeated conduct and, therefore, we are in the system of prevention measures; but then, also on the basis of awareness - it was considered to introduce - that the rule referred to in Article 612-a is indisputable in court. This is a constitutional speech, because the Constitutional Court has spoken about the crime of plagiarism: too many and inevitable spiritual components and the difficulty, the anguish, the fear, the persecution and, above all, the probative impossibility to demonstrate the causal relationship between the persecutory fact and the condition of subjection, of anguish and of danger in which the victim finds himself operating. Therefore, we felt that this could in a certain sense constitute the door to remedy a police right, which was abandoned at the time when jurisdiction seemed an inevitable solution, but perhaps it should be rethought if we are convinced that, for certain crimes - and here I am talking about feminicide - what can actually pay the company's demand for justice is prevention and certainly not criminal law, which intervenes when an event or death has already occurred. Mr President, I should like to interrupt my speech here. I should like to talk about a number of subjects that no one has mentioned, but it is not possible to do so. I say this with great suffering, because this complex text has been discussed only with regard to crimes against public administration: it really is a matter of concern to us, because it is a demonstration of the fact that we are talking about nothing, about things beyond everything on which we are perfectly in agreement, because we hope that the House will put an end to something that we have never liked, so much so that in the Commission this debate was evident well before others talked about it. In expressing my personal support for such a significant, complex and debated text, I must inform the House that the Group to which I belong has decided to leave freedom of vote to its members, who will then decide to act according to their own conscience. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the work on the draft law here and, as has been established, we are moving to the information of the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u77	The next item is the report by the Minister for the Interior on the management of migration flows. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Interior Minister, Senator Minniti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 and 28 June in Italy there was an extraordinary influx of migrants from the central Mediterranean: 22 ships, which have become 25 in the course of the hours, and more than 10,000 people saved at sea arrived in our country; 10,000 more people who have brought the total number of migrants who have arrived in our country since January 2017 to 85,000: +18.40 percent compared to last year. It is an extraordinary influx - I said - that has put a strain on the system of landing and reception of our country. Allow me in this House - I think I interpret the feeling of all the parliamentary groups - to thank all those who have worked to deal with this extraordinary situation: the police forces, the Coast Guard, the Navy, the prefects, the mayors, the Red Cross, the volunteers. The situation is very difficult and challenging, well summed up by the committed and demanding words of the President of the Republic, at that time on an international mission. We reacted on two sides: the first was to solve the problem on the ground of reception and the second was to put in place a political initiative that immediately signalled the very difficult situation in which Italy was found. We have taken an initiative that - in my memory - is unprecedented. We sent the ambassador to Brussels to the European Commission, to make it very clear that, in the face of what was happening in the Central Mediterranean and then in Italy, Europe had to take more responsibility. In the following hours, we called for a meeting with the main Ministers of the Interior of Europe (French and German), in which Mr Avramopoulos also took part. It was an important meeting, very challenging and - we have to tell the truth among ourselves - at some difficult times too. However, it was and is very important that a common position has come from that meeting between the main European countries and the Commission, which could enable a message to be made clear at the summit in Tallin tomorrow. That Sunday, we took a first step, but still a step, confirmed by the European Commission through the preparation of the action plan. I consider it very important that France, Germany and the Commission have somehow had a convergence on a number of our proposals. The first is that of a code of conduct for non-governmental organisations operating in the central Mediterranean. This is not an extemporaneous government initiative. There has been intensive parliamentary work by various committees, including the Senate Defence Commission, which has been adopted unanimously. And I am aware of the dynamics of Members of Parliament and I know very well how challenging it is and, above all, how strong the message of a document adopted unanimously is. The Government had and has a duty to listen to Parliament and to take an initiative on these issues. It is clear and clear that there is no prejudice or generalization. However, Parliament's work shows that two major issues need to be raised. The first question is the need to coordinate the activities of non-governmental organisations, the numerous ships operating in the central Mediterranean, the Libyan coastal waters and the Libyan Coast Guard. And that is a crucial point, because it is quite clear that in the territorial waters the Libyan Coast Guard must operate according to the principle of full responsibility. Between a thousand difficulties and many problems, in recent months the Libyan Coast Guard has operated 10,000 rescues at sea. And these things tell you not the Italian Government, but the World Organization for Migration, which just yesterday, in recognizing the efforts and progress made on the ground of the rescue initiative at sea - search and rescue - also said that the Libyan Coast Guard saved many people from safe death. You understand that, at a time when a Coast Guard acts, it is essential to establish that there must be an action of the Coast Guard in territorial waters and all other activities, including those of ships of non-governmental organizations, must take place outside territorial waters. The second issue that will be raised in the Regulatory Code concerns coordination with judicial police activity with respect to human traffickers. I would point out that the other ships in the Mediterranean are military. At the time when numerous civil ships operate, a serious country takes all the measures to combine the salvation of life with the requirements of its own safety and the absolute necessity to be inflexible in the contrast to the traffickers of human beings. Then, as you will understand - you will understand it even better when I read some data - we are faced with a matter not of very small account. In the first six months of this year, in front of 85,000 saved people, the numbers are as follows: 34 percent were saved by non-governmental organizations; 28 percent by our Coast Guard; 9 percent within the Sophia mission; 11 percent within the Frontex mission; 7 percent by merchant ships operating in the central Mediterranean. In the face of this initiative by the Government, which today has become the European Commission and the main European countries, we would once have talked about a beautiful page of cooperation between Parliament and the Government. Parliament makes an investigation and proposes; the government moves in harmony and presents it in Europe, thus becoming a European position. I hope that is the case today in this Parliament. If not, I'll be quiet, a little surprised, but I'll be quiet. It is important that, alongside this measure, the European Union has committed the Commission and two important European countries are committed to strengthening the European Union's activity and financial commitment in Libya. And Libya is a key country in this game; there you play a crucial game: 97% of the people who arrived in the first six months of this year come from Libya - I stress - and the most singular thing is that there is no Libyan. You will then understand that it is there that you play a crucial game. Libya is not Turkey, with which Europe has negotiated to close down in fact or, in any case, to keep the Balkan route under very strong control. The 2016 data are very clear: Balkan route, -72 percent; Western Balkan route, -84 percent; Central Mediterranean route, +18 percent. In this data there is a huge problem, which not only Italy - it would be wrong to believe - but the whole of Europe. In Libya we have to measure ourselves with the fragility and instability of the country, and everything is much more difficult. However, there is a clear link - and I would like to make it clear to no one - between the stabilisation of Libya and the non-neighborhood struggle against human traffickers, because in order to do what they do, they need fragile and weak institutions and to control the territory. Fighting human trafficking means in fact helping the stabilisation of Libya. Of course this is not only the problem - there are other issues concerning international and diplomatic initiatives - but it is one of the points, the heart of the agreement that Italy signed with Libya, based on three cornerstones of which we have several times and I have talked extensively in Parliament, so you will allow me not to go back there, for reasons of time. Allow me, however, to give you the state of progress. Its first cornerstone, the control of Libyan territorial waters, passes through the reinforcement, training and increased capacity of initiative of the Coast Guard. We have trained the crews in recent months; we have delivered four patrol boats to the Libyan Coast Guard and others we will deliver in the coming weeks and months. In the next few days, he will go to Tripoli for logistical support a patrolman of the Finance Guard. You will understand, therefore, that there is a real investment and cooperation: the numbers of the IOM, which I gave you before, testify that there is an activity. It is very important that there has been and there is a commitment on the part of the European Commission to finance and build - and this must be done as soon as possible - a maritime rescue coordination centre in Tripoli. The aim is to do so by the end of the year, at the latest by the beginning of next year. A coordination centre for rescue activity in Tripoli is an important element, because at the moment, in the central Mediterranean, only the Italian maritime coordination and rescue centre is operating. Having a sea rescue centre in Tripoli, which therefore allows the Coast Guard to operate in territorial waters and, at the same time, to bring back to Libya the people who are saved in territorial waters, is a crucial point. The second cornerstone is the following: since the objective is to have a Coast Guard that controls the flows from the northern coast of Libya to bring them back to Libya, it is essential not to open new reception centres, because in Libya there are so many, but to guarantee respect for human rights, and on this I think that the Italian Parliament can only be deeply intransigent. In this regard, however, let us make a statement of truth between us: in recent months the International Organisation for Migration has returned to Tripoli and UNHCR, which handles these issues for the United Nations, has gone to Tripoli for the first time. Now, of course, it's about implementing all this work. It is about finding stronger and more significant support and the fact that Europe invests more in this - you understand - means tackling another small piece of the Central Mediterranean project. The third cornerstone is the issue of control of Libya's southern borders. This is a crucial issue. The sub-Saharan border is a fundamental element for the control of human trafficking and anti-terrorism activity. The southern border of Libya is the southern border of the central Mediterranean and, therefore, is the southern border of Europe. It is not the southern border of Italy. If anyone thinks Sub-Sahara is the southern border of Italy, it makes a dramatic mistake. Sub-Saharan is Europe's border. Its security is a fundamental game for the future of the entire European continent. In recent weeks the main tribes have come to Rome, the so-called guardians of the desert - the Tebus, the Tuaregs, the Suleimans - who were at war with each other and signed peace in front of the Italian Government. And they did it to the Ministry of the Interior, to the Viminale, expressing a very strong trust in the relationship with our country. Those tribes will be able, tomorrow, to form the backbone of a modern Libyan border guard to protect the southern borders of Libya, together with two other key countries with which we have closed a cooperation agreement, Niger and Chad. You understand, therefore, that there is beginning to be a prospect of organic intervention on the other side of the Mediterranean. In the coming days I will go to Tripoli to meet the Libyan mayors and discuss concrete development and cooperation projects with them. At a time when we set ourselves the goal of cutting off human trafficking - which is absolutely indispensable and immediate, because it is a war without a neighborhood and because at this moment human trafficking is perhaps the only industry that works in Libya, perhaps the only reality that produces, in a criminal way and in the most distorted way possible, a redistribution of income - we must build, together with the communities, an alternative economic circuit. The consensus of local communities is fundamental in the fight against human traffickers, for the reception in Libya and in the fight against terrorism. On 24 July in Tunis we will hold the second meeting - the first was held in Rome - of the contact group between Europe and North Africa. It will be an important time to take stock of this complex strategy. The European Commission has budgeted 153 million for this year and 200 million for next year, but that is not enough. We need a direct financial commitment from the individual Member States. There is a clear disproportion between what has been invested on the Balkan route and what is being invested in the central Mediterranean. It is not understandable and acceptable to me. It is important that there is a common European strategy on return. Returns are a crucial and fundamental point for any immigration policy. At the moment, Italy has produced more than 26 percent for the displaced and more than 16 percent for return. If you asked me if I was happy, I'd say no. But I know perfectly well that, when Europe decides to adopt a common return strategy, it accepts a historic request that Italy has always made. Above all, there is another issue: alongside return, Europe is available - we will see tomorrow in Tallin - to implement a common visa policy. It is a crucial issue, because it is a very obvious problem that we are living in the last hours and these days. We have significant and significant flows from countries that are considered absolutely safe. People who come from safe countries must be repatriated. There is a need for readmission agreements and availability in readmission. If a country does not stop the flows and then does not accept the returns of those who have entered illegally in Italy and Europe, this involves the immediate blocking of the legal visas of those countries. I can assure you that this is an extraordinary push for reunions to take place. Is the matter clear? Finally, regarding the relocation, at the end of 2016 we had relocated 2,600 people; now there are 2,500, to which are added another 400 who are in the final phase of the relocation. We have also taken a step forward in this regard, but it is far from enough. The fact that France and Germany, last Sunday, intended to communicate their intention to increase the relocations to their countries is not absolutely decisive, but it is a small step forward. These are small steps, but I think they are definitely forward. The European Commission has also made calls and, in some way, recommendations, which we will take into account, which I will take into account. On the other hand, if you tell someone called Minniti that he has to do more to implement Minniti's reforms - so it is written in the document - you will understand that for Minniti it is not an impossible mission. However, in these days there has been another very important issue, which is right to address openly in Parliament. In recent years Italy has given an extraordinary proof of hospitality: it has done so, it is doing so and it will do so. The reception is written in the DNA of the Italian people and the country. However, I ask myself and ask you whether you can separate salvation at sea from the land it welcomes. If there is no land and landing place, salvation is only temporary. Separating salvation and acceptance risks appearing to be a gigantic hypocrisy. It is difficult to think that there can be an international rescue mission and a single country that welcomes the people who are saved: this is the heart of the issue that we have posed. [[Applause from the PD,AP-CpE-NCD eAut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Stefano]] I was told to be careful, because it could be a pool factor. I have a feeling that, in this case, a very modern word like this doesn't work. I am afraid that it is a matter of returning to something more ancient, which has always been in the veins of Europe as a whole, but above all in the veins of Central Europe. The word is this: ethic of responsibility. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] The Europe that does not understand this is a Europe that risks losing itself. For these reasons I asked for an explicit discussion and I sent the prefect Pinto, who is the head of the Central Directorate of Immigration of the Department of Public Security, to send a letter to Frontex, to ask for an immediate and urgent meeting, to redefine the rules of the Triton mission, addressing the issue of regionalization of relief, patiently, with the ability to listen to the reasons of others, and with the strong conviction of our reasons, as we did yesterday, when at some point it appeared on the news agencies that the Austrian Minister of Defence had threatened to deploy troops at the borders with our country. In the face of those statements we responded by saying basically three things. The first is that there was no emergency at the Brenner. The second is that the cooperation between the Italian-Austrian police forces was excellent. The third is that Italy and Austria had a long tradition of friendship and cooperation. Today the Chancellor of the Republic of Austria spoke on these issues, who said three things: there is no emergency in the Brenner; between Italy and Austria there is extraordinary cooperation between the police forces; the relations between Italy and Austria have always been marked by friendship and cooperation. I take note. I note quietly that maybe we were right. In this spirit, we are going to the informal summit of Ministers of the Interior of the European Union in Tallin tomorrow. In this spirit, we will be discussing the debate in Frontex in the next few days. I'm going to conclude. We are faced with a historic affair, which began many years ago, when perhaps the true original sin of this situation was committed, namely the 2003 Treaty of Dublin. It is a story that began many years ago that will probably accompany the world, not Italy, for yet more years. A great country like Italy does not suffer, it does not pursue. A great country like Italy must have the ambition to govern these processes, which are connatural, a piece of the history of the world, and not just part of this world. If anyone had any doubts, just look up from our problems for a moment and look at what is happening on the planet to understand what these words mean. If this is the theme, there are no magic formulas; we must speak a language of truth to the country; there are no reinforced simplifications. We need an organic vision, a strategy, a demanding one and a busy construction job. You see, illusion is an extraordinarily beautiful word. The illusion is affirmed quickly, but then, just as quickly, it can be reversed in its opposite, the disillusionment. Beware, and I say it first of all to myself: the wave of disillusionment is much stronger than the soft wind of illusion. But for me, just because I say this, there is one crucial point that is the following. I have said several times, in various parliamentary fora, that I think the equation between terrorism and immigration is wrong. However, if we look at the Europe of terrorist attacks, from Charlie Hebdo onwards, we have come across a clear relationship between terrorism and non-integration. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] If this is the issue, it must be said very clearly - as I say this evening in Parliament - that reception has a limit in its capacity for integration. As far as I'm concerned, it's an insurmountable limit. I feel personally committed to this: the Minister of the Interior cannot fail to understand that the present and future of our country are being played on this. Security is an extraordinary common good of all Italians. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] I'm done. I told you what I think. It may or may not be pleasing; it is the strength and together the beauty of democracy. However, let me tell you one last thing: on these issues you do not just play the game of consent. In democracy, the game of consensus is important, but it is not just that. On these issues we play something more, the holding of the connective tissue of our country. You play a piece of the future of our democracy. If that is the challenge, this Parliament, also in view of the international appointments of the next few days, has more reason to join and not to divide. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u79	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u80	Mr President, Minister, allow me first of all to join in the thanks you have expressed to our armed forces and to those who are working on such a difficult front. Allow me also to acknowledge that you have taken a political initiative inspired also by two related principles: the need for a great country to ensure the salvation of human life, but also its own security, which is why no great country, however large, can receive unlimited migratory flows. This is even more important because for too long our country has not had an initiative and the situation we are facing today is also the result of this lack. We thought we could solve the problem of immigration by failing to take an initiative, building large centres that could produce great economic and political induced, extending the time of the committees' exercise and waiting for a part of those who arrived in our country to leave. This is not a policy, and I recognise that there is a difference in relation to this next past. Mr Minister, there are, however, some contradictions, and perhaps we should talk about this and ask the Government for something. You told us that Libya is the problem. His colleague and predecessor, Minister Alfano, a few days ago, in a meeting with Qatar, said that the problem is not Libya. Perhaps we should admit that in that country we are reducing the failure of a Western policy that was first wanted by the previous American administration, and we should also admit that our position in Libya is not clear. We have focused on Serraj, a term authority, and we are in a situation in which the country is out of control, divided between Haftar on one side and Muslim Brotherhood on the other. This division reminds us a lot of what exists between Saudis and Egyptians on the one hand and Qatar on the other, but we do not know which side we are on. We do not know what our strategy is to achieve the stabilisation of that country that you told us to be essential to solving the problem. Can we ask the government who we're with? Can we ask whether the time has come to put an end to a diplomatic policy towards Egypt which is absolutely irresponsible? It's not the ethics of responsibility! We're still without an ambassador to Cairo. Mr Minister, you have set up a programme in which, as you have told us, political signals are very important. Allow me, then, finally and very quickly, because time is tyrant, to ask you whether it is true that, given its geographical size, we cannot ask Malta, which should intervene in many of these cases under the law of the sea, to carry out the task that is proper to it; if it would not be a signal, at the time when we take charge of much of this tragedy, to ask those ships that fly flags of other countries (there will be a minority, but there are) to enter the ports of those countries, rather than to give hospitality. Why is this not possible? It is a signal that would make it clear that the ethics of responsibility to which you referred must be an ethics of the responsibility of all, not an ethics of responsibility that applies only to our country. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Rizzotti]] Mr Minister, as we are talking about signs, there is one remark that I am really asking you in terms of doubt, hoping that that doubt that is mine may also be yours. But does it seem to you that, in such a situation, we are preparing for the adoption of a law like ius soli, which delegates to others a very personal right such as that of citizenship, which you, like me, know can be exercised only after the eighteenth year of age? Why should it be delegated to others, even the nearest relatives, when you referred to the risks of a lack of integration and to how many problems it has caused in the rest of Europe the fact that there have been young people who have not chosen their citizenship but have found it derived, and have we had terrorism linked to second or third generation immigration? [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Minister, I hope that Parliament can produce a united response. But then these doubts must not only be the doubts of one side, but the doubts of the whole hemicycle. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u81	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u82	Mr President, Minister Minniti, for at least four years you have been trying to make the country believe that Italian policy is able to influence European policy in terms of the management of migration flows. It's fake! On the closure of the Italian ports for the landings you have already suffered a dry no from Spain and France, from that Macron that would have contributed to the full understanding of Paris with the Merkel, that then it has jumped. From that Macron who reminded you that 80% of the migrants we welcome are economic, therefore illegal, as the League has always said! 7.15 p.m. (Follow Arrigoni). In Tallin you will discuss an action plan that is the result of some conclusions from the investigation of NGOs made in the Senate, carried out after the North League in February called the prosecutor Zuccaro on the Schengen Committee, where everything started. If it had not been for us it is likely that NGOs and SAR areas in Parliament would not have been discussed much longer. And even the 5 Star Movement would not have turned its 180-degree course on immigration policy. You will discuss in Tallinn the coordination centre in Libya (it will take months, if not years), the creation of rescue areas in Tunisia and Libya, codes of conduct for NGOs. He will bring home a few more millions, forgetting that we spend almost five billion euros this year. But I ask you: why is there no pressure on Malta to finally remedy their failure to transpose the IMO safe harbour directive? It is the only European country not to have proceeded with it, yet Malta, until a few hours ago, had the Presidency of the European Semester. So we will continue to be the only safe port in the Mediterranean. From the summit for the umpteenth time the government will bring home little, as happened in the European Councils of the last three years; as happened with the three pillars set out in the European Councils of 2015. I still remember Alfano talking about hotspots, repatriations and relocations. We suffered the hotspots; on return there was a failure, because you reset the Return Fund; the relocation failed too, but here the causes that you attributed to the selfishness of some countries of Europe were actually clear from the beginning and the League warned you. We have few migrants who actually need international protection: 80% are economic migrants, therefore illegal migrants; and today the European Asylum Office also says so. Yet you, in order to justify your failures, are always looking for a scapegoat: Europe or the international community. You will not get results from them; perhaps from some countries out of selfishness, but above all because most of them do not trust Italy for its permissive policy, without rigour, without deterency, sick of goodness and therefore hypocrisy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Minister, with the decree-law you proposed, you missed an opportunity, but we understand that you are a prisoner of your own majority. We could and should, for example, eliminate humanitarian protection (we are the only country to recognize it); increase the Return Fund; strengthen the tracing operations of irregular immigrants in our country: all proposals of the League that have been rejected. On the other hand, the majority still approved the repeal of the crime of illegal immigration; it said yes to a very serious agenda which provides for the reduction of the use of removal of migrants. That's the truth. In Italy there are too many factors of attraction that you, over time, have irresponsibly increased, and that attract economic migrants, therefore illegal. I still remember the reception system, which provides services for everyone, when we have 7.7 million Italians in a state of deprivation. There are long periods of time for the examination of asylum applications and few returnees; then there are the economic interests of cooperatives and private individuals, but also of organised crime, who want to feed on the host industry. There are NGOs, but above all there is the political will: a transversal majority in Parliament pro-immigration, which aims to welcome everyone and at all costs. Minister Minniti, go to Tallinn and deal with issues with Europe and the international community but - remember - take immediate action of internal politics; work to diminish the factors of attraction of our country; implement rigour and legality. More tracing; more land border controls; more active re-entry; more return; more capacity in detention centres for return. Increased detention times, as provided for in the Return Directive; eliminate humanitarian protection; do not admit asylum requests for manifest unfoundedness for those coming from safe countries. Mr Minister, apply these proposals; otherwise the invasion will continue even further; reduce the factors of internal attraction to govern and reduce illegal immigration: this is uncontrolled immigration that is not good, which is detrimental not only to the Italians, but also to regular non-EU citizens and the few refugees. Minister, reduce the attraction factors. Instead, what do your majority and government do? They want to introduce the ius solo, thinking of integrating and thus reducing the risk of terrorism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The League will not give up on the subject. Today we have tabled another motion to call for concrete action. One last thing about the reception system: Minister, give the real numbers on the reception system, which is out of control and is creating crazy problems for the country and the local communities. The data has been missing for two and a half months and in the daily dashboard on the site of his Ministry the data that are extracted, even if old, say that 50,000 presences are missing. Where are such presences? Answer our parliamentary questions; bring back some transparency, which is increasingly failing. He does not owe it to us in the Lega Nord Group, but he owes it above all to the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u84	Minister, I congratulate you personally because you are certainly someone who has passion and preparation and I hope that, by adjusting the shot a little, you will be able to bring some good results. Nevertheless, I believe that the shot should be partially adjusted, precisely, and I will explain why. With regard to landings, you said that we recorded a record in the last year: on the basis of the data that you yourself mentioned and that we have extrapolated from the Ministry of Interior, the number of asylum seekers and international protection has reached a total of 123,000 refugees, i.e. about 10,000 every month. Only in the three years 2014-2016 Italy has welcomed about 500,000 migrants on its shores, more than they have arrived in the last seventeen years. The 123,000 asylum seekers are mostly men (85 percent) and only 15 percent women, while 11,400 are underage. As far as nationality is concerned, we know that they come mainly from North Africa (Nigeria, Senegal, Gambia, Eritrea). At this point, we no longer believe that we can simply call emergency a phenomenon that, alas, is becoming stable. We can no longer, therefore, tackle these problems, which are structural, with answers valid only for emerging mechanisms. This means that we cannot just ask ourselves the questions of how many migrants will come and how many we need to feed or support. Of course, these are questions that need to be answered in the emergency, but that is not enough. You have to go further, you have to make the exact diagnosis to do proper therapy. So, what's the diagnosis? These migrants come to Europe, as we have said, coming mainly from North Africa, in part also from the Middle East: they are poor Christians fleeing from politically unstable countries; they flee from dictatorships, from serious situations, often from wars and persecutions. These subjects go to Europe in pursuit of a mirage, a light. The European Union is clearly in difficulty with this problem and, moreover, we have perhaps been somewhat superficial. Today the daily newspaper "Il Tempo" reports a beautiful intervention by Craxi who, to be honest, twenty-five years ago predicted what is happening, warning us that: the great social question of our time consists of the huge gap between the North and the South of the world. Here - in the South - migratory flows have begun which, in the absence of a development process that embraces the entire shore of the South of the Mediterranean, are destined to inflate in an impressive way and will be uncontrollable tendencies. This is what is happening: these people, oppressed and underdeveloped, are looking for possibilities for development in this Europe, certainties. All this stems from the frustration, insufficiency and poor construction of relations based on colonialism and post-colonialism of Western countries. My diagnosis in money, dear Minister, is this: there is a state of need, there is war, there is all the evil in the world; these people try to go away and to these needs respond to the crime that is organized to do business, to make profit - especially Libya - and brings them to us. NGOs, for good or for bad, eventually acted as taxis. This too - there is no doubt - must be checked. So all these contingent measures, such as the new hotspots and the increase in funds for Libya, come well, but they are just bits, they cannot be the answer, the real therapy for this diagnosis. What I would like to stress in my speech is what you have already said about what you called the third cornerstone, namely the problem of the southern border of Libya, the sub-Saharan border. It is true that the problem is all there and that is where we have to intervene. We must operate in those countries by directing all this money and this amount of effort that the European Community and Italy make towards these territories, also intervening on the issue of integration. We therefore hope, Minister, that tomorrow in Tallin, we can talk concretely not only about funds and contingent commitments of European countries, but also about radical solutions, strategic visions, political perspectives that allow our country to regain the leading role that political geography imposes on us. History requires us to be a leading country in this regard. Italy is immersed in the middle of the Mediterranean, I would like to remind you that not only the Kingdom of the two Sicilies already controlled the Mediterranean and the coasts of North Africa, but before that Rome controlled them. This is what we have to do, we cannot relegate our country to a role of paesucolo and make us say that we are ridiculous. We cannot be told that we are ridiculous, we must assert our culture, our civilization, our being a state. We must force the European Union and the international community to intervene with us, and if they do not, we will do so ourselves. So one becomes an authoritative state. We will do so on our own at the cost of withdrawing our economic participation in the European Community. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u85	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it must first be stressed that we are faced with a global issue, which calls into question the development policies of the West over the last 20 years and the responsibilities - both Italian and Community - towards a global migration phenomenon. Faced with these elements, a shared, clear and broad national vision would be essential. We are faced with one of the great themes of the history of this century: we accept the challenge, accepting the possibility of being unpopular in surveys but just towards a humanity that escapes from wars, desertification and poverty. A caustic Altan cartoon a few days ago had this caption: What are economic migrants? Those who are afraid to starve to death instead of bombs. Of course, migrating is not a right, but it is not even imaginable to close the door in the face of those seeking a place where they can survive dignifiedly. For too many years the African continent has been treated as a bottomless reserve by the countries of the so-called "First World." We have destroyed and polluted the soils for the extraction of oil, minerals and diamonds, exploited the workers, and fleets of trawlers in front of the Senegalese coasts leave very few possibilities to local fishermen who use small wooden boats to exploit the resources of the sea. This is just one example, just as in the coming years more and more people will be forced to leave their lands for the effects of climate change. However, the complexity of the problem should therefore be tackled sparingly with improvised statements. On the contrary, too many contribute to creating background noise. The stigma is today towards NGOs, ree of being a factor of attraction, a fact widely denied by the most recent data It is useful to recall that at the end of 2013 the Italian Government had courageously undertaken the Mare nostrum mission to carry out rescue operations at sea. In that context it was possible to have our police forces on board the Navy's ships, with an efficient sanitary garrison. As we know, Mare nostrum has been replaced by other operations, creating the conditions for the development of the garrison at sea by non-governmental organizations from various countries. Let us be clear: we have dealt with this issue in a disarray and impromptu way, giving the defence Commission the task of producing a strategy that would balance the presence of NGOs with that of forces at sea. There could only be a piecemeal proposal, such as the request to place police officers on board ships flying the foreign flag. I still have the curiosity to understand with which authority we can claim to have police officers on foreign soil, because this is what we are talking about when we refer to foreign ships in international waters. A very recent report by the Institute for International Policy Studies (ISPI) showed that only 7,277 asylum seekers from those who arrived in Italy were relocated to Europe on 27 June this year. This conflicts with Europe's commitment in 2015, which provided for the relocation of around 35,000 asylum seekers to other Member States by September 2017. Even if the European Union had maintained its commitment to relocations, it would have raised Italy only 10% of the total number of asylum applications from 2013 to today. Let us not, however, confine ourselves to data, but let us also think about the potential we have to solve the problem. Who, like myself, has had the opportunity to visit the Command in chief of the naval team (Cincnav) knows well what are the military and surveillance capabilities employed. Therefore, a possible positioning of the military ships less far from the limit of the Libyan territorial waters would be able to guarantee a greater control on what happens in the SAR operations, thus being able to avoid that armed scafisti continue to act almost undisturbed. Minister, I would like to remind you of another issue, concerning the made-in-China dinghies, which are still a real pool of relief workers close to the Libyan coasts. In this respect, I recall that more than a year ago I presented an agenda, taken up also by Vincent Cochetel, director of the European Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), which extends the blockade of trade also to maritime engines. In conclusion, in the light of what I have said so far, it should be clear to everyone that the problem is not at sea, but on land. Libya is a pulverized state, a country with 1,700 kilometers of coastline and over 4,000 kilometers of land border, with Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Niger, Sudan and Tunisia. None of these neighbouring countries are safe, but I am encouraged by the Government's commitment through development cooperation programmes. Finally, I recall that for 2017 Italy is also a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, a position from which to make our voice heard more forcefully to call for a global commitment on migrants, but above all the construction of humanitarian corridors to address the tragedy of refugees in the most endangered regions and to fight the traffickers of human beings, who do business with those fleeing from wars and famines. Next November we will also have the Presidency of the United Nations Security Council and I believe that this will be the right opportunity to raise the problem. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u86	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u87	Mr Minister, unfortunately the situation we are talking about is very serious, but it is even more serious to see how this House is disconnected from the world, from Italy, from the country. The subject we are dealing with is very serious and important, which is affecting and will affect the future of this nation, and yet you see what conditions this House is in. That's the most dismaying thing I've ever heard. I can understand the absence of senators during the course of technical and accounting discussions, but on a topic like this, which daily touches the lives of Italians, it is incredible the absence of senators or the presence, but engaged with an iPad or a mobile to navigate on Facebook or other. Now this is the common sport and it denotes how far you are from the country. Then we complain that Italians can't stand us. Minister, I'm sorry. I have always recognized in her uncommon abilities. I am the son of the First Republic, you of the Italian Communist Party, I of Christian Democracy. You are very capable, person you know and know, but we must realize that while the doctor studies, the sick person dies. The situation in the country - perhaps someone doesn't want to see it, but you certainly know it better than I do - is dramatic. My fear is that when outbreaks of disorder break out - some of them are already bursting, of all kinds and species, even among migrants themselves - we will not be able to control what is happening in a country that is also going through a more general crisis. And then something concrete to curb this anomalous and incredible wave towards Italy must be done. Let us not deceive ourselves that someone else will do it with us, Minister: they are demonstrating it and have already demonstrated it when they wanted to intervene for the Arab Springs; the French and English "yes" where they are now with the dramatic response of France that says: "our ports are closed"? And Spain has said the same, and I am sorry, Minister. On television, however, I saw a ship from the Spanish Civil Guard docking in an Italian port, which I don't know what it was. He has incredible all this: to the face of solidarity! Let me be clear, I am in favour of Europe, but I realize that we are alone. We made a mistake when we made the agreement with Turkey, everything froze and we did not think of this part. There is no longer a problem and we all have egoisms in Eastern Europe, which will not meet us, despite the enormous efforts you will make in Tallinn tomorrow. I realize that, but Germany and France must be clearer and more true. Italy cannot become the country where they come shopping, also economic and financial, because they can think of anything in putting us in crisis. It is not enough for us 100 or 200 million, they too must intervene and be clear. On the other hand, they must share them with their colonial empires - I am talking about France and Great Britain itself - of which they are paying the consequences today, since we have the second or third generation of terrorists. We must all reason on this, and I would like to say to everyone that these problems are not dealt with by ideologies or beliefs of origin. The problem is real and concrete and must be tackled seriously by Italy. Mr Minister, whatever you say, or we have the courage to deploy our ships to the limits of Libyan territorial waters, to patrol them so that they do not come here, or we will also be complicit in the deaths, because we are all helping. And others also help: these NGOs travel, do, catch and arrive in Italian ports. Who are they? Why? Is it possible that you can't connect all this? Is it possible that we cannot control all this, we who are victims of the problem? No one can accuse the Italian people of not having Christian charity and welcome. We have always given and had and we are ready to give them, but they cannot ask the Italian people to die, because they already have their own problems, for these abominable situations which seem to be of no interest to Europe at all. Even now you have had the results: we are at words, at 150 or at 60 million, but the problems are always ours. That's not possible, Minister. From Italian - not understood in the sense of dextroide or other - I ask that Italy raises the voice. We have always been the country of availability and dialogue, we come from a culture of this kind. Today is the moment when France and Germany understand that Italy has dried up, given and wants to give, but wants respect: if the others do not give us, they will not be able to receive it from us. Our weakening will favour other economic and financial policies of French and Germans on our territory and you know that this happens. I am wary of these people, because they always show solidarity in words and the next day in Ventimiglia they are all out! We know that there are few political refugees, that is. Either we stop the phenomenon with actions on the spot, in Libya - you are right - and not enough Serraj or the tribes, but also Haftar, or there is the overall agreement. Do they want to demonstrate their French, German and other goodwill? With the agreement of the two members, we can all go to Libya, right? We can make bigger contingents. After the troubles that have caused the French, when they intervene in other areas - there is much more from them - that often militarily still consider their colonies, because they have had the empire. To us, from our empire came Somalis and Ethiopians and we welcomed them. How many Ethiopians, Somalis or Eritreans are in Italy and are doctors? But it wasn't a problem, except to handle. Today it is not so, it is almost an invasion of every kind and species, which can cause serious trouble, and it is bringing them. My concern is the social cohesion of the country, which is already weakened by economic problems. Minister, more concrete and real action is needed: you have neither the preparation, nor the competence, nor the strength to affirm this. I believe that if Italy knew how to raise its voice and everyone abandoned the preconceived solutions, we would have real results and if we did not have them in a short time, the situation could become uncontrollable. I wish you good work. My criticism is constructive, it serves only this because I realize that in important moments we must be united. Of course, there is still the dismay of seeing this House almost deserted. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zeller. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u89	Madam President, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE supports the action of the Government and, in the first place, of Minister Minniti at European level. We need to be clear and determined because the situation has become truly unsustainable and the fine words we have heard so far are certainly no longer enough. It is not acceptable, nor compatible with the duties of partners of the European Union, for some States to escape their responsibilities, turning their backs and leaving Italy alone to be Europe's frontier. If we take responsibility for this, the other countries, particularly France, Spain and Austria, cannot be excluded from these responsibilities. In other words, any unilateral closure in the face of the need for coordination, sharing and joint control is bound to have a serious impact on the European Union itself. The problems can only be solved together, only together are migratory flows governed, the greater and more effective controls of the external borders and southern borders of Libya, the introduction of a code of conduct for NGOs in the Mediterranean, the strengthening of measures on return and, at the same time, the reallocation of migrants present on the territory of the European States. As the Italian Government has reiterated, such sharing is indispensable and if such sharing is not there, then also Italy will be forced to take unilateral measures, perhaps even extreme like the blockade of the ports, but we hope that it will not get to that. I would like to add this: the actions that have been threatened at the Brenner border, that is to say to deploy the army and the armored vehicles, are absolutely unjustified. There is no room for these measures and for these manifest behaviors, which are not justified even in view of the general elections. They are useless and harmful also for the climate of excellent collaboration between Italy and Austria precisely for the control of migratory flows. The results are clear: migration flows from Italy to Austria have not increased at all and the situation is perfectly under control also thanks to the commitment of the ministers of the interior, before Alfano and today Minniti. It should also be added that, in the state, the number of migrants coming from Austria to Italy is slightly higher than that going in the opposite direction so that what was being done at the Brenner border was absurd. And we are pleased that this was also realized by the Austrian Government, which confirmed the excellent cooperation with Italy and also the absolute lack of need for further and reinforced controls at the Brenner border, precisely because it is all quiet and there is no need for a blockade. We are therefore convinced that any further error and continuing inertia will diminish Europe's ability to be a unitary geopolitical subject. This would make migration flows less credible and less strong in the first place, the action plan proposed by the European Commission itself and unsustainable. We must therefore work towards a turning point, as Minister Minniti said, in the south of the Mediterranean, also with the creation of areas of relief and stay in Libya and Tunisia. The Single European Command Centre proposed by Italy remains a proposal that we consider essential that the Government, rightly, continues to support. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u90	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u91	Madam President, I shall be brief not only because our times are contingent. I am opening and closing parenthesis: I find it childish, as someone has done in this House, to put the Foreign Minister in opposition to the Minister of the Interior; it is really a play of the busts that I thought we had abandoned to asylum. This certainly does not honour those who, in the face of such a demanding debate, take the lead in setting small wedges of diversity that do not exist. Minister Minniti made two basic statements, we all heard them. The first concerns reception: he said that the limit of reception lies in our quality of integration. This is a very important statement, in my opinion, because I believe that we are at the limit of our reception. So if we continue to speak of welcome - as if we were still in a position to welcome, while those who have been welcomed in many cases suffer the prejudice of infamous living conditions - we make an escape from reality. The fact that the Minister of the Interior, the Government we support, has stated that the limit of reception means for him the decorum and integration of these people shows that the Government we support has clear ideas on this point. The Minister also said something else. Frankly this afternoon, when I came to listen to my friend, Minister Minniti, I was afraid. I confess to you that my faith has faltered, because I feared that Minniti would come here to explain the results (it would have been human if he had done so) of his diplomatic action with the other Ministers. He did not succumb to this temptation, because he spoke of "small steps" in the right direction (because it is clear that in this circumstance there would be no more that the small steps had gone in another direction). He spoke of small steps and I am also pleased with this proof of realism. There is no triumphalism, there could not be and trouble if there had been. Colleagues, the reality of things is very clear: we have Spain which has two countries in front of it, such as Morocco and Algeria, which control the departures, in the sense that from there we do not start or start to a limited extent. We have a country like Germany, which, when a tap was opened from Turkey, had a conversation with the Erdogan government, which we can criticize but certainly we must recognize that it exists and is strong. That government was in a position to close those taps. Then we have France, which thinks that Ventimiglia will hold the possible holes, despite the European professions - which I appreciated - of Macron in the electoral campaign, which we are waiting to see translated into reality. And who does Italy have in front of it? He has a non-state, because of a deranged action that was made and that we paid for. And whoever did that didn't even support the government that the UN installed, because he went to flirt with Haftar. We are therefore in a condition for which we are unarmed, because we have borders that look at a country that is a non-Country. Minister, when tomorrow he will go to the summit - and I have finished because we have understood each other, without having to go so long - I hope then that in one pocket - since he first pulled out a piece of paper - he will have the negotiation he has to make, but in the other he will have a plan B, because if tomorrow all that is the effort we ask will be limited to some extra money to give Libya or the countries of sub-Saharan Africa a plan B we will have to cultivate it. I do not believe that, for the purposes of international law, a blockade of ports is acceptable, but I believe that if NGOs close transponders - let us be clear - it means that things do not work. If one goes there to volunteer and save desperate people, he doesn't think about eliminating the possibility of being intercepted. So, why are they shutting them down? Because they obviously have a connection with the traffickers, as in the end the magistrates have denounced in the commendable investigation, which led our colleague and friend Senator Latorre. So, plan B has to consist of something. If an NGO flies the Spanish flag, it goes to the Balearic Islands or, if it flies the French flag, it goes to Corsica. Or, there may be something else, because it is not said that they should all arrive in Catania or Lampedusa: they can also arrive in Trieste (I quote Trieste, not to encourage or arouse concern in Friulan colleagues). Therefore we cannot be those who, because of their availability, accept that a condition is pre-constituted, which will lead to a disaster for our country. Minister, it seems to me that you have the very clear ideas and I fully agree with them, so I say good luck! [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD ePD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u92	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u93	Mr Minister, I must say that I am a little amazed at the approach you gave to your speech, because you have repeated that, in essence, things are not going so badly. You have in fact numbered the small but important steps that would have been taken in the last week. For God's sake, you did well to ask for a pre-vertex, but unfortunately things didn't go exactly as you described them. He assured us that Europe is moving towards that sharing of responsibility invoked by Italy, but trying to soften the pill, denying reality, is never a good idea. This may help to present a better situation to the public in the immediate future, but in our view it is a short-term strategy, which ends up making the situation worse on time. It is appropriate to be honest, Minister, and to admit that, on the European Union front, the pill is very bitter. Selfishness and small-cabotage calculations continue to prevail: nothing more than a European spirit! Let's say things as they are: the right demands of our country, in fact, have fallen into the void. Behind the fine words, compliments and promises there is nothing and I am afraid that there will be nothing in Tallinn either. The France of the new President, Macron, was one of the main leaders of the Libyan disaster, which we have taken part in, although I hear in this House that we do not know who bombed Libya. Looks like nobody did it here. Maybe it was me or Senator Mineo... [[Laughter]] It is not clear, even as assuming responsibility. France has responded by reaffirming its complete unwillingness, Spain has been a little more polite in ways, but not in substance, and Austria, after the protests of Italy, has today spoken of misunderstanding and has assured that its tanks will remain in barracks, if migratory flows will not increase. There was no need to say more: the signal was however unequivocal. In the European Commission's plan there are those who in Rome, my city, are called "hot cloths": an appropriation that would be exaggerated to define reasonable. You know perfectly well, Minister: there is no real pressure to force the hand of the many European countries, who do not want to take any responsibility. It's not the ethics of responsibility! In the background there is only the promise, as always vain and vague, that it will not be kept even this time, to revise the Treaty of Dublin. As you know, Minister, even if you did not mention him, this is a step that should have been necessary and that should have been taken a long time ago, because he is the only one that would allow us to deal more adequately and better with the situation, but that is made impossible above all by the veto of the countries of Eastern Europe. Faced with this yet another political failure, in the end Europe and Italy have found - and I am sorry - nothing better than to present, as you did here, the result on the NGOs, which we interpret. I, like many of my colleagues, participated in the hearings in the Defence Committee (not in the vote because we are not present in the Commission): the meaning of the hearings and also the result were not exactly what you came to represent here. The decision was to cover the usual nothing in fact, with a grip on who in these years more than any other has worked to save human lives. But it couldn't, let me tell you, be made a more cynical choice. It should be made clear that this move decided only to hide the ignorance of Europe and even our impotence will not be at no cost: migrants will pay for it and many will pay for it with their lives. Many others, the luckiest, will remain at the mercy of the Libyan forces, which have never shone out of respect for human rights - which you have briefly quoted - and even less will respect those rights today, in the absence of a true Libyan state. To establish that NGOs' ships cannot even approach Libyan territorial waters, to prohibit the transhipment of refugees on Frontex ships, to ban NGO ships from reporting their presence means, I believe, endangering many human lives. We must call things by their name and not hide reality behind anonymous formulas as a new code for NGOs. Moreover, it would be enough to listen to anyone who really deals with the aid to migrants to avoid any doubt as to what the new rules will lead to. The political sense of all these choices, which try to present loudly on the media level, but which are useless and often counterproductive on the concrete one, will be evident shortly. Faced with the pressure of anti-European movements, the Union and the individual countries that are part of it try to shelter themselves, taking as their own some of the worst arguments of those anti-European forces. It is a strategy that will not work, from any point of view, because giving up on the ground of values and even on that of safeguarding life is not a bulwark, it is a surrender. Instead, the bulwark is to maintain, defend and strengthen the principles of solidarity and acceptance. It means creating humanitarian corridors, guaranteeing protection for children, demanding from Europe that collective assumption of responsibility that would make the migratory flow completely tolerable for all, through the ethic of responsibility that is typical of Protestant culture and religion. And look, right here, in this country, are precisely the Waldensian Table and the Evangelical Churches that are proving, with the humanitarian corridors that you should know, to do something really working and concrete. Finally, I believe that we must be very careful about the tones that are used and that those who govern have a duty to weigh words more than anyone else. The threat of closing Italian ports clearly had the aim of exerting pressure, but unfortunately it has proved useless on the other European countries. But in Italy this has also contributed to alimenting fears and phobias that, on the contrary, those who govern have the duty to contain and remove. The offensive against the NGOs that are being prepared will have the same effect, multiplied. We are certainly faced with a difficult situation, determined more by the selfishness of Europe than by the migratory flow. But we are not faced with any huge invasion. We cannot continue to feed the idea of the invasion. In Africa, of course, there is a huge exodus of people fleeing war, hunger and famine, but the figures clarify the real dimensions of the phenomenon: only one fifth of this mass exodus is heading towards Europe, and only 2.5% of those moving towards Europe do so through Italy. It does not mean that we have to close our eyes, but we absolutely must avoid chasing the xenophobic forces on their soil and fousing the social alarm, because this will not help to solve anything; it will only make everything much more barbaric and we too a little more barbaric. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u94	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u95	Minister Minniti, you have come today to tell us about an immigration emergency that Italians know very well, because they count us every day. But you're talking about it as if you and your government had settled in today. But, Minister, your attempt does not work because those responsible for this emergency have a name and a surname. In the years when the migratory pressure on Italy became unsustainable, the Government had the PD of Matteo Renzi and now that of Gentiloni Silveri. At the Ministry of the Interior there was the ineffable Angelino Alfano, today in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and now there is you. For months you have led the country to believe that the government was facing this emergency, but the numbers deny it resoundingly: in 2016 on the Italian coast has arrived a record number of irregular immigrants (over 181,000), with an increase of 18 percent compared to 2015. In two days 12,000 people arrived. European Union Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos said, like Macron, that 80% of those arriving in Italy are irregular i.e. immigrants to be returned and not war refugees or persecuted fleeing dictatorships. These data certify the failure of the Renzi Government, of the PD that supported it and of its Government, Minister Minniti, above all, the failure of an idea of a Europe of solidarity, which has been miserably broken on the barriers that have raised countries such as France, Spain, Austria, our neighbours. For months you have accused the 5 Star Movement of populism, even in certain cases of racism, just because we dared to propose solutions of common sense, which you have tried to ascribed to an ideology, sometimes left, sometimes right, and then have to recognize that our proposals were obviously sensible, to the point that you have made them today and even go to present them in Europe. Let us see these proposals. Since 2014, the 5 Star Movement has called for the revision of the Dublin III agreements and the redistribution of quotas for migrants in other countries, sanctioning non-cooperative Member States. Today you ask, too. But I wonder: who signed the Dublin III agreements, Minister? Secondly, we have asked to review Triton, the operation that authorizes ships from 15 European states to collect and bring migrants only to Italy. Now we find that you yourself, Minister, would even have written a letter to Frontex asking for Triton's review. But, Minister, you signed the agreement you're asking for the change. Moreover, in recent days the former minister Emma Bonino has declared that Italy, with the PD to the Government, has decided to welcome all immigrants. We ask you: under what agreements, since such a thing has never been ratified by the Italian Parliament? The 5 Star Movement first launched the alarm on migrant rescue operations by some international non-governmental organizations. We did this by giving voice to the alarm launched by a Republic Attorney. We have proposed to close our ports to those NGOs which do not have transparent budgets and which often fly the flag of countries with tax havens. You accused us of incompetence and then, after a few months, you yourself threatened Europe by saying that you would close the ports to NGOs and boats that do not respect the rules, calling for regulation for these organisations. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] We have tabled a bill to allow prosecutors to carry out investigations at sea and, above all, on NGOs' ships. And what do you come to tell us today? That NGOs' ships operating in the Mediterranean must coordinate with the activities of the judicial police. All right, Minister! Welcome to this point! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Too bad, though, that it was Europe that actually slammed the door in our face to ruin the party. This government has no credibility and no authority in Europe. We are forced to rejoice for some of Europe's alms, because this is what it is: the 35 million euros are an oboleum with which Europe washes its conscience; 35 million euros compared to the 4.5 billion euros that costs the reception in our country in a year. We are talking, Minister, only of the 0.3% of the 10 billion that Europe - and therefore Italy - has given to Turkey in order to protect Germany from migratory flows. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] By the way, those 10 billion have further aggravated the load on the Mediterranean route and therefore the inflows into our country. This money, as well as the closed borders of France and Spain and the threat of the army on the Brenner border, is a slap in the face of our country, a mockery that a serious and authoritative government should not accept. Gentiloni Silveri, on the other hand, "appreciates." But how do you appreciate it? These 35 million are really crumbs. Trafficking in human beings is a must for those who want to feed the welcome business and for all those who, thanks to the complicity of a good part of politics, benefit from migratory emergencies. This situation is unsustainable and intolerable and the responsibility lies with you and this Government. We must change step, Minister, in Italy and above all in Europe. Otherwise, the risk will be to plunge our country into what seems increasingly to be an authentic social powder keg. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u96	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Minister Minniti for having acknowledged to this House and, in particular, to the Defence Commission, the work done with this survey which, I would like to remind you, was also caused by our request. I, with Senators Gasparri and Alicata, have asked President Latorre for the opportunity to carry out this investigation; we were allowed to do so and it seems to me that the Government was also in agreement. And it seems to me that the investigation has led to some conclusions, so much so that you have told us that they are the basis of the document with which we worked in Paris and that, probably, they could also be the basis for joint work with Europe. I would like to start with the end of your speech, Minister. You said: 'The reception has a limit in the integration capacity; a limit in my opinion insurmountable'. I remind you that in an important hearing in the Chamber of Deputies, in the beginning of your Ministry, you also added another concept: that the reception had, and in your opinion, a limit in the sensitivity of the country. You will remember these words. I appreciated this passage, because there is not only a problem of limit to the ability to integrate, but there is a limit that lies in the sensitivity of our country. In fact, you continued today in your speech saying that the holding of the connective tissue of our country is at stake. This is an important sentence, because it means that something is happening in our country, so there is a risk that the connective tissue of our cities, our families and our squares will no longer hold. It is at stake - she said - a piece of the future of our democracy. And this, Minister, let me say, as a representative of the centre-right, spoken by a representative of the centre-left, I think it is an acquired fact, an important point of arrival and also a beginning of discussion on which perhaps we can begin to open a relationship and a collaboration table. I would also like to say to my colleagues that I do not know if they have noticed anything else that you have said between the lines, in the elegant and somewhat calligraphic way that distinguishes you. Minister Minniti said to all of us: beware, the world of unregulated immigration has changed. Until two years ago, on the Balkan route there was an immigration of refugees and asylum seekers who came from war zones; today, we are facing economic migrants. The push factor that is being born, which was born in the countries of the sub-Saharan belt has been totally and completely replaced by that of refugees, families and those fleeing from the wars of Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. That phenomenon no longer exists. The Balkan route has dried up and not only because Turkey holds three million Syrian refugees. Moreover, of those three million, Minister, perhaps you know that 500,000 have already returned to Syria. There are three million people who do not want to come to Europe, except to escape the war, but they just want to return to their countries: because that is their country, that is their history, those are their traditions. Europe has allocated 3 billion and has allowed Turkey to keep them and to make them survive in fields that are certainly more decent than those in Libya. But that was a phenomenon, while today we are facing a totally different phenomenon: there is the South of the world that wants to come to Europe, that is trying to push towards us, and there is unfortunately - we said this with Senator Latorre in the investigation that we carried out - a pull factor, a factor of attraction. Minister, you spoke today, in the beginning of intervention, of twenty-four ships at the limit of territorial waters to collect those who were to be saved, but because of the very fact that they were there, that was nevertheless a factor of attraction for those fleeing from the Libyan beaches. Minister, you today in your speech, precisely in the distinction you wanted to make, you also said that there is a problem of relocation, but it is incorrect as a definition for economic migrants. In 2015, the European Council spoke of relocation, but it did so with a document in which it was finally said that relocation could take place, according to certain quantities, on the basis of a defined threshold of 75%, which was the statistical average of the reception of asylum applications compared to the countries from which it fled; and if that threshold was not exceeded, relocations were not allowed. But only refugees, only asylum seekers, were spoken of precisely. The phenomenon we are dealing with today is totally different: we are talking about economic migrants. What did Macron tell us? If we are talking about asylum seekers, we are also willing to extend quotas, but you have economic migrants; you have another phenomenon and we are not willing to accept them. So, I repeat, the world has changed and with this dramatic change we are dealing with. So what's the therapy? Minister, I have heard you in the House as well as in the Senate today - forgive me if I have been a little meticulous - and I was pleased to hear a sentence you did not say to the House, but perhaps it was more right to do so here: you also said that people who are being saved could be brought back to Libya. This means that even our Government begins to think that there may be the possibility of intercepting those who sail - forgive me: we might also avoid them leaving, but we also admit that they can sail - and, in collaboration with the local authorities (not better defined, because we all know that we do not have a single Libyan coastguard, but three), we could accompany back, as in ten thousand cases happened, those who left, without sinking, without drowning, without dying a few hundred meters from the Libyan coasts. This means that for this Government - and this is also a question, but we will have time to talk about it and discuss it - the only plan B - there is no longer President Casini, but to this I imagine alludes - possible and imaginable to solve the problem of economic migrants is that they do not leave. You can no longer start from the Libyan coasts. If it is true what Cochetel says, namely that there are 295,000 people in Libya who are waiting to embark in the coming weeks, not in the coming years, do you think it is ever admissible that in our country, in one way or another, 295,000 people who come to Italy and Europe only because of an economic problem, just because the South of the world is pressing on the North of the world? It means that we need to activate a different mechanism. And here the Italian government must have the courage - the Italian governments are not used to having courage in foreign policy and are not accustomed to using the military instrument, which costs 30 billion a year and which perhaps would be worth using where there was a need for it - to use the military instrument, that military pressure that we know. There's no need to shoot, but to cooperate, coordinate, and -- can I use a word in quotes? - "reject" those who would like to come to our country. One last notation on refugee camps. In Libya, says Cochetel, there seems to be thirty-five - I didn't know it, it's news I've learned these days, but perhaps the government knew it - and twenty-seven of these camps have allowed access to UNHCR. It means that they are not controlled by international organisations, but are in a position to receive visits from international organisations. Then, it means that there are fields that could be strengthened, some are even under the control of the Serraj Government that, as far as I know, was refugee in the port of Tripoli. Perhaps, on the other hand, it can also have a minimum opening. Perhaps that MOU (Memorandum of understanding) that you, Minister, have done with the Government Serraj can also understand the control, access, the most accurate and timely information about what happens. So, there are refugee camps, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have twice the time; it's ten minutes. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I'll finish right away. Then it means that those 295,000 people who risk coming to Italy can be put in a position to stay where they are now, in better conditions thanks to international organizations, thanks also to our collaboration. I will really end by saying perhaps something that not everyone knows. In Mosul, as you know, they are conquering the ancient citadel: it is a few hundred square meters now. Do you know that around the walls of that citadel are the French and British special bodies? What do you think they do? They intercept foreign fighters. The term "interception" includes any kind of meaning in a modern war: it means that these two great countries - how great ours is - put themselves in a position to prevent these criminals from returning to their countries of origin. Well, Minister, perhaps a few thoughts on this, in order to prevent some criminals from going too far, getting agitated and doing their dirty business on the Libyan territory, it would be worth it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u97	Senator Latorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u98	Mr Minister, first of all, allow me to thank you not only for the work you have been doing over the last few months, but also for having considered it necessary to come to the Houses to carry out this information, bearing witness to Parliament's consideration; this value, which, at this time, has a special significance. As you pointed out, we are faced with a phenomenon of epochal significance. I am quite frankly impressed, very often, by the simplistic nature with which we are dealing with a subject that has a huge scope. They taught me that one of the fundamental ingredients for deciphering even deep phenomena is the knowledge of two elements: demography and geography. Demography tells us that the population growth forecast in the coming years, until 2050, will be about 4 billion, half of which will all be concentrated in Africa. Therefore, this phenomenon, with which we - not Italy but we worlds - must get used to dealing in the coming years, must be tackled without foolish simplifications and well knowing that the solution of the migration crisis is not around the corner. We must have this awareness and the approach that you have proposed to us, with the breakthrough that has been introduced with this approach, that is, to move from confronting this issue in an emerging key to measuring itself in a strategic key, is the fundamental step in order to be able to measure us in the best possible way with this phenomenon. The ingredients of this strategic perspective - you described them in your communication - are many and everyone must be in tune with each other, starting from an initiative that assumes the theme of the stabilisation of Libya as a central asset. In this sense, dear fellow Romans, you know how much I think of your considerations, but we have made a choice: that of making the Libyan people the protagonist of this process, so to avoid betting on those mistakes that we have made in the past and that have produced the situation with which we are dealing, providing, of course, also the commitment of military energies to support a stabilisation action, a training and training action, as is basically being done. The theme of Libya therefore becomes central, through a series of passages, described here in the communications of Minister Minniti, such as that of a job that does not renounce the absolute need to save human lives, an indispensable principle, that of proceeding to policies of management of migratory flows that welcome those who are entitled to be welcomed and, guaranteeing respect for the rights of people, produce the repatriation of those who are not entitled to the reception. They are all ingredients and in this framework the role of non-governmental organisations is also placed: or their role is part of a strategic activity of this nature and therefore it is functional to manage the phenomenon as a whole, otherwise I am amazed by the statements of some NGO representatives, because in no part of the world where NGOs operate and have a fundamental role can act in conflict, in this case with the country that indicates the strategic perspective within which it is located. In this context, the theme is to make the whole of the issues manageable and, at this stage, to say that I can make manageable a peculiarity with which we are dealing in these days, which is not only the quantitative dimension of the phenomenon, but also the aspect of its temporality: only in one weekend 12,000 people have arrived and come every day and this puts to the test not only the ability to resettle, redefin and govern these quantities, but even the work of our Forces of Order, which, as you know, in every situation of this type must certify the health aspect, they must identify the individuals and they must start those procedures that must then, as a matter of fact, be followed in order to manage the situation in terms that have been described above. This is the subject before us, and in this context it is clear that everything must be combined with an indispensable battle against death traffickers. I call them that because such are those who are managing this traffic, for the way in which it happens, because they carry out real executions capital at every departure from those coasts. Everything must therefore be kept and the crucial theme is to keep all this together with the integration policies, taking advantage, moreover, of the failure of the integration policies that other countries have led (I think of France or Great Britain), so we must also define a new model of integration, becoming almost a laboratory country from this point of view. Everything must be kept and where one of these ingredients fails, there is no balance that is the only way to deal with this problem and to ensure the maintenance of democracy, the principles of security, the protection of human dignity. If one of these ingredients doesn't work, we inevitably get into trouble. The work that we are doing and that you are doing, Minister, and that we feel we can say that we intend to support, by continuing this relationship between Parliament and the Executive, which also becomes a fundamental ingredient of this work, goes in this direction. Europe, as the President of the Council said, has turned its back on us in recent years. This initiative is not yet leading to a radical change in European attitudes, however, while until yesterday the doors were slammed into our faces, now they are beginning to open. Let us be careful not to neglect the very small and insufficient steps forward that are being taken from this point of view, because it is on those that we then have to build the new phase of our initiative and that of tomorrow, in Tallin, it is an informal meeting (it is worth remembering), that is, an opportunity to deepen this discussion and also to prepare to create additional conditions for from words to actions. It will be important, dear Minister, if tomorrow and the day after tomorrow you can count on the unity of Parliament, because this will give the strength to carry this initiative forward and achieve objectives. If, on the other hand, the tendency to exasperate the political controversy prevails here, with the shortsighted aim of collecting some more consensus, I fear that the result will be negative for the country. So, Minister, in this spirit, not only do we encourage you to move forward, but you will be able to count on our support tomorrow. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u99	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the Interior, whom I thank for his willingness. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many requests to speak at the end of the sitting. Given the progress of the work, if there is no urgency, I would send them back to tomorrow; it would be the best thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-852.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, July 6, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20:27.
