ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 19 October. This week, after the examination of the bill on small municipalities, the Assembly will discuss the motions on the candidacy of Milan to headquarters of the European Agency of the drug and the bill on the Italian language of signs. Tomorrow afternoon the planned inspection union session will not take place. The Assembly will meet again next week, starting with the afternoon sitting on Tuesday, 3 October. In the afternoon session of Wednesday 4 October, for which no closing hours are scheduled, the Update Note to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document will be discussed. During the afternoon session of the same day, the Senate's second resolution on the draft Constitutional Law on the Ladin linguistic minority is scheduled. The calendar also includes ratifications of international agreements and the draft European law 2017, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. In the afternoon session on Tuesday 10 October, beginning at 11 am, the motions on the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus and on the application of the Bolkestein directive will be discussed. The calendar of the week from 10 to 12 October provides - where concluded by the Commissions - the draft law amending the bankruptcy law, on orphans of domestic crimes and on reports of offences or irregularities in public or private work. The motions on the Oviedo Convention will be discussed at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday, October 17, after any unfinished motions have been followed. At the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 18 October, beginning at 4 p.m. and without closing hours, the President of the Council of Ministers will make his communications with a view to the European Council on 19 and 20 October. The calendar of the week also includes the draft law on Mediterranean diet, the ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages, and - where concluded in the Commission - the draft laws on early treatment provisions, disposal of sludge in agriculture, protected areas and compensation for non-capital damage. The resignation of Senators Manassero and Vacciano and the bill on the provision of Internet services will also be discussed. In the afternoon of Thursday 19 October the Assembly will not hold session, therefore the inspection union will take place in the afternoon session of 19 October, beginning at 9.30 a.m. The Conference of the Leaders finally established that on 24 October and 5 December, respectively, the figures of former senators Guido Rossi and Enzo Bettiza will be commemorated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Article 53 of the Regulation - the following additions to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2017: - Drawing of Constitutional Law n. 2643-B - Amendments to the special statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol in the matter of the protection of the Ladin linguistic minority (Second Resolution of the Senate) (final vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of Law n. 2719 and related - Amendments to the Civil Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and other provisions in favour of orphans for domestic crimes (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of European Law n. 2208 and connected - Provisions for the protection of authors of reports of offences or irregularities of which have come to knowledge in the context of a public or private work relationship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies and related to the Chambers of the Civil Law n.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u6	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 19 October 2017: [[Wednesday, September 27 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to the bill n. 2541 - Small Municipalities (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Thursday 28 " ant. h. 9,30-14 - Motions on the candidacy of Milan to seat of the European Agency of the drug - Drawing of law n. 302 and related - Italian language of the signs]] [[Tuesday, October 3, pom. h. 16.30-20 - Possible follow-up of unfinished arguments - Doc. LVII, n. 5-a - Update note to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document (Wednesday 4, ant.) (*) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 2643-B - Changes to the special statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol on the protection of the Ladin linguistic minority (Second Resolution of the Senate) (final vote by absolute majority of the members of the Senate) (Wednesday 4, pm.) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Drawing of law n. 2886 - European Law 2017 (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 4 " ant. h. 9,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 5 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] (*) Motions for resolutions on the Update Note to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document will have to be tabled before the conclusion of the general discussion, the amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government within one hour of the opinion's expression. Amendments to draft law No 2886 (European Law 2017) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 28 September. [[Tuesday 10 October ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus - Motions on the application of the Bolkestein directive Tuesday 10 October pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following any unfinished drafts of law - Drawing of law n. 2681 and related - Amendments to bankruptcy law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2719 and related - Orphans of domestic crimes (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2208 and related - Reporting of offences or irregularities in public or private work (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 12 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The time limits for tabling amendments to bill No 2681 and related (Amendments to bankruptcy law), No 2719 and related (Orphans of domestic crimes) and No 2208 and related (Reports of offences or irregularities in public or private work) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 17 October ant. h. 11-13 - Eventually followed motions not concluded - Motions on the Oviedo Convention Tuesday, October 17 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Any unfinished drafts of law - Drawing of law n. 313 and connected - Mediterranean Diet - Drawing of law n. 560 and related - Ratification of the European Charter regional or minority languages - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 19 and 20 October 2017 (Wednesday 18, p.) - Drawing of law n. 2801 and related - Advanced provisions of treatment (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2323 - Delegation of sludge disposal in agriculture (final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 119-1004-1034-1931-2012-B - Protected areas (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2755 - Compensation of non-capital damage (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Resignation of the Senators Manassero and Vacciano (Secret ballot) - Drawing of law n. 2484 - Provision of Internet services (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16 Thursday 19 October ant. 9.30 a.m. - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft laws No 313 and related (Mediterranean Diet) and No 560 and related (European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 12 October. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 2801 and related (anticipated treatment provisions), No 2323 (Delegate sludge disposal in agriculture), No 119-1004-1034-1931-2012-B (Protected areas) and No 2755 (Non-capital damage compensation) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, n. 5-a (Note of update to the 2017 Economy and Finance Document) (5 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 36' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 18' Mixed 17' AP-CpE-NCD 15' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 13' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 13' Art. 1-MDP 13' ALA-SCCLP 12' LN-Aut 12' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 11' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2886 (European Law 2017) (5 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 hours, of which: PD 48' FI-PdL XVII 27' M5S 24' Mixed 23' AP-CpE-NCD 20' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 18' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 17' Art. 1-MDP 17' ALA-SCLP 16' LN-Aut 15' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 19 and 20 October 2017 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 36' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 18' Mixed 17' AP-CpE-NCD 15' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 13' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 13' Art. 1-MDP 13' ALA-SCCLP 12' LN-Aut 12' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 11' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u9	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, for the umpteenth time I find myself obliged, in this House as well as in the Conference of Leaders, to re-focus on a matter which is being discussed very much outside the Chamber; there are even calls from members of the Government; in this House and in the Conference of Leaders, music is very different. I'm talking exactly about the citizenship measure, I'm talking about it alone. At the Conference of Leaders we asked - and this is not the first time - to be able to include it immediately after the approval of the Update Note to the DEF and, among other things, it seems absolutely possible to include it again in the calendar. In the face of all this, as you know having participated in the Conference of Leaders, the Leader of the Democratic Party was opposed to the idea that a solution had to be found to find the numbers to approve it. In submitting this matter to the House, I once again allow myself to propose a reasoning which, at this point in the matter, I believe must be done. It has been weeks, months, and as has been seen in this period of time the operation of postponing the examination of the aforementioned provision has not produced anything positive and again in the majority or government groups. Instead, this eternal postponement has even given the possibility to continue to do operations of manipulation of public opinion with which the bill on citizenship is constantly confused with the question of landings and more general immigration, as if the ius soli meant giving citizenship to all those who land in our country. Precisely because all this has happened, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to proceed, not just because it is a measure of its own right, of civilization. All these boys were born in Italy, they speak Italian and often not only are already integrated, but they have the aspiration and feel deeply in their Italian hearts and sincerely devoted to our Constitution. But as well as being just in itself for a matter of civilization and justice, we believe that it is an antidote - let's call it that - to the poisons that are now - alas - contaminating the country's feeling through the spread of xenophobic opinions and feelings. To approve the ius soli and discuss it in this House (for this reason we are asking for a timetable) would finally make things clear, say things as they are and bring the truth of the facts back on the legal instrument that we are putting in place. I think it is necessary, at this stage in the history of the country, to put in the field of antidotes and with regard to the votes we must work, of course. Of course, I am obliged to say that agreements have been reached with Alfano on everything, perhaps also on the electoral law and - as a matter of fact - everything has entered into the negotiations less than a positive measure like this. That is why I think the time has come and I ask this House once again to give its opinion. We call for this measure to be included in the timetable immediately after the approval of the Update Note. I believe that this would be absolutely necessary and important. Above all, let us not hide behind the issue of numbers. I am convinced, in fact, that just as we reaffirm our willingness even to vote for confidence, I believe that there are still so many men and women, senators and senators of good will in this House who, apart from the declarations of their party secretaries, are willing to do an act of justice to all these boys and girls who - I repeat - feel and are deeply Italian. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u12	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I should like briefly to ask for a change to the timetable. At the Conference of the Leaders they asked to schedule a motion that we had already announced in the previous Conference of the Leaders, the 1-00828 at the first signature of Senator Crimes, which aims to avert the confirmation of the Governor of the Bank of Italy in office, Ignazio Visco. That is why I believe that this is an act of direction which cannot be procrastinated for obvious reasons: we are talking about a confirmation that is the subject of debate now. In a month's time, of course, it would be pointless for Parliament to discuss such an act of direction. I believe that this issue is extremely urgent not only because of all the news we know, but also because of all the bank cracs which this House and the whole of Parliament have had to intervene from the pockets of the citizens tens of billions of euros. This alone would be sufficient to define the measure of the effectiveness of the controls carried out by the institution which should primarily carry out the verification activity on the banking system and the protection of savings and savers. Today this information has also been added to further indiscretions related to communications to and from the People's Bank of Vicenza and the Bank of Italy, which would testify that since 2012 the Bank of Italy was aware of the huge scandal of the so-called kissed operations that involved about a billion euros of bank resources and that, in fact, caused its bankruptcy. Well, this was a scandal that could have been raised even in 2012 if not before and this, clearly, is not consistent with the statements of the representatives of the Bank of Italy themselves that would have become aware of this de facto violation of rules only following the ECB's inspections. Mr President, the request for the calendarization of this motion is particularly significant, given that, at the Conference of the Leaders, President Zanda attended the request for the calendarization of the motion on foie gras, by other Groups on the problem of the statues of Christopher Columbus, by Senator D'Alì on the commemoration of the menopause, which is planned in the coming weeks, and finally also on the EMA in Milan, on which I ask you whether we can really consider that there is a representative of the citizens here in Parliament expressing an opinion contrary to the transfer of the EMA to the City of Milan. The City of Milan, the Government of the country, through the President of the Council, and the Lombardy Region have already spoken favorably; should we stay here and discuss this? Here, it seems to me that they are all attempts to fill the spaces of democratic debate within Parliament and in this way to deprive it of the time necessary to address issues that are truly important and urgent, such as the discussion of the Senate Act 2888 ('Provisions on the abolition of the vitality and new discipline of pension treatment of Members of Parliament and Regional Councillors') which has already had a large majority in the other House, but which encounters a deafening silence by representatives of all the Groups within the Senate at the Conference of the Leaders, being the 5 Star Movement the only Group present at this time in the Senate of the Republic that, in some way, tries to make it calendarized. Therefore, Mr President, the demands of the 5 Star Movement are the immediate calendarization of the Senate Act 2888 (the provisions on the abolition of the vitality and new rules on pension treatment of Members of Parliament and Regional Councillors) and of course, in the first session available for the discussion of motions, the calendarization of motion No 828 against the confirmation of the Governor of the Bank of Italy in office, Ignazio Visco. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u15	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I would immediately like to make my request, which Mr De Petris has already made, and which is to include in the timetable the draft law on ius soli, at any time and as a matter of urgency. I also agree with the proposal to include it after the discussion of the Update Note to the DEF. I would like to make a comment in support of this request, which has already been made by my Group at the Conference of Leaders, and which is therefore not new to anyone. I have always considered Parliament as the place of debate and decision. Today, as a Member of Parliament, I live with a certain embarrassment that the first ranks, but also the second and third, of the political parties make nothing but statements on the ius soli and the ius culturae. So we learn that it is a wrong law, indeed no, that it is a right law, but that this is not the time, that we are looking for votes, that we want it, that we do not want it. I wonder how politics can be credible when it behaves in this way, that is, when it escapes from the places of responsibility and decisions and takes refuge in places where ideas and things that are said and decided here should be amplified, but that should not be substitute places, where the shocks are paraded and where we wink at this world, which instead here they disown themselves and are continually offended. I personally gave up the idea of completing the Commission's work, being the rapporteur for this measure, thinking that it was taken seriously when it was decided to bring the measure to the House without whether or not it was done, that is, irrespective of the Commission's work. I'm very disappointed in how things are going. It is already three times - of course at this moment I am speaking personally - that I do not vote for the government and I am tired of hearing members of the government giving judgements, positive or negative (even positive ones are tired), while then, when you get in here, you ignore the topic and you do not discuss it. And when you collect the votes and you say you're doing a vote check, I don't know what mechanism you're looking for. At some point we will have to vote and everyone will be in front of their conscience and responsibility. This is the only method I know of: to debate in this House and vote. If there is anyone who thinks that in the end we can not vote on the measure and that we can escape from the place of responsibility, which is this House, in order to be able to say in the electoral campaign that we agreed and that someone did not agree, I say that this is an irresponsible way of proceeding. Instead, I would expect this House to assume its responsibility, voting today on the proposal of Senator De Petris, to which I agree (so let us make the same proposal). Everyone in the Group of the European People's Party is responsible for deciding whether this measure is going seriously or whether it is still being said in the newspapers that it is going on, but then it is stuck in this House. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u18	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, on the matter known to everyone of the eviction of Grandma Peppina, the League presented this morning in the Senate a proposal for a law, the Senate Act 2919, which we request as soon as possible to be calendarized. With regard to the eviction of the executive from his wooden house considered irregular, if it will be rejected in the next hours the application of the review, is previewed for next Saturday the eviction, while its demolition is previewed by the middle of December. After having lived for months in a container, with temperatures in summer of over forty degrees, grandmother Peppina, who - I remember - is ninety-five years old, with determination he built this prefabricated house in land owned thanks to his daughters and son-in-law, after the earthquake last year made his house unusable. In the village of San Martino in the municipality of Fiastra, in Maceratese, the lady grew up and has everything: her knowledge, her garden, her memories. And here, determined, he wants to live on. Our proposal, filed this morning, is very simple and provides for the compatibility landscape for small houses such as that of Grandma Peppina, realized also in absence or in discrepancies of the authorization landscape, if - I emphasize - it is declared the state of emergency of a national character, that is declared following the earthquakes. Ours - I emphasize - is not a bill ad personam, because the determination of grandmother Peppina has allowed to bring to light about three hundred other similar cases, with prefabricated temporary constructions built to cope with the emergency of earthquakes: buildings built independently by the citizens, especially by many breeders who could not wait for the months announced, and then extended, to realize the emergency housing structures provided for by the measures on slope of the long reconstruction. In a country where abuse is widespread and - alas - largely tolerated, institutions must apply common sense and understand the need of those who are in a handful of seconds in war, suffer devastation, loss of identity and for years remain in a state of absolute precariousness: these are the consequences that bring to citizens and grandmother Peppina earthquakes. In the aftermath of the eviction order, the city council member to the environment of the Marche Region had reassured Grandma Peppina that her problem was being solved, except then to turn back and realize that the only way was a modification to the national norm, the unique text on the environment. The draft law that we have tabled today is therefore intended to resolve the problems of Grandma Peppina and other hundreds of citizens of families and farmers. I hope that all the parliamentary groups will contribute to the rapid timing, handling and approval of the text in this House. We do not want this to happen next week, but at least in the last of the three calendars decided at the Conference of the Leaders, i.e. (to replace and be even better) through the decision-making headquarters in the Commission. I trust that all the parliamentary groups will be available. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u21	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have approved the timetable you have just read. Having also heard the comments made, I would like to explain to the House, trying to do so as clearly as possible, the reasons why, as far as the ius soli is concerned, the draft law on citizenship, I believe that, at the moment, the measure at its own protection is not agreed on schedule. I would remind the House that the bill on citizenship was virtually stuck in the Commission, buried by an avalanche of amendments, and that it was brought to the House without rapporteur by proposal, at the Conference of the Leaders, of the Democratic Party. I would just like to point out that this is a law to which the Democratic Party attaches primary importance and which is very important and which is adopted as soon as possible. At the moment, the parliamentary majority which supported and voted on the ius soli in the House has undergone a change, because a parliamentary group which is part of the majority, and which has twenty-four senators, has declared publicly and officially that it does not intend to vote on the measure at this stage. It is true that opposition senators (exactly a group of seven plus some others I know personally and who, overall, are just over a dozen) have made a commitment to vote for it. On their own, however, they are not enough to make a majority. I have heard, this morning and this afternoon in this House, that there are also other Members, other Senators, who would be ready and willing to vote on the measure. I must say that I would be very pleased if these wills were to manifest themselves, by making the commitment that, at the time when they appear, the Democratic Party will ask President Grasso for an immediate convening of the Conference of the Leaders and an immediate inclusion in the Assembly of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But let me make one thing clear. Having, on the other hand, the certainty that the measure would be rejected if it came to the Chamber, because I do not know the numbers that can approve it, it is responsible for postponing its inclusion on the agenda until, with the cooperation of all Members of Parliament who want it, a majority can be found that gives us the certainty that the measure is not finally rejected: because this would be really very serious and would go against the ius soli and the bill on citizenship. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u22	We shall now proceed to the vote on the requests for the inclusion of further draft legislation in relation to those already included in the timetable and the inclusion of other motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u24	You have the right to do so. Are you going to ask for an electronic vote, Senator Calderoli? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, because that cannot be done. I would, however, like to speak, as President Zanda has had this opportunity, although he has not made any proposals to amend the timetable. It is useless to turn around and hear colleagues in the House or President Orfini say that it is enough to put trust. Yeah, just put your trust in sending the Silver Gentile Government home. In fact, there would never be any confidence in that provision. I have heard at the Conference of the Leaders today about a new form of trust: objective trust. Would there be opposition members who would vote for the Silver Gentile Government? Congratulations and sons! Otherwise, we come to this House, we vote on my 50,000 amendments and let me say that if he is not dead, he alone at least in irreversible coma has already entered.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u25	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u26	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of further draft legislation. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include further motions for resolutions. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u27	There is a delegation from the ANCI and the small municipalities, interested, as are all citizens, in the draft law that we are going to discuss, that we salute. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to make an intervention, if possible, on the order of business, in order to bring to the attention of this House a fact that we consider serious (otherwise I would not raise it). I ask you to bring our voice to President Grasso, to point out, in our opinion, a strong incongruity. Today the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system was framed, the Bureau voted and our colleague, Senator Pierferdinando Casini, was elected President of the Commission. Mr ASTORRE (PD). Let's give it up! LUCIDES (M5S). If you want to give him a round of applause, Astorre, give him a round of applause. [[Applause from the PD Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u29	Senator Lucidi, you are making an intervention on the order of business, stick to this, communications to the Assembly may be given later. Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u30	LUCIDES (M5S). Clearly, we're not Senator Casini's fans. I would remind the House that Senator Casini is also chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee and that determines for us an incompatibility that must be assessed. This is a manifest incompatibility, to the point that today the Foreign Affairs Commission, meeting with the Defence Commission, did not have its President: the Presidency was vacant today, there was not even a Vice President to chair our Foreign Affairs Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is the gravity of the situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u31	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u32	LUCIDES (M5S). I didn't finish. I'm sorry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. LUCIDES (M5S). We denounce the fact that there is a conflict between the two Presidencies: we are not, in fact, talking about a member of two Commissions, but about a President who, as you know very well why he is doing this, oversees the work of the Commission or of this House. At the first meeting after the appointment of President Casini, the Foreign Affairs Committee was discovered by both the President and the Vice Presidents. This, Mr President, means that President Casini not only did not bother to come and chair the Foreign Affairs Committee, but he did not even bother to look for a substitute for his absence. I repeat, the Foreign Affairs Committee met without President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, you made your point. Get it done. LUCIDES (M5S). We are calling for a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to show us how things stand and how we can resolve this situation. I ask you, please, to bring this report of ours to President Grasso. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u33	All right, Senator Lucidi. However, the meeting of the Commissions was held regularly. I am a member of the Commission chaired by Senator Latorre and there has been.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u36	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, I give a little reassurance to my colleagues: I do not like to show my presence, but I can reassure my colleague Lucidi that I have followed the Commission's work as Vice President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm a member of the Commissions, and I took part. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u37	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2541, already approved by the House of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Realacci Members and others; Thirds and others. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u38	Mr. President... [[Comments of Senator Lucidi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u39	Senator Lucidi, let the speaker speak. You made your point, that the Senate will have to consider why it is not a marginal issue, but I would ask you to let Senator Vaccari speak, who now has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u40	LUCIDI (M5S). Senator Corsini said something that isn't true. SANTANGELO (M5S). Corsini, shame on you! VACCARI, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to make a few points in my reply to the broad debate that has taken place. I would like to thank you first of all... LUCIDI (M5S). It's not true what he said! He's making fun of us!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u41	Senator Lucidi, go back to your place. He made his speech; he raised the matter; others also have the right to speak and now the rapporteur is talking about a measure. It can't go on. Let the rapporteurs speak. WOMAN (M5S). He wasn't supposed to open the debate then. You shouldn't have let Senator Corsini speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur is speaking; he will wait. When the minority rapporteur has finished, he will speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u42	I would like to thank the 19 Members who have spoken, making the debate on the bill rich and interesting. LUCIDES (M5S). We want proof. He said something not true! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Give the Parent Company the floor. We're not playing games like this. That's not possible. LUCIDES (M5S). He didn't even notice that the president was missing. VACCARI, rapporteur. President, it is difficult to intervene under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u43	President Casini, who is entering the Chamber, has just resigned as President of the Foreign Affairs Committee. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would now like the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari, to continue, because the draft law on small municipalities is on the agenda. [[Senator Casini points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Casini, the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, had the floor. I'll give you the floor later. Let us conclude the rapporteur. The communication to the Assembly was given, the rapporteur continued because a draft law is under discussion. [[Comments of Senator Lucidi]] Senator Lucidi, have a seat. I beg Senators Quaestors to invite Senator Lucidi to sit down. ( [[Senator Cappelletti points out that he wants to intervene).]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You have to give the Leader the floor! Shame on you, you're a doormat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stay in your place, Senator Santangelo. I'll call you back to order. SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm gonna call you back to order and I'm gonna pray to the senators. Quests to invite Senator Santangelo to stand in his place. SANTANGELO (M5S). He's a group leader! You have to be ashamed! Zerbino! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, stay in your place. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] You are expelled from the Chamber. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I beg the Senators to escort Senator Santangelo out. Senator Santangelo, you can continue your show outside. SANTANGELO (M5S). You have to be ashamed! You're a doormat at the caste's service! That's what you do! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please respect your decision. I beg the quaestors to help the presidency. WOMAN (M5S). Don't put your hands on him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vaccari, while senators They have the quaestors carry out what has been decided, I invite you to continue your speech. VACCARI, rapporteur. All right, I'll try, Mr. President. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Give the 5 Star Movement the floor!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u44	First of all, I would like to thank the 19 Members who have spoken in the rich and interesting debate. GIARRUSSO (M5S). You give yourself the floor! VACCARI, rapporteur. In the course of the debate, however, we have heard judgments and criticisms that are often ingenious and presumptuous, obviously very linked to the forthcoming election campaign. GIARRUSSO (M5S). You must give the opposition the floor! VACCARI, rapporteur. At times the discussion also seemed to be quite different, i.e. with references to topics that had nothing to do with its object... GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame! VACCARI, rapporteur. We have also heard absolutely ingenious and presumptuous criticism of the ANCI and the role it plays and I take the opportunity to greet President Decaro and the delegation of mayors who wanted to attend our debate. (Senators Quaestors accompany Senator Santangelo outside the Chamber. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to congratulate you on the delicate and complicated work, but meritorious that the ANCI is doing in an absolutely collegiate logic. This is also demonstrated by the composition of the ANCI's leading bodies, starting with the roles of vice-president. We have heard very much about the electoral campaign. In the course of the discussion, so much criticism has been made of policies towards local authorities, forgetting, however, the mother of all the ugliness, which many colleagues have recalled, entrusting exclusive responsibility to the Democratic Party, the Government and its majority who have ruled the country over the last five years. I want to recall her, the mother of all these uglinesses: she is the law 30 July 2010, n. 122, adopted when they governed not Renzi, nor Gentiloni Silveri, but the Northern League and Forza Italia. I'm talking about the law on the rationalization of public spending, which was then extended and modified to reach the so-called Delrio law. I quote some of the ugliness introduced: the cuts, according to the balance of the Internal Stability Pact, for 1.5 billion euros in 2011 and 2.5 billion euros in 2012; the cuts to staff; the blockage of turnover; the associated management obligation; the introduction, for the first time, of the union of Municipalities; the obligation of recourse to the Council in the management of services and procurement. I have remembered this law not so much to make controversy, but to make some memory, because in debates like this it would take at least a little intellectual honesty from everyone. I believe that the problem of resources that has been highlighted by so many risks being a false problem, because alongside resources there are so many new opportunities and, as my colleague Mr Uras rightly said, we will need joint work, perhaps during the budgetary session, of all the forces involved to relaunch the issue of resources and allow our communities to do better the actions that the draft law in question puts in place. Mr Uras has rightly invited us to better define the context within which the measure fits. Mrs Pignedoli called him very well: the connected environment, the connected agriculture, the measures on the internal areas, the actions of the Government on the annuality directed to the paths and the villages, important in order to enhance those realities. Mr Perrone rightly referred to the draft law on the consumption of incardinated soil in the Agriculture and Food Production Commissions and land and environment, environmental goods. I add the provision on parks, which is in the calendar of the Assembly's work in October. Therefore, the allocation of EUR 100 million is certainly a first step. My colleague, Mr Astorre, pointed out that there are many others besides these EUR 100 million for broadband and the possibility for private operators to access the measures for so-called white areas (EUR 2,200 million). This is an important work, made to enhance the great heritage of history, art, culture, environment and traditions present in small Italian towns. Several colleagues have pointed this out, starting with Senator Pezzopane, whom I thank. There are hundreds, thousands of small villages that risk depopulation and the consequent degradation also due to a situation of marginality. A marginality that can be raised through a valorization of diversity and typicality, a wealth for a human dimension made up of integrations, relationships and cohabitations, as colleagues Cioffi and Uras have rightly reminded us. It is a true reversal of trend, a reversal of course. It is an absolutely positive sign that allows us that return to the value of agricultural production that in several have wished to recall, to that precious but fragile Italy that is the strong piece of Made in Italy in the world and to which we make available today - as I have said - many more opportunities than before, with a framework law - as my colleague Puppato has remembered - from the absolutely innovative port. It is a law of direction for a new model of development of the internal areas, as my colleague Cantini has remembered: a development based on the principles of the green economy that in the period of crisis, since 2008, has been able to produce one more than other sectors in terms of investment, innovation and employment. Certainly it is a first step, but an important step for the realization of that agenda against exodus that also the ANCI launched during the last assembly of 30 June in San Benedetto del Tronto. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u45	President Casini had asked for the floor earlier, but I see that he does not speak. I call the rapporteur, Senator Mancuso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u46	Mr President, I agree briefly with Senator Vaccari's thanks to his colleagues who have spoken in general debate this morning and I share his thoughts, especially with regard to those who have openly approved the content of this bill. I also have an obligation to object to some of the speeches I have heard, with a strong content: I am referring, for example, to that of my colleague, Mr Ceroni, who has been very passionate and of whom I clearly share the content, because I too have been mayor for ten years, like the many mayors present today in the gallery, who I greet and who daily commit themselves, with a great spirit of sacrifice and self-denial, to carry out their activities with difficulty and guarantee the services to their own municipalities. I must say, however, that the criticism of the spirit of the bill by Mr Ceroni has been partly ingenious, because the measure has absolutely positive contents and useful for the growth and development of these territories. Within the opposition I have also heard colleagues of the League exploit - allow me the term - the figure of 100 million destined to small municipalities by this bill and rightly quantified by them in 2,500 euros per year for each municipality. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we must not make bridges or urban redevelopments with these sums: none of this. These sums serve only to activate certain virtuous mechanisms within the territories. Therefore, it is precisely where there are the Consorted Municipalities, the Municipalities that unite and that know how to make territorial network, where there are those mayors - as my colleague Mrs Puppato said - who commit themselves and have ideas, that these sums can be useful to propose planning and to make the territory grow. They can be useful in intercepting funding, which only if in a context of territorial consortium - and we know something about it - can lead to an acceleration of the growth of those Regions. I would remind Mr Mussini that the spirit of the draft law under consideration is not that of administrative reordering. I absolutely agree with those who believe that they must safeguard the autonomy of municipalities and municipalities: it cannot be the Regions or bodies over-ordered to impose a union of municipalities, which must instead derive from an act of spontaneity, coming from the autonomy of the territories, and of convenience, in case the municipalities themselves consider it appropriate. There is no doubt that, in order to ensure the proper functioning and optimisation of services, some activities need to be networked. I do not think I am overreacting, Mr President, by saying that our country needs this measure, because of the need to fully implement Article 44 of the Constitution. Moreover, it is a bill that coordinates perfectly with what is foreseen by the environmental connection to the law of stability 2016, in which the green communities and the national strategy for the internal areas are foreseen. I therefore believe that this will be a good law, which will help Italy to face the future, thanks to the strength of communities and territories, which must once again be central. It is therefore a new idea of development, which focuses on territories and communities, which combines history, culture and traditional knowledge with innovation, new technologies and green economy. It is a world full of stories, sometimes even tragic, but it is still an essential and decisive territory to get out of the crisis and fight climate change. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u47	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u48	Mr President, Senators, today the Italian Senate, thanks to your work, supported by the sensitivity of each of you, is preparing to vote on the bill on small municipalities. I share the view expressed by most of this House that today we are voting for an important measure, a strong symbolic one, but also a bearer of concrete rules. It is in fact a highly awaited law, which constitutes an opportunity for Italy, brings with it a strong innovation and is in contrast with the past. Behind this initiative there is a strong thought, which comes from afar, which has seen generations of young, intellectual and environmentalists question the future of these territories, which has seen myriads of mayors engage and mobilize over the years. In fact, the small municipalities, in our country, constitute an inestimable patrimony, which encloses and defends landscapes, ecosystems, history and traditions of our territories. In most cases they are open-air museums: a treasure trove of beauty to be known and loved. Unfortunately, in recent years, the economic system in which we live has also become an accomplice, the problems of these territories, small and distant, such as depopulation, the lack of services, the problem of small schools and health facilities have expanded and amplified. These places have become more fragile systems, which need more attention on the part of politics, not only because in most cases they are also guardians of an extraordinary heritage of art, culture, traditions and history, but above all because they are guardians of a human heritage, which is made up of ways of sharing the land, of working it, of doing business, of building countries and communities to man's size. They are also fundamental elements of Italian identity, characterized by strong social cohesion, and are unique elements in an increasingly homologated and globalized context. It is well understood that the challenge we are facing with the final vote on this bill is not only the preservation of the artistic, cultural, landscape and natural heritage, but above all its valorization and diffusion through knowledge and sharing. For too long we have not noticed how valuable the small municipalities were in the national fabric, but today, with satisfaction, also in the light of the statements I have heard and the work I have followed in the Environment Commission, I can say, on behalf of the Government, that I am very satisfied and proud to have reached the approval of this bill precisely during this year of the Italian villages. This is a measure which, in Article 3, also commits concrete resources in favour of these extraordinary realities. I have listened carefully to the speeches made by the senators in this House, and some of them have highlighted the apparent scarcity of resources allocated to small municipalities. They seemed to me to be instrumental. On the other hand, I would like to stress how important these are, in fact, resources that represent a clear financial commitment. This appropriation is not only an opportunity to support initiatives, but can represent a real multiplier of financial availability to be added to other resources, both public and private. Fundamental, as has just been said, will be the ability of the municipalities to team up. In my opinion, the importance of this bill lies in the fact that it emphasizes that the economy in our country is not only re-launched on large infrastructures or large enterprises, but also on the territory and small municipalities, on those realities that are only apparently marginal, but that can also constitute for young people a return to their origins, the start of new entrepreneurial activities able to combine the knowledge of the territory, the technological and scientific knowledge acquired and the protection of the environment. The approval of the text today in the Chamber must coincide with the economic and social revival of the territory, the heritage of a true Italy, which exists in the consciousness and deep feeling of the Country, which knows how to cross history, culture, beauty, knowledge, with innovation, new technologies and the green economy. That is why I hope, as has already been the case in the Chamber of Deputies, that here too in the Senate of the Republic the bill on small municipalities will meet the vote in favour of the entire Assembly. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u49	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency has the Senator Santangelo's return to the Chamber. Since there are votes, we want to allow everyone to exercise their role. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u50	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1.4 which defines the criteria that municipalities must have in order to benefit from the law. We ask that, in addition to the areas affected by phenomena of hydrogeological failure, also those Municipalities characterized by seismic danger of zone 1 and 2, i.e. at high and very high seismic risk. Since we now have to register earthquakes almost annually in our territory, it is appropriate that among the beneficiaries there are municipalities that fall in areas with this level of seismicity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u51	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u52	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u53	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u56	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, very kind of you to give me the floor. I would also ask you, kindly and kindly, to have the votes taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u57	Now let's not exaggerate! I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u60	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, in a single statement I will make a few comments on the amendments referred to in Article 1, in particular on a proposal by my colleague Mr Arrigoni - whom I ask to be able to endorse - which has been the subject of further discussion in this House during the examination of other legislation and on which there has also been unanimous convergence in highlighting the reasons underlying the amendment itself and the objectives that are to be achieved. That is why I would ask the Government and the rapporteurs to reconsider their position of opposition by asking them to sign amendment 1.2. I believe that the reasons put forward by Mr Arrigoni are acceptable and I remember that even in relation to an amendment of mine they were also acceptable through an official declaration by the Government at the time (a few months ago). I therefore call for either a provision for amendment 1.2 or a reconsideration of the opinion to the contrary, or, if Mr Arrigoni ever agrees, a change in the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u61	I see that the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, confirms the opinion. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u64	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, in view of the contrary opinion, I propose that the rapporteurs turn this amendment into an agenda, but we are not talking about irrelevant issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u65	I see that the rapporteurs do not accept this request. I therefore call on Senator Arrigoni and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u68	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on this amendment, which seeks to enlarge the reference population. In fact, the measure for small municipalities is certainly appropriate, but it comes as a drop of water in the desert, that is, in a general situation of the territorial authorities very difficult. We therefore consider it appropriate to extend the provisions of this text to larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u69	We therefore proceed to the vote on amendment 1.6, without checking whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, because a previous resolution had determined that, in the event of the insistence of a vote on improcable amendments, the vote shall be taken without verification of the support, considering the support for the request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote sufficient for the procedure. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u70	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 2.6, which calls for the compulsory appointment of the municipal secretary for small municipalities to be removed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u71	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u72	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 2. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda. I also give a favourable opinion on the G2.101 agenda with the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u73	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u74	I put to the vote Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means. I would like to announce that the request is also valid for the subsequent amendments and articles, in order to allow the voting to be carried out more clearly. I understand that your attitude is designed to speed up as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u78	Senator Santangelo, I preside by the rules. As we have had a debate before, do not put forward any questions. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G2100 will not be put to the vote. Senator Moronese, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteurs for the agenda G2.101? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, ma'am. I would also ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.101 (text 2), presented by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u81	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, there are problems in this House of some kind, there are ghost presences or other, because we see that voting stations are lit up.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u82	We don't have the ghostbuster, but we have the secretary senators. I beg the secretary senators to check Senator Crimes' reports, because ghosts don't exist. Thanks for the report, Senator Crimes. If it was about the senator in question, he's in his place. Senator Secretary Colucci, you who are experienced, watch carefully and stop any attempt. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u83	Mr President, Amendment 3.3 is a proposal which, despite the armor of the text, proposes to increase - virtually doubling - the resources available to this measure. I think it's a matter that can't be implied. These resources, as has been pointed out in general discussion and as I imagine will also be the case in the course of the explanations of vote, are an issue which should not be underestimated. Amendment 3.4, on the other hand, considers that the priorities of the Fund for the structural, economic and social development of small municipalities should be stressed that the priority issue to be addressed is depopulation. We have peaks of depopulation and reduction of the population, which in many cases, in recent years, are higher than 30%. I therefore believe that the prerequisite for any action should make clear, explicit and incontrovertible that the issue of combating depopulation is one of the priorities of action. Amendment 3.15 aims to act by ensuring equal access to notices. In recent years, we have witnessed an excessive number of click days and situations and ways of presenting projects that have penalized especially those municipalities that are in areas without adequate connectivity. This aspect, which is also underlined by the draft law itself, must be addressed by ensuring equal access for all. Amendment 3.16 reaffirms that priority is given to the repopulation of the territories of the small municipalities and I believe that it is an important issue to indicate explicitly, as I have just said. Amendment 3.17, together with amendment 3.19, introduces another subject which, in my view, concerns resources and the very possibility of action by small municipalities. It is intended to point out that, in the event of expiry or the invitation to tender for concessions, a reserve for the acquisition of these concessions should be provided for by the municipalities we are dealing with. As it is appropriate, as we are talking about local resources linked to the territory, which can benefit local communities, regulate and address the great theme of the participation of local communities, through small municipalities, to the benefits obtained from the production of energy from renewable sources. Finally, it seems to me to stress that Amendment 3.18 realistically speaks of the need to tackle and better prepare a rotating fund that allows the municipalities to proceed with the necessary projects.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u84	Mr President, I shall present four amendments to Rule 3. The first is Amendment 3.7. We ask that, among the interventions to which the National Plan for the Redevelopment of Small Municipalities ensures a priority in order to ensure that they can benefit from funding from the Fund, be added, in addition to the reduction of hydrogeological risk, rightly reported in black and white in the text, also the anti-seismic adaptation of public and private buildings. I would also like to highlight Amendment 3.8, so that, among other things, the words'safeguarding and/or reclamation of polluted sites' are included. This is an absolutely non-secondary problem in our country. I would also like to explain Amendment 3.20. With regard to the projects to be identified and financed under the National Plan for the Redevelopment of Small Municipalities, we ask that, in the criteria to be observed by the President of the Council of Ministers' decree, there be a balanced allocation of resources at regional level; we therefore ask that the words "as far as possible" be expunged. Since resources are small, we demand at least a perfect balance and distribution. I conclude with the explanation of amendment 3.22. Again with regard to the criteria to be adopted by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, we ask that the projects drawn up by Municipalities in associated form be included among these priorities, in order to encourage associationism by the Municipalities. We therefore call for this amendment not to leave as a priority only the fact that the projects are proposed by Municipalities set up following mergers between Municipalities or Unions of Municipalities; a union of Municipalities that recent history is proving not to be so effective. This is a support to encourage associationism between municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u85	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 3,102, which I see as being supported by a large majority. The rapporteur, Mr Mancuso, pointed out that this is not a draft law that wants to intervene on the administrative structure. However, Senator Mancuso, there are many ways to intervene, and there is also to put a bait to encourage those who, perhaps because strangled by necessity, would also like to have that minimum, that crumb that is made flash under his nose. If this bill really does not want to be a surreptitious instrument to induce these municipalities to make operations that, as Senator Arrigoni has explained, are proving ineffective and inadequate, and if we want to be consistent, we supersede the priority to the financing of interventions proposed by municipalities established following merger or belonging to unions of municipalities. Let us put it to rest so that no one can have this fear. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask that we be able to subscribe to Amendment 3.20, at the first signature of Senator Comaroli, who deletes the words 'as far as possible', which are very annoying. Since the same bill states that it wants to distribute resources in a balanced way, the words "as much as possible" are really annoying. I believe that balanced distribution is a duty on the part of the State, because it is not redistributing Christmas gifts, but taxpayers' money. Therefore, if there is no balanced redistribution, I believe that a constitutional duty is lacking. In addition, I would ask the proposers of Amendments 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, all aimed at increasing the coverage of Article 3, to be able to subscribe to them. I would be fine with any form of increase in the figure envisaged. Of course these amendments will not be accepted, as we all know, because, as the Undersecretary says, this bill has an apparent shortage of resources. In my opinion, this is a bit like the perceived temperature, the perceived safety, the apparent unemployment, always thinking that maybe there will be an apparent defeat in the next election. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u86	Senator Bellot, you have turned Amendment 3,103 into an agenda. I should like to ask you if you are going to explain this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u87	Mr President, I would just like to say that, in turning this amendment into an agenda, I hope that it will be accepted, partly because it is a fairly long and thorny issue on which I have always asked for a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u90	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to sign the G3 103 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u91	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u92	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments. On the agenda presented by Mr Bellot, the G3,103, the opinion is in favour but we are going back to the government. The opinion on the G3.100 agenda of the rapporteurs is of course in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u93	Mr President, the opinion on the amendments is in line with that of the rapporteurs. As far as agendas are concerned, the government accepts both of them as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u97	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 3,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CASTALDI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u100	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask you to accept this amendment. This is a particular amendment and we ask the Government to reconsider it. We know very well that in these small municipalities - alas - young people leave. In these small municipalities the activities close, because they always try to move to the big urban centers. This amendment, which is truly excellent, first of all makes it possible to facilitate loans for the renovation of public buildings, the restoration of historic centres, tourist promotion and direct interventions for the environment and cultural heritage, the safety of infrastructure and schools. So, it's work. That means work. To increase all these activities means work, first of all, and therefore also to repopulate these small municipalities In addition, in addition to loans facilitated directly for the local authority, Senator Castaldi thought with this amendment also to give companies operating in these small municipalities an incentive for investment: in particular, a tax credit of 10%, commensurate precisely with the new investments. Therefore, it is indeed an incentive to the enterprise. The company does not simply receive rain financing: Do you invest in the territory and, therefore, do you carry work? At this point I'll help you with a tax credit. In addition, with regard to businesses in small municipalities, commercial, agricultural, craft and public establishments, there is a truly pioneering tax simplification in my view, because it ensures that corporate income is agreed with financial offices. In this case, therefore, there is an effective tax simplification because you are exempted from accounting documents and all tax certifications. As regards direct farmers and farmers - this measure would have been excellent on Vesuvius, unfortunately - what does Senator Castaldi propose? It is ensured that these people can be helped by giving them the opportunity to take on contracts (in this case, of course, by way of derogation, because they are agricultural enterprises); but to do what? Forestry work, construction of forest tracks, embankments, hydraulic installation, protection against atmospheric adversities and forest fires. Who better than the peasants who live in those areas can operate in this field? In addition, in order to facilitate access to agricultural activities, the purchase of land proposed by direct farmers and young farmers is facilitated by financing, in order to ensure that young people can repopulate not only small municipalities, but also these activities, which are fortunately now becoming economically profitable. And then, of course, we propose facilities on diesel and LPG for those who work in those municipalities, as well as incentives for the production of renewable energy. I believe that economic allocation is also sufficient. But, I say, if the government does not agree with these proposals, then what do you agree with? On what do you agree, if you do not agree to repopulate the Municipalities not simply in a random way, but in concrete terms, going to work on the small things they serve? Therefore, aid to municipalities for restructuring, aid to businesses, simplification of taxation and accounting, aid to small farmers, aid to young people who want to return to open activities: everything that normally has to be done by a good family father, such as the Italian Government should be. I therefore believe that perhaps it would be appropriate to revise your idea of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u103	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would ask you to accept Amendment 3.20. It seems to me that it deserves a vote in favour for two fundamental reasons: the first is that the text is a repetition of the obvious and we should be careful, even in legislative drafting, to use appropriate expressions, because I do not see that something can be done that is not possible; consequently the expression "as far as possible" is absolutely contradictory. The second reason is of a legal nature, because there is an international obligation, assumed by Italy with the ratification of the European Charter of Local Autonomy of the Council of Europe, since 1985, which explicitly provides for the obligation to ensure adequate financing for the municipalities. It is therefore an infringement of an international obligation that does not guarantee or guarantee it as far as possible. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u105	Senator Puglia has already spoken for his Group. There has already been an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u106	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make one point. Amendment 3,100 is nothing more than the summary of a draft law submitted to my first signature, to be included in the measure in our examination, which provides for everything that Senator Puglia has diligently illustrated. Because in the Senate we can't get the bill of oppositions scheduled, because the calendar, in fact, always decides the majority, with this system we try to improve the law that you are about to approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u107	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "30 million euros" for the year 2017. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.2 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.13 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u110	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment tabled by our Group is intended to prevent the unfortunate click day method from being applied here too. A draw, in fact, would already be more logical. We know of the problems that have occurred, of the overload of the network that occurs in these places, of the difficulties that the small municipalities particularly encounter and those in geographically marginal areas such as countryside and mountains, where there are computer networks much slower and, therefore, are already disadvantaged. This procedure, except for the few lucky ones who have been awarded it, is absolutely unacceptable because it is unverified and can be subject to any kind of will. The laws by which a right is established are, in my opinion, unconstitutional. At least in this case we ask for equal access for all based on objective criteria and not on luck or, worse, on small tricks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u111	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.15 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,17 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.19 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.22, which is identical to Amendments 3.23, 3.24 and 3.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u114	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, at the hearing we were told that the merger of municipalities is not always very welcome by the small municipalities, because - we must remember - it is the transformation of a certain number of municipalities into another entity, into a separate municipality. It seems to us to be a way of discriminating against the weakest and smallest, who are not always in the conditions and a situation of relationality such as to be able to merge or even a union, which is best seen. Therefore, we believe that, in the idea of better distributing the incentives provided for on the ground, this provision should be deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u115	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to amendments 3.23, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Castaldi, 3.24, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan, and 3.102, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3,103 has been turned into an agenda, the G3,103, which has been accepted by the Government as a recommendation and will therefore not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment No 3104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G3.100 agenda was adopted as a recommendation and therefore will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u116	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments tabled in Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u117	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u118	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). (18.16) Let us turn to amendment 4.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.2, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.3, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u119	Madam President, Article 5 provides for the possibility of drawing on the availability of the Structural, Economic and Social Development Fund for small municipalities for the acquisition and redevelopment of buildings in order to counter their abandonment. Amendment 5.2 which we have tabled is based on this possibility which the municipalities may have as a result of the adoption of the rule and which we agree with. In fact, we believe that, in addition to an initiative of an exclusively public nature, it is appropriate to imagine solutions useful to the amalgamation of the land properties also available to the private, in order to overcome the fragmentation of the property that - as is known to all - constitutes a critical element for the proper use of the properties for agricultural and agropastoral purposes, especially in the mountain areas or where the fragmentation of the property is very significant. I believe that Amendment 5.2, if adopted (but it will not be), can represent a multiplier of the possibilities available to the territory, as is also required on several occasions by the operators in the sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u120	Madam President, from a collaborative perspective, Amendment 5,100 takes up what is already happening in some regions. In my region has been approved, with unanimous vote by all political forces, a law - which I proudly claim as the 5 Star Movement - that establishes the Bank of the Earth and that is beginning to get its fruits right these days. Amendment 5,100 more or less follows that line and concerns both the land and the buildings, to counter the hydrogeological failure, to help cooperatives of young people, but also to recover crumbling buildings. I hope that, with a view to cooperation that we are all demonstrating for the adoption of the draft law under discussion, Amendment 5,100 will be able to obtain the rapporteur's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u121	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u122	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled. On the agenda, Mr G5.100, first signed by Senator Moronese, the opinion was in favour, subject to rewording. In fact, I propose that, in the part of the provisions, the Government should undertake to assess the appropriateness of taking specific initiatives and, later, the words "at a rate equal to 30% of the reference rate" should be expunged.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u123	Senator Moronese, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u124	Yes, Madam President. However, I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u125	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's and accept the G5.100 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u128	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u129	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 5.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u132	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask the rapporteurs whether, by turning this amendment into an agenda, there is the possibility of a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to express their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u133	Madam President, as far as I am concerned, there is availability: the Government could accept an agenda containing the usual formula for assessing the appropriateness of the agenda. I believe that the content can deserve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u134	Madam President, the Government accepts the agenda, with the formula "to assess the appropriateness of" the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u135	Senator Castaldi, do you insist on voting on the agenda as it stands? CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G5.150, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u136	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 6.7, which proposes to introduce a significant simplification in relation to the procedures related to the transfer of property ownership that we have discussed earlier. In the objective of saving, it is necessary to promote the acquisition of real estate without expense for expert opinion of the State Property Agency and without notarial spending and transcription and registration, which often prove to be greater than the amount of the property to be acquired. Today, public administrations that intend to buy a property must require, pursuant to Decree-Law No 98 of 2011, the adequacy of the price to the State Property Agency, with additional costs compared to the expertise elaborated by the internal technical bodies of the Municipalities and with long time of procedure. For the transfer of ownership, it is requested to use the fast and low-cost procedure, using the provisions of Law No. 448 of 1998, which gives local authorities the possibility to arrange the acquisition, subject to self-declared consent by the owners and subsequent decision-making council, which is recorded and transcribed free of charge.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u137	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u138	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 6, including the additional amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u139	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u140	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, identical to amendment 6.3, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 6.6, which is essentially identical to Amendment 6.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, essentially identical to Amendment 6.7, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.0.1, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u141	Madam President, one of the main reasons for the depopulation of small municipalities is the difficulty of linking them. Everywhere - but here more than elsewhere - it would be important to encourage teleworking, as well as telestudio. Amendment 8.0.1 seeks precisely to promote the adoption of incentive measures in favour of firms using this form of distance work for workers living in areas where it is necessary to arrive in another place of work, which is costly in terms of time and money.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u142	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u143	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 8, including the additional amendment that has just been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u144	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u147	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to withdraw amendment 8.0.1 and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to express their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u148	Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u149	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u150	Senator Nugnes, do you maintain the amendment? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which are to be referred to, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u151	Madam President, I am opposed to Amendment 9.2 and to the G9.100 (text 2) agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u152	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u155	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u156	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G9.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u157	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u158	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u159	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 11.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 11.2, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan, until the words: "meal vouchers." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 11.3 are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 11.0.100, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, until the words '20 per cent'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 11.0.101 are therefore excluded. Let us turn to amendment 11.0.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 11.0.102, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, until the words '20 per cent'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 11.0.103 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u160	Madam President, I am against all the amendments, including those aimed at adding additional articles after Article 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u161	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u164	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u165	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.2, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.02 tabled by Senators Moronese and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.0.3 tabled by Senators Moronese and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u166	Madam President, I would like to explain amendment 13.0.1, which seeks to remove the burden of drawing up the single programming document for small municipalities - a reminder of the population of less than 5,000 inhabitants - which is a useless instrument - as we say in this amendment - complicated and far from the reality of small municipalities. The latter no longer have any financial autonomy to plan for the lack of resources in general, caused by years of reduction of transfers, as well as autonomous resources, since since this year own revenues, due to the elimination of IMU and TASI, have become derived resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u167	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u168	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled to Article 13, including the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u169	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u170	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.1 which is identical to Amendment 13.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u173	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we shall vote in favour of these amendments. While the other articles of the bill in our examination conclude little, because they allow the municipalities to do things that they can already do or, like the one on the circulation of the daily press, they give permission to do impossible things, such as convincing the distributors of newspapers to take newspapers where there are no sales or where no one buys them, in this article is contained, instead, a norm that risks being harmful, because it imposes a further constraint on the small municipalities. In fact, it says that they must carry out the programming functions in the field of socio-economic development and whatever else. The amendment we have tabled proposes that conventions be possible, even without the obligation to do so through unions of municipalities and unions of mountain municipalities. I therefore announce that we will also vote in favour of Amendment 13.3 where we propose to replace the word 'exploit' in a form associated with the above-mentioned functions with the words 'execution'. I would say that the small municipalities are already quite burdened with constraints and that is their main obstacle, which unfortunately is not dealt with in the draft law under consideration. At least we don't explicitly add one. With this bill it was necessary to remove the constraints rather than add them. Here we have even added one and frankly we are really going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u174	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to Amendment 13.2 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.3 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 13.5 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u177	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in view of the comments made earlier, we shall abstain on this article, although we have voted and will vote in favour of all the other articles and the draft law as a whole. With this article, instead of removing constraints, we add them and, therefore, really go in the wrong direction. We'll abstain. I repeat that the small municipalities, as well as the companies of our country and also the large municipalities, need less unnecessary bureaucracy, less constraints, less obligations and greater freedom. Those who use this freedom badly will be punished by the voters, because the municipal elections, unlike the provincial elections, are still there. Therefore, on this basis they should be judged; otherwise, they are so bound in all ways, with constraints on the use of funds, on the recruitment of staff and on everything, that there would be nothing more to judge. If the Ministry of the Interior and all these directives are replaced by municipal voters, we see that Article 5 of our Constitution, which says that the Republic exercises the largest administrative decentralisation in matters within its competence, is brutally contradicted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u178	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u181	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, with this amendment we are asking that Article 170 of the single text of the laws on local authorities, namely the notorious single programming document, should not apply to small municipalities. Many words, municipal officials have to spend a lot of time on this document, which is only possible for someone to find mistakes for us. The point, on the other hand, is not what is written in the document, but what is being done, the measures being taken. There's no point in making a dream book. This is the typical bureaucracy that replaces writing to do. We need facts; people in general, in small and large municipalities, need facts and not documents. The drafting of this document, in a municipality that has hundreds or thousands of employees, would engage for several working days one of the many employees, that perhaps would be more useful that it did something else, for the sake of the Municipality itself, but, at least, does not block the administrative activity. But since in many municipalities there is only one employee or there are three or four (we speak of small municipalities, this is the law), it is really time thrown away. Of course, the measure, as has been the case for all others, will be approved with the words "without additional burden on the State's balance sheet." This means that the employee or that official, instead of doing something useful for the citizens, will have to make cuts that no one will read and that, even if someone read them, would be perfectly useless.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u182	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.0.1, tabled by Senators Malan and Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.3 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 14, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u183	Madam President, I am against Amendments 14.1 and 14.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u184	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u185	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 15, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which will be discussed, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u186	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled to Article 15, including the additional amendments. On the other hand, I am in favour of the G15.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u187	Madam President, I am against all the amendments tabled to Rule 15. As far as the G15.100 agenda is concerned, I welcome it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u190	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u191	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 15.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous voting of the first part of Amendment 15.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "collar" and "colliner." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 15.2. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 15.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.5 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 15.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.7 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.8, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 15.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 15.100, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government as a recommendation, the G15.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 15.0.1, which is identical to Amendment 15.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.1, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, identical to Amendment 15.0.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 15.0.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 15.0.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.0.5 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.6 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.9 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.8 tabled by Senators Piccoli and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, only to paragraph 2. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 15.0.10, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, to be taken at the same time: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 15.0.7 and 15.0.11. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.12 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.13 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.0.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u194	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we shall vote in favour of this amendment, which - as they say - is self-explanatory. It provides that, for municipalities with a population of up to 5,000 inhabitants, the treasury service may be entrusted without recourse to public evidence procedures in the event that there are branches of a single banking institution in the municipal territory or that there are no counters. Sounds like an obvious measure. We would gain time and money: a lot of time and also a lot of money, always commensurate with the finances of a municipality of 5,000 inhabitants. Instead, you want to race with only one competitor. Then, maybe, you don't race in other sectors where the billions flow, but the municipalities have to throw away months and months and thousands of euros to make unnecessary races. We will vote in favour, but I think the majority will do the opposite.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u195	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.0.14, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.15, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.16, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 15.017, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous voting of Amendment 15.0.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 15.0.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since it has been requested to vote, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.18 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which an amendment has been tabled to include an additional article, which is intended to be explained, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u196	Madam President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u197	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur's.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u198	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 17,0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the simultaneous vote of amendment 17,0.100, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Comments.]] Colleagues, it's an hour before the closing of the session. As we have also shortened the agenda for the needs of various Members, if we are to conclude tomorrow's debate on motions, we must continue with our work. We shall therefore proceed with the explanations of vote until 7.50 p.m. and then give space to the speeches at the end of the sitting and resume the examination of the measure in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u201	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, after a long series of measures against the Municipalities, made mainly of cuts in transfers - I note that more than 80% has been cut in the last five or six years - represented by constraints of all kinds (staff turnover, stability pact, now converted into a balanced budget), finally a measure - at least on paper - in support of the Municipalities, small ones. However, it is those municipalities - incidentally - that the Democratic Party and also the NCD, or at least a part of their parliamentarians, would want to eliminate, through an authoritarian merger imposed from above, by law, prohibiting its existence. I quote their bill: A municipality may not have a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants; for the New Centrorightstra 10,000, regardless of location, in the case of disadvantaged or mountainous areas. That's a centralist piece of crap. The text that the Senate is preparing to fire definitively... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u202	Colleagues, please avoid the huts, to allow the colleague to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u203	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). As I said, the draft laws of the Democratic Party and the New Right Centre on the merger of municipalities represent a centralist crap. The text that we are about to dismiss in the Senate was finally approved by the House exactly a year ago, but the examination - I stress - in the Commissions has continued since the beginning of the legislature, taking up the text approved in the last legislature by the Chamber alone, where I point out that the League has contributed in a remarkable way to its definition. But why is it so long, it lasted an entire legislature? The most obvious difficulty was to find an agreement with the Government to identify the financial resources to be allocated to small municipalities. Unfortunately the mountain has given birth to a mouse: the resources allocated - as they have evidenced in many - are really thin, are crumbs, regarding the complexity of the situations and the necessities that have the small Municipalities, often present in the most fragile territorial areas, like the mountain ones, like - for example - to counter the worrying tendency to depopulation; to promote and enhance the own excellences, for example the landscape heritage, the artistic and historical-cultural one, but also the food and wine realities. We are talking about about 5.585 municipalities, about 70 percent of the total, which corresponds to almost 16.6 percent of the Italian population. These are small local realities, which constitute the true wealth of this country, which proudly guard and enhance the characteristic villages of Italy. They are realities that, together with their municipalities, made up of mayors, city councilors and councilors, represent above all garrisons of security, vitality, but also of control of the territory and guarantee of the protection of local identities; local identities that the League has always defended and supported and that it wants to continue to defend and support also in this case. The aim of the measure is to put on the net a series of initiatives able to make system in the inner areas more disadvantaged, in particular in the mountain ones, characterized by communication difficulties, in order to make it also convenient to live in a small center or in a small town, but for Italian citizens and not - as someone would like - filling these villages with asylum seekers creating ghettos. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These initiatives cover a number of areas, in particular the environment, civil protection, education, social and health care, sport, agriculture, trade, tourism and mobility. However, this text will hardly be able to build new attraction poles and reasons for the resettlement of populations in today's disadvantaged and sparsely populated areas. This is a concern which we, unfortunately, have reiterated in the general debate and which we would also like to mention in the explanations of vote. In fact, the worrying decline in territorial services such as schools, post offices (more and more closed ones), sanitary facilities and shops continues. Moreover - I want to remember - since 2014, with the wretched Delrio law, which has sank the Provinces, has definitely failed the support for the small municipalities of these intermediate agencies! As already mentioned, the real limit of this measure is the insufficient financial resources that will feed the fund established for the occasion: 10 million euros for 2017 and 15 million euros for each of the years from 2018 to 2023, in total 100 million. They make sense of what we are talking about: it is less than EUR 1.5 per year for every inhabitant living in small municipalities. Unfortunately, we are in the presence of small change compared to the real and concrete needs, also with respect to the levels of investment, of substantial resources that should be used in the perspective, also of the hydrogeological and seismic defense of the vast national territory administered by the exceptional network of small municipalities. If we think that the damage of the earthquake that hit Central Italy last year has already been quantified in no less than 15 billion euros, we have the exact sense of the fact that we are faced with a measure that, unfortunately, will not develop, precisely because of lack of economic and financial resources, its real and concrete goals. Among the most qualifying provisions of the text, there is precisely the preparation of a national plan for the redevelopment of small municipalities through the purchase and recovery of abandoned buildings and land; the purchase of cantonary houses and abandoned railway chairs - so much like the Minister Franceschini and reminded us this morning our Leader - the safety of infrastructure and public buildings; the reduction of hydrogeological risk; energy efficiency; the redevelopment of historical centers and cultural assets; the static and anti-seismic consolidation of historical buildings. It remains to be regretted that many of our rules and amending proposals, which were aimed at effectiveness and improving the measure, were not shared by the majority. It is regrettable that, during the course of the various hearings we held in the Commission, we listened above all to the representatives of the ANCI and the National Association of Small Italian Municipalities (ANPCI), which have posed a whole series of serious and real problems affecting small municipalities and which the text does not solve. The administrative and bureaucratic side was also called for greater simplification. We have tabled amendments which have been rejected in this House. On the other hand, in addition to the obligation to carry out the basic functions in an associated form, the obligation to carry out programming functions together has been added, further exacerbating the already heavy burden of the associative forms of these municipalities. In conclusion, the text is very far from that promoted by our Group in the last parliamentary term, but - obviously - it is the only possibility that small municipalities have today to see some extra incentive from the current Government and the current majority. We consider this to be a small and first step in the direction to be pursued, which is always to meet the needs of the mayors, who must not be tarpathized, and of the associations that are somehow in serious difficulty. For these reasons, therefore, we shall vote in favour of the measure. I would like to say to Senator Orellana, whom I do not see in this House now, that there is no inconsistency with my criticisms and those of my colleagues in the North League who have spoken this morning in general debate. However, the risk that the measure under consideration creates only expectations in the mayors is very high. We, as the North League, have consistency. We are waiting to record that of the Democratic Party and the People's Alternative Group - Centristi per l'Europa - NCD, with the withdrawal of their draft laws on the merger of small municipalities. Otherwise, a certain schizophrenia would be certified in you, because there can be no desire to enhance the small municipalities and, at the same time, to suppress them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u206	DAVICO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the small municipalities represent a fundamental part of the socio-economic fabric of our nation and, if properly valued, can become an extraordinary resource for our territory in different ways: environmental, landscape, historical and architectural, as well as the small local culture, art and food and wine. There are really many aspects that are subject to this micro reality that makes our country great. The importance of small municipalities is first and foremost numerical. The small municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants are almost 6,000 and constitute the vast majority of the inhabited centers of Italy. These municipalities administer 30% of the population, but manage 50% of the territory, especially the most difficult one, perhaps the one of large extensions, mountain, hill or large non-urbanized areas. It is for this reason that we welcome with an attitude of optimism and all in all positive any proposal that sets itself the objective of supporting the action and simplification of the life of our fellow citizens and especially of their administrators, that every day they spend so that all this huge heritage can be safeguarded and remains the heritage of all, of the whole nation. In order to be objective, however, it must be recognised that the draft law under consideration must be seen and assessed under different angles. If, as I said earlier, from a certain point of view we stress its optimism and positivity, from another point of view we see its limitedness. The first limit is that of time: we are at least ten years late on these issues and on this type of intervention. Above all, the planned intervention is not complete because, at the end of everything, it is based on a fairly derisory allocation of resources and does not give complete answers. In the small municipalities we must first be able to live and have the services and all those living conditions that prevent desertification. In fact, young people must abandon them, the elderly remain and administrators are alone with themselves and without resources to manage huge, vast and even difficult territories. For this reason, the first immediate criticism, already emphasized by many colleagues, is that of the resibilability of economic investment which will make it difficult to implement some of those initiatives that are indicated in the article of law. Just to understand, we are talking about 10 million for 2017 and 15 million per year for the years 2018-2023. Considering that the municipalities are more than 5,000, the calculation is elementary: these are figures that are between 2,000 and 3,000 euros per year. They will solve very little, or even nothing. That is why the very detailed and in-depth substance of the rule - which we share, however - is frustrated by this dramatic shortage of investment by the State and the public administrations. If we consider, instead, the strategy, principles and direction behind this legislative initiative, then it can represent an important starting point in the path of recognition and enhancement of the role that these urban centres play within our national socio-economic fabric. The small municipalities are important in other respects and this, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember: one of them is the management of the territory, mostly of the internal areas, administered in a difficult and impervious way, sometimes even heroic. Then we understand also the importance that these micro-realities have also from the point of view of the protection and protection of the territory, nature, flora and fauna, the protection of forests, hydrogeological and natural parks, of which our territory is as rich as few others. But the small municipalities also have a social function that cannot be forgotten, but rather must be considered carefully and supported. In a nation where demographic ageing has reached levels that are considered a real emergency, it is inevitable that there is a greater concentration of elderly people in small centres than in areas with higher population density. This leads to the priority in these areas of resources for social and health care and the provision of related services. I am referring to that possibility of life which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. They also represent a great and extraordinary potential in economic terms. In fact, it is now acclaimed that in the more than 5,000 municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, i.e. 72 percent of the Italian municipalities, an extraordinary heritage of cultural and environmental goods, traditions, manufacturing skills, knowledge and flavors, conviviality, ability to cultivate the land and agricultural productions, perhaps forgotten, that do not make quantity, but quality and that many envy us. Surely this can be even more a potential for economic development that is very important for our nation. I am also thinking of tourism: the small Italian municipalities are a positive reality in the national tourist landscape, which demonstrates the ability to hold and attract Italian and foreign visitors. Small towns and cities of art, small cradles of works of art that, combined, constitute a great artistic heritage that makes our country extraordinary. This heritage, as well as the parks and other landscape riches, is one that, combined with agriculture and our typical products, the whole world envys us and must be valued even more than we are doing on this occasion. Then the development of short supply chains, such as finalization, restructuring and marketing, represents another of the potential riches of these territories. This is why it is worth focusing on these small centres, perhaps even more than the large metropolitan areas or even the great cities of art, because there is a different tourism, perhaps of niche, but unique, because mature, of quality and inserted in the territory. This represents a flywheel for a true rebirth and a solid economic development that is widespread throughout the national territory. Finally, I believe that there is another intangible wealth, but in some respects even more precious: that of the preservation of the identity of a nation and a people. The protection of a cultural, historical, archaeological, architectural and landscape identity that is most exalted in these small villages. Yesterday we passed two bills for the celebration of the centenaries since the death of great Italians who made great art, culture and science. They came from small municipalities, small places, medieval towns that at that time, as well as today, were really microscopic in the national and international panorama. It is an intangible identity, but it is transformed into a tangible economic value, linked to the excellence and exclusivity of that art of living in our country, which is unique. If I were to name those countries, the list would collect the whole of Italy. Madam President, all this in order to say that we agree on the initiatives for the recovery and redevelopment of historic centres; some members of our Group have tabled specific draft laws on these issues, which may then be resumed and will be added and supplemented by what we are doing on this occasion. We agree on the need for measures to combat the abandonment of buildings in small municipalities, the acquisition of cantonal homes and the creation of tourist-cultural circuits and itineraries, the spread of broadband, the promotion of zero kilometre products and therefore on much of the content of this proposal, which must be supported. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we need to be able to live and work in these places, otherwise everything that has been done becomes weak and quite lonely. For all the reasons briefly stated, although aware of the criticalities and the needs still existing, I declare that the Federation of Freedom Group will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u209	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, as early as 2006, when I was elected to Parliament for the first time in the House of Deputies, we had started discussing small municipalities. Twelve years have passed and we have not been able to pass a law on small municipalities at this time. Today - indeed tomorrow - seems to be the good time. Our Group deliberately did not want to table amendments, because the text of the bill was passed on to us by the House of Deputies and therefore, if the Senate does not make any changes, the law will be finally passed and the small municipalities will finally have a law. We believe that it could have been done better, but rather than nothing, we believe that what has been done in the House of Deputies is more than enough. I can assure you that over the past twelve years I have listened to the most varied speeches of mere demagogy. Everyone speaks of the need to intervene on the small municipalities, but never have the two branches of Parliament managed to submit a law on the promulgation of the President of the Republic. Tomorrow will therefore be a great day, because we will finally have the law. It will be September 28th and I almost remember the song of the Equipe 84, titled "September 29th": it is perhaps a lucky date. I therefore repeat our intention to vote, which we have shown, since we did not even want to risk the adoption of an amendment, because otherwise this parliamentary term, like the previous three, would have passed without reaching the adoption of a law in favour of the small municipalities. In fact, the role of fundamental importance for the whole country is demonstrated by the municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, for a total amount, as some colleagues have previously mentioned, of about 5,600 realities. Among other things, I was lucky enough to drive a municipality with population below 5,000 inhabitants and therefore, as mayor, I can testify to the thousand difficulties that the about 5,600 small Italian municipalities every day have to overcome. Let's not forget that there are also municipalities of 600 souls, who have to tender such as the Municipality of Rome or Milan, having no type of structure. Perhaps, the bill on the inclusions of small municipalities also serves because the structure is still that: there is need of the municipal secretary, the chief accountant, the chief engineer; there is need of the municipal police; all this with 600 souls. I mean, there are so many situations that need to be solved day after day, that maybe being in here doesn't make sense. That is why I say that perhaps the true Pope is the one who made the country priest: the real legislator is the one who passed for the small municipalities, who therefore did the course of honours and knows what it is about not having been dropped from above in the two branches of Parliament without even knowing what is being talked about. There are positive data on the tourism of protected areas that mostly affect small local authorities, these 5,600 realities. The role of these municipalities in qualifying and relaunching a substantial part of the national tourist offer is now a certain fact: not only the cities of art, not only Venice, Rome, Florence, Naples, Milan, but also the small realities. I live in Lunigiana, the historic region of castles, but also the nearby Cinque Terre are the destination of thousands and thousands of tourists, especially Americans. We are talking about 70 percent of Italian municipalities that have an extraordinary heritage of cultural and environmental heritage, traditions, bell towers and manufacturing skills, knowledge and conviviality, as well as being increasingly important in the agricultural sector. The certified Italian productions are the most numerous in Europe and are constantly increasing on the basis of that tradition in the food and wine sector that has always characterized our territory. Just think of the words "doc" reserved for oil and honey that are exported to the world. Just think that in organic we are the first in Europe and third in the world thanks to these 5,600 realities. It is therefore clear the indispensable contribution that small municipalities make to our economy - they are a cell that gives the possibility of forming an organ - and it is a source of pride to be able to talk about a sector to be considered in further expansion. Many quality Italian producers are, in fact, investing in research and experimentation on native vines, on the biological environmental riches that are possessed, from chestnut to fungus, oil, honey, which to a large extent affect the small municipalities, especially the mountain ones. These are forerunners of innovation and entrepreneurial creativity that have the merit of having projected on the wider national and international panorama, strong of the value and quality of Made in Italy, because when Venice says that it can no longer welcome tourists, on the contrary, the small municipalities still have great potential to increase further the percentage of tourism in Italy. In this context, the need was felt to frame the subject within a single text. As I said, for twelve years I have heard of a single text and of chatter we have made many; tomorrow, at last, the chatter will turn into reality having arrived to legislate on a single text of the small Municipalities, which will contain a whole series of provisions able to enhance these small local communities, which are the fundamental element of the identity of our country. After all, we know very well the attractive factors of many territories of small, large Italy: security, control and social cohesion, health, quality, usability of the environment, authenticity of human relations, good and genuine food, so much so that many of these territories now host communities of new citizens, especially European and American, who have come to invest; they have purchased hectares and rural houses, have put them back in place: they work and produce close to our fellow citizens. They have therefore become owners and also producers of goods. I live - I repeat - in Lunigiana and I usually mention the river Magra, which is considered the cleanest of the Centre-North; In fact, there is an activity of fishermen from Florence, Parma, Piacenza and Genoa, because it is a very fishy river and those who practice this sport know that there the water is clear and therefore can come fishing trout or eels. These realities also have the merit of having favored integration and social inclusion also towards many immigrant workers - yes - engaged in agriculture (i.e. in jobs that Italians may no longer do) and in manufacturing. The measure under discussion therefore expresses the desire to make concrete use of territories which, although small, have enormous value; this will must be supported in order to provide for an integrated system of financing, incentive, tax relief and bureaucratic and administrative simplifications in order to allow these territories to compete and seize the opportunities that paradoxically globalisation has opened up. For these reasons, our Group will be proud and proud to see a single text on local authorities finally adopted after twelve years; even if it is not perfect, we think it is more than sufficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u212	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft law under consideration certainly had the advantage of placing positive attention on small municipalities. Talking about small municipalities means first of all reflecting on the relationship that exists in our country not only between center and periphery, but also on the territorial marginality and also on our history, our deep roots and therefore on the Italian identity that has had an absolutely fundamental element in the Municipalities. However, it is necessary to have the intellectual honesty to admit that today two opposing views are being compared in public opinion when it comes to small municipalities: on the one hand they are identified as a remnant of the past, as useless bodies, and hence the idea of establishing with a stroke of pen a minimum of 10,000 inhabitants. Another vision sees small municipalities as garrisons of democracy and sentinels of the territory. We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are clearly, clearly and without delay, for the second vision, albeit with the necessary corrections, i.e. encouraging, where possible, collaboration and integration between small municipalities. Therefore, the bill under discussion is for us a step forward in the right direction of the valorization of good practices and there are many in the realities of the small Italian Municipalities; however, we say clearly, even in the presence of the Government, that the bill is timid, too shy on the front of the resources that are made available. It is also undeniable that there is a worldwide concentration of development, work and wealth in favour of large urban centres. This of the megalopolis is a trend that has been in place for a long time and that is becoming accentuated also in our country. Politics must therefore try to rebalance this phenomenon also in the interest of the large urban cities, which today are certainly a motor of development, and which need to have around an environment and a system of autonomy and municipalities that can give and strengthen their own national identity. We need small municipalities, because today we face extraordinary emergencies: hydrogeological and water in many territories of our country. We are faced with phenomena of climate change that require to have just a garrison on the territory that only and only the realities of the small municipalities can guarantee, in a framework of efficiency, collaboration and integration that I remember before. It remains an unsaid of this bill, which has the objective not only to focus attention on small municipalities, but also to try to build active policies for their relaunch. The central question of who lives in a small municipality (I have had the privilege of being mayor for ten years of a Municipality of just over 2,000 inhabitants and I am proudly councillor of it municipal since 1995) has been experiencing a growing problem for too many years: I refer to the necessity that there exist on the territory services that allow those who live in small municipalities to remain there, not to go away and above all, in the perspective of revival and development, that allow new families to settle. These services which should remain available to the citizens of small municipalities are called school, public transport, health care, home care, broadband, postal services: all services which, in recent years, have seen a compression, rationalization, a strong weakening in terms of quantity and quality. Too often, in fact, we legislators also forget that in the more than 5,500 municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants, in the small municipalities of the 8,000 Italian municipalities, live about ten million people of the 60,5 million of the total Italian. Politics, and this is the positive sign of this bill, must try to counter the tendency I mentioned earlier, to counter the cutting of services, otherwise we will be faced with a new territorial fracture, a social fracture between A-series citizens, those of the large cities that have services, that have broadband and that live in modernity, and B-series citizens who live in small marginal municipalities that still today have broadband with telephone dubbing while in cities we are talking about numbers that are extraordinarily larger. It is therefore necessary - and I am beginning to conclude - to combat a phenomenon that exists, also due to the ageing of the population and the decline in the birth rate, which I recall in the last two years has had a negative peak, and it is necessary, in order to combat depopulation, to encourage the establishment of new businesses in a logic of sustainable development. I am thinking of organic agriculture and the development of tourism. There is a great potential in Italy of small municipalities that I believe should be one of the priorities of our government action. So the small municipalities, I say this forcefully in this House, are a resource and not a burden or a legacy of the past. They are a unique environmental, historical and artistic resource that is a fundamental part of Italian identity exactly as are part of Italian identity the great cities of our country, known all over the world. It is for these reasons that we have not tabled any amendments. I do not deny that several of the amendments tabled in this House were reasonable and acceptable, but there was a principle that had to be respected: we had to approve the text as it came to us from the House, otherwise for the umpteenth time, at the end of the parliamentary term, there would have been no law on small municipalities. Therefore, for these reasons, the Group of Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement will vote in favour of the measure at our examination, asking - I say this to the representative of the Government whom I thank for his presence - to give and try to give answers in terms of resources and projects, beginning also with the next budget law. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u213	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u215	PERRONE (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Madam President, as announced during the general debate, this measure proposes objectives that are acceptable. However, the text before this House today does not seem to be able to achieve everything it promises. There is a lack of adequate economic resources, a link with the laws in force on the subject, the definition of the priorities through which to contain the phenomenon of depopulation and, at the same time, to relaunch the small municipalities, enabling the local administrations to be able to invest in their territory. We are aware, however, that this is a measure that small municipalities expect from different legislators, a signal that shows how the legislator has understood the need to find solutions to a problem that manifests different criticalities on the territory. Remedial measures will be needed, especially in order to provide more economic appropriations, just as the many declarations of intent contained in this text will have to be transformed into real solutions that can change the health of the small municipalities for the better. For these reasons, however, we consider this measure to be a step in the right direction and therefore I am voting in favour of it. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u216	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u218	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this measure is an important signal of attention and consideration to the small municipalities, which are mainly located in the mountains. At the same time, we cannot fail to observe how this law lately concludes its process and deals only partially with the problems of small municipalities: we need more resources and fewer constraints and therefore further legislative measures that introduce an organic regulatory framework. The government had given assurances in this regard, with the announcement of a specific link on the mountain, but it never arrived. Expecting the access of small municipalities to a fund of 10 million euros for 2017 is a significant fact. However, the essential point, precisely from the most complex perspective of the small municipalities, is to ensure that access to the fund, as well as to the other opportunities envisaged, is ensured through simple and flexible procedures. It is also important that policies for retraining and coordination between small municipalities are supported by a significant and structural reduction in expenditure costs, for example for contracts between private individuals with agricultural funds with an area of not more than 5,000 square metres. It is a commitment that the Government has accepted to the Chamber, on the proposal of the autonomists, but that has already been disregarded, if precisely in these days the central director of the Customs Agency has sent a communication with which it imposes, for the purpose of the facilitated use of agricultural fuel, that all contracts of agricultural convenience, even for the hundreds of thousands of very small particles, are obligatory in written form and regularly recorded. It is clear that at that point the smaller soils will remain uncultivated, since their use becomes uneconomic. Everyone understands that, but not the organs of the state. And this despite the fact that in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 an amendment of mine was adopted which stipulated that, for land parcels of less than 5,000 square meters, farmers were not required to have the relative title of conduct for the purpose of the establishment of the business file. As a For the Autonomous Group, we therefore consider it essential that we finally understand that the reality of the small municipalities, first of all in the mountains, requires greater attention and in terms of the system, in the face, as shown implacably by the relationship "The lost mountain," of a phenomenon of strong depopulation, which must be combated absolutely. Fighting depopulation is necessary to counter also the hydrogeological failure and to enhance substantial portions of the national territory with their naturalistic and environmental heritage. This is why it is essential to set up a specific model of governance for mountain communities, through greater internal synergy and an integrated system of essential services, policies for productive development and the attraction of economic and social resources. In this context we must value the contribution that can come from those who live in the mountain. I am thinking of farmers who have dead periods and available machinery, who can come back useful for the clearing of the snow or for small jobs of maintenance of the territory or of care of the woods, thus also taking advantage of a valuable opportunity of economic rounding. But I am also thinking of the development of tourism, which needs targeted action, and the opportunity of the widespread hotel, contained in the bill, is an excellent example in this regard. Being able to live and produce in the mountains is not only a right of the populations concerned, but is a resource for the Italy system that needs to be protected and encouraged. Therefore, it is essential to guarantee the small municipalities regulatory simplification measures and a system of services that can overcome the currently unsustainable gap with the large municipalities. In these respects, the small municipalities are not isolated realities, but indicate a path, cultural and productive, shared. In Trentino, with the project "Digital Mountain" we are completing a system of interconnection that, through the completion of the broadband network, can guarantee mobility via Network and thus allow to work, without moving, even in the most isolated areas, to connect and dialogue with the world and to promote everywhere its products and its territory. That is why I have insisted - and I hope that resources are found in the budget law - on supporting cultural volunteering, which is another fundamental element for social cohesion and the growth of these realities. But we also need to introduce specific and punctual exemptions for small businesses and for economically insignificant activities, and in particular tax exemptions for public establishments: if they close the only meeting points left; if they close the post offices; if they do not guarantee school and training services; if they do not correct the tendency to impoverishment, a community is destined to die and young people flee, impoverishing the territory, but also our society. Promoting the establishment of multifunctional centers with a greater plurality of services offered, promoting the activities of promoting the historical and identity fabric of the territory and the productive activities related to the natural and artistic heritage, determines an added value that increases the competitiveness of our country. It is therefore necessary for the European Union to value those who cultivate and protect the land, while, unfortunately, today, with the support of our national bodies, the opposite is true: we reward the rents of the plain position and it is considered marginal to intervene in support of mountain realities. Our mountain realities are also the example of a widespread volunteer who defends the richness of the Alpine territories, in different ways. I insisted, for example, that the legislation on defibrillators - as the government has done - be amended so as not to penalise volunteering. Even in this way, we help to enhance the energies and projects spread even in small realities. In short, we believe that the measure is positive, has many innovative elements and an articulated range of opportunities, confirming the particularity of these territories, its needs and its potential. We hope that the necessary resources will be found on this basis to ensure that it is properly implemented. The next budget law is the ground on which we will determine whether this legislature has had the right attention to the small realities and the mountain territories, because for too long those territories have been waiting for concrete facts and attention that is not only in good intentions. I am referring, for example, to the difficulties we encounter in managing the presence of the bear and the wolf, on which an immediate, concrete commitment is needed, in order to meet the legitimate concerns of the territories concerned. We call in particular on the Government to interpret the European Habitat Directive in the right sense of protecting the survival of the species and not of the individual, because if the national level does not give more autonomy to the local institutions, we risk the exasperation of the resident populations and to frustrate a plan of coexistence that has saved the two species from extinction. It is with these wishes that I declare the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE to vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u221	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a long and intense work has come to fruition at the beginning of this parliamentary term. The law on small municipalities is a law of parliamentary initiative resulting from the listening and dialogue between different groups, of majority and opposition, which helped to draw up a text shared and born from the meeting of different proposals. For this reason, this measure is first and foremost a good page for Parliament and for politics. This is the fourth time that Parliament has voted on the Small Towns Act. The first draft was presented in July 2011, at the beginning of the 14th legislature. In the last parliamentary term, then, approval seemed to have been done. The text, however, ran into the Senate without ever being discussed. The delay in approving a measure of this kind was felt and weighed for at least three orders of reasons. The first is related to the fact that Italy of small municipalities represents a very important segment of our country. There are 5.627 municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants and 70 percent of the total. They cover 160,000 square kilometers, that is 54 percent of the surface of Italy and accommodate little more than ten million inhabitants, that is little less than 17 percent of the total population. The second order of reasons, linked to the first, is that these territories are a fundamental element of the Italian entity. They are often characterized by a high quality of life, a strong social cohesion and contain a very important part of our historical, artistic and landscape heritage and preserve many excellences of the Italian production system. The third order of reasons has to do with the crisis. If, in fact, the distances between the Italian territories are not shortened, the road to recovery will continue to be uphill and full of difficulties. Yes, because in this case it will not be the market alone to solve this problem, if we do not face a common effort to rebuild the conditions and opportunities, so that this part of Italy can really bet on itself. A bet that must be launched because it can only be won if we pay attention to phenomena that have established themselves in recent years and are of great interest. Just think of the new forms of tourism, the growth of youth entrepreneurship, especially in agriculture, which is all about quality and territorial identity. Today, 93% of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications have to do with small municipalities; in the same way, 79 percent of the highest quality wines. Therefore, we are not talking at all about a minor Italy, we are not talking about a backward country; we are talking, of course, about areas in difficulty and even marginality, but we are also talking about extraordinary examples of competitiveness, creativity and courage, to which we must respond by offering adequate and equally innovative tools that allow these potentials to express themselves to the full. We must, that is, redirect our gaze and political attention to this Italy, its complexity, its riches and its problems and limits, in order to enable it to express its full potential. We have a delicate task to do: to make a sewing operation of the country in the face of a crisis that has hit hard, widening the distances, the social ones and the territorial ones, and weakening the connective tissue of the communities, unraveling and fraying the system of relations and breaking down the local economies and the enterprises. We must do this bearing in mind that, despite this, this Italy within the crisis has reacted and is reacting. And within this universe of 5,627 municipalities there are some who have returned to growth in the most recent years, because they have been put in place adequate policies for development, starting from local planning. These communities have reacted and others can react thinking about the future, without dispersing anything of their own roots, history and identity. It is in this fruitful encounter between tradition and future that local communities have made system, crossing some of the most interesting and innovative paths, such as the green economy and renewable energies, or identifying and enhancing cultural attractions on which to build sustainable tourism or, again, focusing on quality agri-food, short supply chain and aiming and investing on good practices, transparency and legality. In essence, a significant part of that recovery needed for the country passes from here, from the small municipalities. It passes from these territories, which, then, are the territories of so many of us. I do not think I am exaggerating in saying that this Parliament owes a thought and tribute to the many mayors and local administrators who, in recent years, have done everything possible and also the impossible to respond to the problems and keep their communities together. It is to them that we must lend a helping hand. That is why, with this measure, we finally have the recognition of the national general interest for those who live and work in small municipalities, in rural and mountain areas. Even in a delicate framework of public finance, thanks to the comparison with the Government, we managed to reverse a trend and make it more favourable to the territories, both for the establishment of a national fund for investments that, in any case, will have a multiplier effect, both because this measure traces new lines of work and intervention on which all institutional levels will have to move, competing directly and urging the private to do their part. The attention of the majority for local realities starts from afar: I am thinking of the programs for the 6,000 bell towers, the decree on local authorities last year and the law of stability, which eliminated the Stability Pact; I am thinking of the program "Cantieri in comune," contained in the measure unblocks Italy; I am thinking of the environmental connection, which on environmental heritage and natural capital re-aligns Italy to the most advanced countries of Europe; I am thinking of the program for the internal areas and, finally, the program "Casa Italia". The greatest merit of this measure is the incorporation into the text of certain provisions which had previously been part of the Mountain Framework Act. Both the Law on Small Municipalities and the Law on the Mountain have followed the same rugged fate. The Constitution, in Article 44, provides for special rules on mountain areas, but unfortunately the mountain has remained only on paper a good to protect. In this legislature the Italian mountain is no longer on the agenda: the Fund on the mountain has gone from 60 million euros in 2000 to today's change, forgetting therefore the constitutional dictation. To speak of small municipalities, therefore, means to speak of Mountain Municipalities; of about 8,000 Italian Municipalities, about 4,200 are classified mountain, totally mountain 3,533 and partially mountain 655 Municipalities. What, then, are the positive aspects of the mountain law that became part of the Small Towns Act? Basically two: the first is the concept of marginality as a permanent handicap, which the law, following the Community approach, intends to overcome in equally permanent forms. The text that we are going to approve speaks expressly of municipalities located in areas marked by difficulties of communication and the distance from the large urban centers and municipalities belonging to the Unions of Mountain Municipalities. The second positive aspect is the concept of value: small municipalities are a significant source of resources for the territory, both Italy and the Union, especially in the areas of water, forests, agriculture, landscape, tourism, biodiversity, cultural traditions and typical products. In this sense, what the Union's mountain treaties say also applies to small municipalities: they can contribute effectively to safeguarding, protecting and improving the quality of the environment, protecting human health and ensuring the sustainable management of natural resources. Other points of great value are: the possibility for small municipalities to identify, within their historical centers, areas of particular value in which to carry out integrated public and private interventions aimed at urban recovery and redevelopment; the priority of small municipalities in accessing public funding provided for the implementation of government programmes with priority to computer connections in multifunctional centers; the rules on multifunctionality of post offices as places of payment of taxes and tariffs. With regard to the provisions on the promotion and sale of products coming from short chain or zero kilometer, it should be remembered that these provisions are defined as closing rules of a complex cycle of interventions to protect the typical products and, in general, of the Italian agri-food industry, which not only produced an increase in the export of the sector over 3% last year, but also made the tourism enogastronomico explode. Foreign tourists now crowd the food and wine circuits as much as cities of art. The text is a starting point; it is a text of reordering and simplifying legislation. In the future it will be possible and necessary to improve, especially as regards the amount of funding. For example, a rule on the privileged use of Community resources would be welcome for the future. I therefore reiterate the full support and support of the Popular Alternative for this text. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u222	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u225	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, my speech concerns an interview with Aldo Cazzullo, which appeared today on the evening Corriere in D'Alema, which says that it is generous with people in difficulty, as it was with Craxi. Aldo Cazzullo and the late Gianni Pennacchi were two journalists who were following me when I brought, as mayor of Aulla, honorary citizenship to Bettino Craxi and they knew the truth because they were witnesses of what Craxi thought of the political situation of that moment. The time has come to restore a minimum of historical truth with respect to a page already very dubious in itself of the Italian political and institutional history, on which one continues to speak in a distorted way, even on the part of those of that phase was the protagonist. I am referring, as I said, to Massimo D'Alema, who for some time to this side and, in the last one, this morning, through an interview, thousands of strong attempts to encourage the return of Craxi to Italy to cure him. They are fanciful because the truth is that, as a good communist, D'Alema, in addition to opposing Craxi and all the socialists, hated them, he only harmed them, politically and judicially, and he only and always envied them. That D'Alema tried to bring Craxi back to Italy for the operation and then practice him in emergency conditions in a military hospital in Tunis, we knew. That he found the lack of availability of the Milanese magistrates to allow the patient, as Craxi had absolutely requested, to be hospitalized in a Milanese hospital without tears in front of the room, was also known. I do not understand, however, that the then President of the Council has made it a matter of direct concern. He simply accepted the Milanese Public Prosecutor's Niet. That Craxi for D'Alema has become a left-wing man today is certainly a novelty. He already knew from the eighties of his relations with Arafat, but before that also with the Chilean democrats, with the Spanish and Portuguese socialists in exile, as well as with the Czechoslovak dissidents. Now it has become left-wing because Renzi must be accused of being right-wing. Is it possible that communists or former communists will always admit their mistakes with twenty or thirty years late and only because it suits them? I remember that during the request for permission to proceed against Craxi, D'Alema had the opportunity to accuse him, saying that Craxi's only passion was hatred of the communists. Only after the judicial destruction of the PSI, D'Alema opened a reflection on Craxi's political merits. He did so after the 1994 electoral defeat, I think at the suggestion of socialist Amato, to try to recover the socialist votes ended in Berlusconi, always for convenience, then. In the while - it is well to remember - such Antonio Di Pietro had been nominated by him with the Olive tree, in the armored college of Mugello. The truth is that as a good double agent - we consider him comrade Nizarito, that is, a sect that wanted to strike and destroy Craxi and the socialists - while making his party enjoy Russian funding and cooperatives, D'Alema raised together with his party comrades the existence of a moral issue inside and outside the Italian Parliament, for which he accused Craxi and the socialists. The Communists, including D'Alema, have only taken from Craxi, starting from the entry of the PDS into the Socialist International, made possible by the then leader of the PSI, who, with an act, yes, of great political generosity, allowed its acceptance, while the former PCI were held outside the door with the hat in his hand. It was paid only with rivers of hatred and lies and today it is unacceptable that D'Alema blasphemes claiming to have helped Craxi when he was in trouble, forgetting that he is only taking advantage of his political, judicial and health vicissitudes that managed to enter Palazzo Chigi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u228	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, until a few years ago, politics or part of it placed work and safety at work at the heart of its being because it considered it unacceptable that people could die at work or for work. It was said - I remember well the many conferences and commitments - that reaching zero risk in the area of work safety was almost impossible, but the commitment had to be to go very close. Instead of the current policy, this issue is slipping on in a worrying way, as if there were no cure for the white deaths. From my point of view, this is absurd. We are talking about a real drama, an incivilization that should not be worthy of our country. About three people die a day at work and - be careful - we only talk about deaths recognized by INAIL, that is, they are not declared dead at work who, for example, works in black, is not insured with INAIL or the many whose families have open disputes. As if that were not enough, since the worst is never an end, it is a few days ago the news that unfortunately the deaths at work are even increasing, by 5.2 percent. We're talking about women, men and sometimes guys who leave the house alive to go to work and fall into a coffin: a terrifying thing, just thinking about it. I think it's a defeat for all politics. I dare not imagine what causes such a thing in family members. These days I have read a lot of statements on the subject of death at work and, out of respect for the dead and their families, I do not want to add anything else. I think that politics cannot turn its back on such an important issue, on which it must do more, making a sincere effort and indeed. Look, it's barely enough to make this effort. In the meantime, we are beginning to have respect for workers instead of condemning them to have no rights and, therefore, not to be able to claim safety in the workplace. Anyone who knows the job knows I'm telling the truth. Is this decisive? Definitely not. But it certainly wouldn't hurt, and it would be a start for a real fight against white deaths at work. I wanted to intervene because this is a very important issue that I find unheard of that policy does not take on board. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u229	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-886.ana.u230	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 28 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
