ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:08 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u6	CASINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, in these hours, impressive news is coming from Venezuela... [[Comments]] These are impressive news from all over the world; perhaps for one who has yelled in this House they are not impressive, but one in more than three hundred. For us, they're impressive. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD, FI-PdL XVII, Mixed, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Art.1-MDP and ALA-SCLP.]] Leopoldo Lόpez and the legitimate mayor of Caracas, Antonio Ledezma, who was under house arrest, both members of the opposition, were taken from home this morning at dawn by Bolivarian police forces and do not know where they were taken. I would like the Senate, which was the first voice to stand up for solidarity with Parliament and the Venezuelan people, to send a clear message: the physical safety of these two Venezuelan leaders and leaders is, in full capacity, responsible for President Maduro, for everything that can happen in the next few hours. Families, in fact, ask us to launch this appeal to defend the rights of people and their physical safety. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD, FI-PdL XVII, Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE), Art.1-MDP, and ALA-SCCLP.]] Yesterday President Gentiloni Silveri and our Minister for Foreign Affairs Alfano used clear, clear and transparent words. They spoke of totalitarian and dictatorial drift, with votes imposed on the people of a constituent Assembly that in no way recognizes Europe and Italy. I do not want to disturb the order of business, but I believe that the fact that we have stood here in the Senate today, once again, in solidarity with the Venezuelan Parliament, with the Italians, compatriots, distressed at this time, and with the people who stand in the streets against a dictatorship of the Narco-Military, is an act that ennobles Parliament and our international sensitivity. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD, FI-PdL XVII Mixed, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Art.1-MDP and ALA-SCLP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u9	MAURO Mario (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to reiterate what President Casini has already mentioned. However, I would like others this morning to make their voice heard and to raise the voice of the Italian Parliament in favour of the safety of Venezuelan people, who have many relatives who live in Italy today. Tonight the daughter of Mayor Ledezma, who lives in Italy, sent a massage to many of us. This message is particularly dramatic, because it contains the video of his father's abduction, which took place only a few hours ago. I believe it is a dignified act of our Parliament to make the voice of every political group heard, to protect not only the physical safety of these people, as President Casini has rightly said, but - above all - the right of the Venezuelan people to real free elections (repeat: "real free elections"), so as to allow there to be no state that feels itself in control of their lives. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD, Mixed and LAG groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u12	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, in complete harmony and assonance with what President Casini has said very well in this House. In recent times we have had the opportunity to intervene in the Senate of the Republic about Venezuela, having the awareness that came from the reports of that country, from the opponents and parliamentarians on the run, that we were faced with a drift that would lead to civil war and the end of democracy and dictatorship. We were faced with a very dangerous drift. The first act that President Maduro adopted - I would like to remind the Parliament of the Republic - was to remove immunity from parliamentarians, enabling them to be arrested for their political ideas and political action and put in prison, so that they could not represent the people, despite the opposition having a majority in the Venezuelan Parliament. Now a final act has been taken. Beware, because these acts lead progressively, perhaps on the basis of economic reasons and one of the greatest economic crises that the country has gone through (not only for the responsibility of the governments that have governed it, but also for the development of the international markets), to an authoritarian drift and, then, to a drift that is always called fascist. Well, careful, we will safeguard Parliament's prerogatives and what it represents. In fact, Parliament represents the nation and the people, but also the same concepts of freedom and democracy. In this sense, we are in complete harmony with President Casini and with the words he has spoken about Venezuela, a land that we care about for our compatriots, for that people and for our companies committed there, which, as is well known, are recognized among other things for the very high levels, technological and economic investment. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u15	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we in the Autonomous Group - Socialist Party - MAIE also agree with the words of President Casini and the other colleagues who have already spoken. I cannot, however, fail to recall the facts of this night and not remind this House and all of us that these are things we have already seen: we have already seen them around the world, but we have also seen them in our country (it is only a few months ago the anniversary of the kidnapping of Giacomo Matteotti and his subsequent killing). I agree with the words of President Casini in believing, in case anything happened to these two political representatives of the Venezuelan opposition, as the first responsible - at least as far as we are concerned - President Maduro, who is forcing the regulations, even with the use of military force, questioning the fundamental principles. However, I cannot fail to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the silence of two parliamentary groups in this House, which did not applaud when President Casini referred to the commitment and solidarity of this House towards the opposition and the Venezuelan popular battle for democracy. I do not understand how certain pieces of the Italian left do not associate themselves with this battle of affirmation of democracy and principles of freedom: there can be no interest in shop, there can be no solidarity with other states that at this moment in Venezuela play a game perhaps questionable by Italian political groups. As far as I am concerned, I do not know if my future will still be politically committed in this Parliament, but it will be difficult to share with them political perspectives which at this moment cause them to be divided by a united commitment of this Senate. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP-CpE-NCD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u18	Rossi Luciano (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to pay tribute and credit to President Casini, who in times of unsuspecting suspicion has already urged the Senate on this important and sensitive issue, which also concerns our fellow countrymen who have brought culture, work, honesty, dignity and many examples of what it means to be Italian in that country, so far away but at the same time so close. There is no doubt that the approach, before Chavez and today of Maduro, which was born of a protest without a proposal, led that country, Mr President, the twentieth economy in the world, endowed with extraordinary wealth and great opportunities in all respects, to a devastating and devastating situation. It can't go on like this. I think it is right and proper for the Senate and the Government to commit themselves concretely to sending a strong and clear message of closeness to our fellow countrymen, but at the same time also to President Maduro who cannot go on like this. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and Senator Mauro Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u21	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, on behalf of my Group too, I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, when we were discussing Venezuelan events in this House, we pointed out that the situation was deteriorating as regards the aspects of democracy, freedom and security in that country. It is too long that even citizens of Italian origin have been killed, in the deafening silence of so many institutions, while protesting to defend their rights and their freedom. Today we are in solidarity with what President Casini said, we fully agree with this appeal and we hope that the international community will not be absent from what is happening in Venezuela and that the Italian Government will also make its voice heard in defence of the freedom and democracy of that Parliament and that people, but also in defence of that community of ours that today feels even more abandoned. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u24	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, it is quite natural for me to agree with the statements made by President Casini and his colleagues before me, partly because in the Foreign Affairs Committee, a long time ago, we proposed a resolution which was brought to the attention of this House. In this resolution we denounced the authoritarian and totalitarian process that is in progress in Venezuela. Moreover, as an Italian parliamentarians, we have the advantage that Mr Orellana, who has lived for a long time in Venezuela, sits in this House and gives us daily news and gives us data on the development of the situation. What is the really impressive figure? It is the fact that Maduro is imposing not merely a monopoly of authority, which expels Parliament from its legitimate functions as a representative of the will of the people but, as it were, a political monopoly that removes opponents and contenders from the arena and the political scene. In addition to the fact that the history of these days is studded with accidents, killings, shootings, interventions that humiliate the human dignity and dignity of individual subjects. We also need to report a fact. It is in progress, and many parliamentarians have been victims of it, a sort of mail bombing by our fellow countrymen, who stubbornly insist on denying the reality of the facts, that is, that of a grievous country that is subjected to the process of affirmation of a violent and totalitarian dictatorship. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Comrade.]] It is for these reasons that we want today to reaffirm our solidarity with the Venezuelan people and to draw precisely wishes so that the country can quickly see the restoration of the democratic rule in its fullness. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u27	Tarquinio (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, as usual, although President Casini pointed out this situation a long time ago, we in foreign policy are hesitant and we always express ourselves very late. The Venezuelan tragedy began before Maduro, but so-called demagogic or ideological balances prevented us from talking about it. The interview given this morning by Maduro says something hallucinating: the constituent farce Assembly, which he had elected with all the military and police means available, would serve - he declares it with a unique simplicity - to punish and have all the parliamentarians arrested. Parliament must not be there, Parliament must be silent; there is only its voice. A people reduced to hunger for a long time, for choices that a few years ago were also proud, but then turned out to be disastrous, denying all democracy. But we always talk a little late. We hope that Italy will recover in these years so many silences and so much omerta. In the same way, we do not talk and we do not continue to talk - or do it half-way - about what is happening in Turkey. I am aware of the international balances, such as those of NATO, but these are also acts of cowards, if I may. If we defend democracy, we always defend it, beyond the interests that may exist. That's the real thing. If democracy is to be a front battle and defend it only if it suits us, it is not a battle but a farce and farce are not acceptable. A tragedy is taking place in Venezuela. We must move forward and we too must contribute, together with Europe and all the others, to further heavy sanctions, even if they are hallucinating (other sanctions are imposed on a grieved people), with the hope that this gentleman will go home alone, without further trauma to a country and further victims. In fact, he is only a vulgar dictator of the worst kind. But there are so many of these characters around the world. And if we believe in a true democracy, we must denounce this. How silent tens of thousands of people, magistrates, professors and employees have been arrested in Turkey! And nothing seems to have happened! [[Applause from the GAL Groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI), FL (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Mauro Mario]] We maintain the economic balance, we maintain the balance of NATO: and for what? For whom does he abuse everyone and open and close the doors of his country in terms of blackmail? That's the real thing. So, in general, have courage: Italy is a country in which democracy triumphs and that wants it to triumph everywhere. This is the real battle. Full solidarity with Venezuela and full solidarity with all countries that live that kind of condition! [[Applause from the LAG groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI), FL (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Mauro Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u30	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I and my colleagues in my Group have never, in recent months, had any hesitation in applauding the words of all those who have tried to make an effort to find peace and a shared solution, and they were not secondary characters of the public and political debate that has crossed the world. The first to say things of this kind, that is, to ask that all the actors in the field in the dramatic Venezuelan affair take a step back, was the Pope, with solemn words, declared many months ago with his authority. The second was former Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero, who has been, as we know, for many weeks in that country. He too tried, as far as possible, in a situation that was degenerating day after day, to put diplomatic efforts in place and an attempt to take the country out of the sands of a possible civil war. I say, however, with great frankness - addressing some senator who occasionally, by putting on the field a certain search for propaganda and the instrumentality that may be schooled in this Parliament, omits to talk about things exactly as they are - who I have more doubts about applauding when Venezuela is represented as if there were on the one hand a dictatorial government and, on the other hand, an opposition made up of gentlemen fighting for democracy. I have no hesitation in saying out loud that I context and do not share the behaviour of the Maduro Government. I consider it wrong and I consider it wrong, of course, the repressions of all forms of democratic dissent and I believe that, even with respect to the hopes that had been aroused in the past years by the early years of the Bolivarian revolution and by chavism, these behaviors are very wrong and harmful. But frankly, this idea, which I really only hear in the Italian Parliament because in other countries of the world there is a little less sufficiency on this and a little more deepening, according to which it is pretended that even within the opposition there are not very different behaviors, really scares me. MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). Who are you talking to? De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). The so-called Venezuelan opposition is everything and the opposite of everything. The Venezuelan opposition is certainly represented by young people who manifest themselves in the streets, associations of men and women who fight for democracy and human rights. All our closeness goes to them. But the Venezuelan opposition of these months was also and above all the return of elements known all over the world as recognized fascist coupists. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] People who have been trained in CIA paramilitary schools in Latin America over the past few years and years [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] and that she has been an accomplice to the worst South American dictatorships over the past thirty years. So let us be careful: do we want to think about Venezuela? Let's do this seriously, but let's do it at 360 degrees. [[Comments of Senator Susta]] Let's reason for what happened in Venezuela, for the errors and limitations of the Maduro Government, but frankly this idea really all Italian (which, I insist, finds no evidence in any other part of the world) to consider all that opposition as salvific compared to the Venezuelan situation, really disconcerts me and pains me. [[Senator Susta's comments.]] Much more balance, compared to this Parliament, has shown during these months parliaments of other European countries that, unlike ours, they have remained exactly in the wake of the debate called for by Pope Francis. Since I believe that Pope Francis is a reference of all in this House, it cannot happen that sometimes his words are heard and sometimes, when they bother, they listen less. I always listen to Pope Francis and when he invites us to be careful, not to contribute to the sinking of that country in the civil war, to find solutions and not to imagine a partisan dynamic that can be, yes, the harbinger of an even greater drama for the Venezuelan situation, well I think this is a warning for everyone. I also say this to President Casini: let us talk about this in this House, let us have a serious debate on the Venezuelan issue. For our part there will be no defence of the indefensible and we will put in place all the forms of distance needed towards repressive policies that have nothing to do with what we think, even those of Maduro and a very significant part of his ruling class. But I insist: you cannot make all the players of the Venezuelan opposition, including the fascist coupists, the new champions of democracy; on this, I am sorry, but the Group of the Italian Left expresses a sidereal distance. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Casaletto and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u32	Senator Quagliariello, on this subject?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u33	[[Brusio]] Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, no one has spoken about my Group. I asked her for the floor earlier. I thought I was seen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sadly, I didn't see her. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). It's okay, and I don't feel offended about it. However, I wanted to assure my colleagues that I had asked for the floor in good time. Mr President, on behalf of the Group, I would like to express solidarity with the Venezuelan opposition and the sharing of the words expressed by President Casini. I would also like to make it clear that today we are not talking about errors and limitations of the Maduro Government, but we are talking about declarations and acts that are unbearable and in open conflict with any democratic rule. Mr President, this is not the first time that oppositions have been diversified, but when the opposition is struck, all oppositions are struck and no distinction is allowed. Just as it is not a coincidence that, when this happens, it always happens through an action that first weakens the prerogatives of the parliaments. It happened again this time. All this should lead us, ladies and gentlemen, to two considerations: firstly, to have a great deal of attention for Parliamentarianism, its traditions and its prerogatives, and to condemn those acts of anti-parliamentaryism which are very easy to identify. I note that even in the current debate there is a great deal of attention and condemnation more or less daily for the so-called populism, which is an absolutely uncertain and indefinite category, where instead there is much more tolerance for the attacks on Parliament, both when they are perpetrated in our home, and when it happens in other people's homes, where instead the attack on Parliament, compared to hypothetical populisms, is much easier to identify and also to counter. I believe that Mr Tarquinio is right about this: we should be absolutely strict in this condemnation and we should always show it. It is clear that every situation is different from the other, but when there is an attack on Parliament there is a weakening of democracy. This happened yesterday in Turkey, today in Venezuela. It would be good if the free parliaments were always aware of this, because, where democracy in the world, at least from a nominal point of view, is expanding, parliamentarism is weakening and therefore the quality of democracy and the ability to reject the attacks of its enemies is clearly becoming more feeble. Mr President, on the other hand, this is explained by the knowledge of history and its development. I would like to tell Mr Buemi. They change the acronyms of the parties, very often they change the flags and symbols, they change the rites, but it is much more difficult to change the mentality. It is for this reason that in a debate like today's one it is possible to trace continuity with a past that apparently has passed but that instead, if you consider the mentality, it is a past that does not pass. Mr President, that is why I ask that our guard, the guard of those who love democracy and parliaments, remain high. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and GAL Groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2085-B, already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The speakers, Senators Marino Luigi and Tomaselli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Luigi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u35	Mr President, we are reviewing the text of the draft competition law because, as you know, the House - you have mentioned this - has made five amendments. The first concerns the repeal of paragraph 01 of article 170- bis of the private insurance code, amendment introduced to the Senate, relating to insurance policies of the damage branch of every type contained in paragraph 25. The Chamber of Deputies has repealed the part, introduced precisely by the Senate, which provided that insurance policies branch damages of every type upon their expiry could not be tacitly renewed, bringing the article back to the original text. The second amendment concerns the deletion of paragraph 44, introduced by an amendment of the 5 Star Movement Group, tabled by Senator Girotto, on which we had long debated. It provided that telephone operators were obliged to communicate to the beginning of the conversation a series of identification data of the contracting entity and, moreover, that they could no longer offer subscription services without the prior express and documented consent. The Guarantor for the protection of personal data had already pointed out to the Senate that the wording gave rise to some interpretative problem as it seemed to allow calls even in the absence of the prior consent of the interested party. This would have been contrary to the European privacy directives and so the House has repealed this provision. The third amendment concerns paragraph 60, ex Article 29, relating to the cessation of the regime of greater protection for electricity, on which the Senator Tomaselli will focus more extensively than I do. The fourth amendment, relating to paragraph 153, ex Article 57, concerns the exercise of dental activity also within health facilities. It is a rule that specifies that dental services must be carried out only and only by subjects qualified according to law, but perhaps the House has gone beyond the best intentions, so much so that the 10a The Senate Committee approved a clarifying agenda; otherwise the presence of dental practitioners in public facilities would have been uncertain. These four amendments were approved by the Chamber in the Commission; the Chamber Assembly then amended paragraph 117, ex Article 44, on the rationalization of the fuel network and here again there are probably misunderstandings. During the examination to the Senate the paragraph had been modified by providing for the reclamation of the site only in case of confirmed contamination; the Chamber modified the text by inserting the words "in any case" and this new definition leads to a formulation that arouses some interpretative doubt, just to change. These are the changes made by the House of Deputies to the text approved a few months ago by the Senate. Authors of the majority in the Chamber had accepted the bill on competition approved by the Senate on May 3, with fierce statements about the fact that the Group of absolute majority in the Chamber would approve the measure only in the presence of strong modifications. The same President of the Democratic Party, Father Dead, estimated that there were four small corrections. We consider them differently: there are modest corrections and minor corrections; for example, paragraph 60 on greater protection is not a modest correction. In the Senate in April of this year we suggested a quick passage in 10a Commission to make those changes and improvements that the time span between August 2016 (when the 10th Senate Commission approved the text) and April 2017 (when the Senate Assembly approved the text) would allow, by making a step in the Commission to update the bill. Instead, the government insisted on a rapid transition to the Assembly with a vote of confidence. I thought that the House had also gone before with a vote of confidence, but in that branch of Parliament there was an amendment that required this fourth step. It does not seem to me that the changes made, however, have improved the text. Each of us has an idea of competition and can only be so, because if a closed market is wrong, it is also wrong to have a market without rules and without limits. Each of us has come up with an idea of this bill and, above all, why it took so long to get out of the parliamentary classrooms. There have been many critical assessments of the delay, often infarcite of clichés, banality and prejudices, such as that on the weight of lobbying as a motivation for this delay. It is nonsense, as is folkloristic the list of lobbyists and even the identification of a room-cage where to lock them up, as happened in the House of Deputies, as if there were no telephones and personal contacts outside Parliament. The draft law under discussion has remained firm for a long time because of the needs of politics, not for lobbyists. I would like to add that the areas covered by the text in question have an objective complexity. Consumers must be encouraged, but the system of businesses and other economic operators must not be distorted. We have to cut rents, but not profit. We must recover mistakes that have settled over time, for example the parapharmacies, without reducing hopes and entrepreneurial energies. They are not easy themes and can not always be solved with a touch of magic wand. I do not know whether that legislative provision, which was to be a stimulus and a pungolo to govern the processes, that is to say to implement a competition law every year, is a forecast to be revised. But there is no doubt that there are still areas to be ploughed deep in terms of liberalisation and competition that are practiced and not terrified. In this bill we have addressed for example the issues of RC auto and energy. But how much is there to do about the monopoly action of companies with strong public capital participation, which are concerned, for example, with water and whose average rates have increased in a year, even in ten years, by 90%? If we take the reference year of the referendum on water, i.e. 2011, we note that from then on water tariffs have increased by 43%, with increases higher than any other public service and far higher than consumer price inflation, which stands at around 14%. I spoke about water because it is a topical issue. But waste tariffs have increased in ten years by 52 percent and transport by 30 percent. There are also issues on which the debate and the diversity of views between us, but also the doubt about the positive impact on consumers is an enrichment and not a prejudice or a defence of lobbying interests. For example, the provision on tacit renewal in the insurance field, which is proposed to us by the House (so the House rejected the Senate proposal), will save the consumer or the insured? I think not; I think that RC car rates have decreased, of course, due to the decrease in scams and compensation, but perhaps also because there is no more tacit renewal, which requires the insurance company every year to win back the customer. Then there is the norm on telemarketing, modified also by the House, restoring the previous text and frustrating the action of the Senate. We introduced it by accepting an amendment by the 5 Star Movement Group, to help the consumer and to defend him from the intrusiveness and sometimes aggressiveness of the seller, to protect his consent. The House and also the guarantor, legitimately, consider instead that the effect would be opposite and counterproductive. Then there is the rule on the nullity of the contractual clauses of hoteliers using digital platforms, without even having accepted the introduction of the precautionary clause. Is this really a three-time winning rule, i.e. do consumers win, do hoteliers win and win the Italian State? I don't think so. I think that for hoteliers there could be an increase, an entry fee when they have to access the portals, an infringement procedure could be envisaged for the State, while the customer would probably pay the rooms as before. But I don't have the truth. I don't have the crystal ball. I think that we must respect the rules, especially if contracted between private individuals, and that, in order not to create misunderstandings, over the top digital people must pay taxes in Italy, blocking evasion and avoidance. Then why am I saying this? I say this not to stir up a controversy, but to the opposite. I think that, on competition and on issues so delicate and difficult to discern, the different convictions and critical assessments are all there and on all sides, but it is on the whole of the measure that the judgment must be expressed, because there is no bill on the perfect competition for all palates. Two economic and competition scientists wrote on the evening Corriere that this bill should be approved only in order not to give it to the lobbyists. It is useless to deny it: some lobbyists have obtained what they wanted or reduced the damage (it is inevitable), but this bill must be approved not for what the economic scientists say, but because it represents a further step forward of competition in our country. It will not be an epochal law, but it certainly represents a modern evolution in many areas of economic activity. The balance between the good things, those that could be done better and the forcings is certainly more than positive. It will be an incisive and reformist measure. Making new changes to one or all of the five paragraphs introduced by the Camera in third reading could compromise its goal: it would be the fall of the cyclist in arrival straight. That is why we rapporteurs have asked, together with the Government and the Commissioners of the 10th Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. Consumers, professional groups, the world of production and services, European and international institutions need not referrals, but certainties. We have consumed in abundance the time at our disposal. On the other hand, if Government and Parliament had taken to the letter the existing rules of the Competition Act, we would have had to make the third competition measure today. And by approving this measure today, we do not go back, we do not stand still: we do not make one, but two steps forward in terms of the modernization and competitiveness of our country. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u36	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u37	Mr President, I shall refrain from speaking and postpone my remarks in reply to the general debate. However, I would ask that the written text of my report be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u38	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, with the permission of the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption of the single article of bill No 2085-B, in the text already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u40	The Presidency takes note of the government's position on the matter of trust. The Conference of Leaders is therefore convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.54 a.m. and resumed at 12.13 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u41	Let's resume our work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the draft law for the market and competition in the text already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies. The debate on the question of trust, for which an hour and 30 minutes has been allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups, will take place, until its conclusion, at today's afternoon sitting, beginning at 4 p.m., after the examination of the Senate's internal budget. The explanations of vote will begin tomorrow, in a single sitting without any scheduled closing hours, starting at 9 a.m. He'll follow you then. Tomorrow's agenda also provides - where required by the prescribed number of senators - for discussion on acts of direction relating to Italy's participation in international missions and the examination of the bill of European delegation 2016. Today's afternoon sitting will continue with the resolution on the request for an urgent declaration on the draft law on the abolition of life expectancy. The Assembly will meet again at 5 p.m. on Tuesday 12 September with the President's announcements on the agenda. The Conference of the Leaders is also convened at 3.30 p.m. on Tuesday 12 September. The ordinary activity of the Commissions will resume from Monday 4 September. However, the Commission shall be authorised to convene at any time in relation to any need arising in matters within its competence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u42	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2888, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Cappelletti has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u43	Mr President, I think it is useful to recall briefly the history of this measure in order to better understand its scope and, above all, to understand how we have come to make today's request for an urgent timetable for the measure which has already been approved in the House. As soon as we in the 5 Star Movement entered Parliament, we asked for two things: abolishing the vitality of former Members of Parliament, also applying the contributory recalculation to them, and abolishing the privileged pension of the current Members of Parliament, which is also a masked vitality that puts the honourable Members to retirement at sixty-five years after only four years, six months and one day in Parliament. In essence, we have asked that Members also take their pensions in exactly the same way as all other Italians. In September 2013 the 5 Star Movement filed a motion to put a roof on the vitality and the golden pensions and recalculate the contribution fee. PD and majority voted no. In 2014, during the discussion on the budget of the House and Senate, the 5 Star Movement presented an agenda that provided for a maximum ceiling of 5,000 gross euros to vitalities. The Democratic Party and the majority voted no. On 20 May 2015, the 5 Star Movement submitted an amendment to the Constitutional Reform which was intended to abolish the Constitutional Vitalities. The Democratic Party and the majority voted no. On July 9, 2015, the PD, evidently under pressure, through Matteo Renzi presented the so-called Richetti law, but presented it on television because the law has been lying for years in a drawer, even if it was often used by Renzi himself during the television apparitions to say that the Democratic Party is for overcoming, for repealing. We arrive at us: on April 2, 2017, the 5 Star Movement presented in the Bureau two other agendas, one that applies the Fornero law to the MPs in office and the other that follows the same Richetti law. On the first, once again, the PD voted no because it claimed that an ordinary law was needed. All right, so let's schedule this ordinary law and let's vote it, which has been done also and perhaps especially thanks to the media drive of television broadcasts very followed in the country that have aroused the important attention of the public on this topic. The truth, gentlemen, is that the PD has always opposed it. In the very recent vote in the House, it seemed to be attending a funeral. I understand that for you to give up a right that truly resembles a medieval privilege is an unnatural thing, but you still voted for it in the House, perhaps in the misplaced hope that the bill can be covered up like other dozens of amendments. Now, I understand that democracy is also, and above all, a matter of numbers, but transparency is an important ingredient of democracy. I therefore ask, with the vote on the statement of urgency, to make it clear to all Italian citizens whether or not you are in favour of maintaining this medieval privilege, [[Comments from the Group Art. 1-MDP]] or, at least once, to be consistent with what you have said, i.e. to be in favour of its rapid overcoming. Of the two at one and, if the concept is not clear enough, I repeat it again with your words. I would like to reiterate the reasons for the statement of urgency, by quoting the words used by you, by your Members, by commenting on the vote in favour of the House on the measure. It is you of the Democratic Party who declared: We vote yes, because working to narrow the distance between citizens and politics is crucial for all of us. Good. Another colleague in the House said: We can no longer allow such strong and unjustified unequal treatment. Everyone deserves to retire, but no one can claim to receive more than he has paid. This is the principle that guided us and that saw me signatory to a law that we owe to the country and that I hope will soon find the approval of the Senate. That's what a colleague of yours said in the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We need to vote yes because the point is to understand that inequality is a real evil in our society, which must be tackled with concrete measures that are far from demagogic. Great. But perhaps the clearest of all is Matteo Renzi: "Thanks to Matteo Richetti and the MPs, proud of your work on vitality." The Fornero law, if it applies, applies to all. The same rules for citizens and politicians. President, proud of the work of MPs of the PD on vitality, what work did Matteo Renzi refer to? To what has led, among a thousand obstacles, the bill to be approved in the Chamber or the one of cover-up that is now underway in the Senate and that could begin just today with the rejection of this statement of urgency? You evaluate him. For the country and for Italian citizens all vitalities must be abolished immediately. The 5 Star Movement has no doubt and will vote in favour of the statement of urgency. The other groups will respond to their consciences and, above all, to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u46	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group will vote against the statement of urgency, first of all for a reason of method: this bill has just arrived, we have had many advances from the newspapers, but its content is not yet known. Some colleagues, who have asked specific questions at the Senate Studies Service, have been told that officials still do not have the opportunity to give precise information because the text is complicated and needs to be deepened. If this is true of a study office, it is even more true of every individual Member of Parliament on a matter which is obviously not secondary. Then there is a reason for merit that leads us to make this decision: we are firmly convinced that a principle contained in this rule, namely that of retroactivity, is manifestly unconstitutional. It is not just our conviction, Mr President, but it is a conviction that has been expressed in clear letters by constitutional eximums, former presidents of the Constitutional Court of the right, centre and left. There's obviously a reason. If that is true, we risk a cynical electoral ad on the part of Italian citizens. It does not cost anything to vote for a measure like this if it is certain that the Constitutional Court will intervene, as it has done in the past, to repeal it after a few months. If this were not to happen, Mr President, it would pass a principle - the possibility of intervening retroactively in this matter - which puts the rule of law into question, but even more puts into question the economic certainty of that middle class which was hit hard by the crisis. I would like all my colleagues to take up President Boeri's statement that he wants to reconsider the so-called gold pensions from EUR 3,500. Mr President, a pension of EUR 3,500 is not gold and a state that allows a liquidation such as that granted to a manager such as Cattaneo and questions the certainty of a pension of EUR 3,500 [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi]] ) is a country that is difficult to relate to its citizens. We'd like to avoid that. There is no other reason, except for reasons of fairness, at the basis of our position. Mr President, I say to you in advance, on behalf of all the members of the Group, that if we come to decide, as the Senate, on a well-drafted tax of purpose that is consistent with constitutional principles, or a contribution of solidarity, so that at such a difficult time the Members of this House may have a clear and unequivocal sign, we will be the first to adhere to this proposal and, indeed, we will be involved in it, so that this can be the solution for which we move from the commercials to the real and effective contributions to the Italian citizens. [[Applause from Senators Comrade, Giovanardi and D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u49	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the draft law just arrived from the House, where it has been amended several times in its course, is not yet fully known and the text itself makes it possible to have several points of dubious interpretation. It is therefore difficult to fully express itself on a text designed in such a way. I fear that it is a very short and exclusively media text or a very broad one which goes far beyond what is proposed. There are two cases: the measure will be considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court or not, because it will be considered compatible with the Constitution. If the Constitutional Court declares it unconstitutional, as many constitutional law experts have widely predicted, the measure will not be effective and there will be no cut, right or wrong that they are. The only result will be media and will serve to wave a flag that speaks of about 50 million a year, when then the issues that are worth tens of billions and, sometimes, even hundreds of billions are left aside. However, efforts are being made to focus attention on the 50 million as if they were decisive and not as a start to actions involving much wider and less justified issues than a pension. The word vitality is a useless euphemism. They are called life pensions because this was decided by the House and Senate in the immediate post-war period. It will have no effect other than to provoke distraction from the real and important problems of the country, which are not addressed, so that all attention is placed on this, and the effect will be important. The other hypothesis is that in some way the norms contained in this draft law, once finally approved, are considered compatible with the Constitution. This would open the way to financial implications much more than fifty million a year we are talking about, because we are talking about fifty billion of Italian pensioners. It repeats the slogan that in this way parliamentarians are treated as all other Italian citizens, but I must say that this is absolutely not true. The pensions of parliamentarians are certainly higher than the average pensions of Italians, because the annual income of a parliamentarians is on average higher than that of citizens; however, there are many citizens who receive a pension much higher than that of a parliamentarians, even if they have the longest career in Parliament, even higher than all the parameters of the Fornero law and there are some; there are very few, but I repeat that there are some. It should be remembered that all the more than 20 million pensioners, with the exception of perhaps very few thousands of exceptions, have their pension calculated on the basis of the contributory system from 2011, when the Fornero law came into force in all its various aspects, and with the remuneration calculation for the years previously worked with the related contributions paid. The rules approved by the House, although not very clear in their details, apply not only to those who still have to receive a pension, but also to those who already receive it, including widows and widowers who, like all widows and widows of Italian pensioners, have a share of reversibility, whatever their age: of course we have people of all ages, but above all of a very old age. If this rule is considered constitutional, not only does it open the door, but it is also made almost obligatory - and perhaps someone likes this - to switch to a retroactive contribution recalculation for all the pensions of all Italians, and also for those who today receive the pension, and therefore including widows and widowers who today receive the pension. We believe that it is Parliament's duty to contain expenditure, to remedy certain unjustified parameters, which have all been removed, except in the past. At present, however, the rules are very strict and in many respects they are stricter than the general social security rules and, therefore, we do not consider it useful to discuss this issue as a matter of urgency. There is nothing to prevent us from arguing without the flag of the statement of urgency. You can easily move on to the examination of the measure in title without the useless statement that serves to make a title or a title, depending on the interest of the newspapers to conceal other much more important news. We believe that the action of the past years with which regulation has been taken since 2011 has been positive and that rules have also been introduced for the past: I am thinking of the incompatibility of the Member's pension with positions that still hold outside Parliament - previously not so - as well as the limit to the accumulations and so on. However, we do not think that we can go along with a purely propaganda manoeuvre which endangers the amount of pensions of tens of millions of Italians. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote against the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u52	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I agree with what Senator Quagliariello has said, because we have not yet been given the opportunity to evaluate the text, first of all from the point of view of its constitutionality, which is being questioned - as my colleagues have said - by constitutional experts. I have only one first consideration: the colleague of the 5 Star Movement speaks of equality of all citizens, and therefore also of parliamentarians, from the point of view of social security. Then I ask my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement: don't you think, at the time when a rule with retroactive effects is adopted, that you achieve a difference of treatment towards those who, knowing that they have the contributory system in the past years, have considered to redeem, for example, the years of graduation, military service and whatever else, in order to organize their social security system to its advantage? Today, the Member who sees himself applying the contributory system retroactively, what chance does he have to do the same thing that all the citizens who had that contributory system did? Such a measure should then be accompanied by a re-opening of the deadlines for Members who are now seeing retroactive application of a contributory system. They too must be given the opportunity to take advantage of those facilities which all citizens, with that system, have enjoyed. You haven't thought about that. You imagined only riding the wave that came - as my colleague said earlier - from well-known television broadcasts, followed by millions of Italians. But led by whom? I don't want to be vulgar, I don't want to make a distinction between me and someone who does a different business than mine. But who traveled and denounced these facts almost every Sunday? Who, in order to conduct a national singing event in our country, has earned 650,000 euros for five days of work from Italian money? If we really have to protect the money of the Italians, then we start to see how it is spent and by whom it is collected. They are cashed in and pocketed by those who then go on television to criticize the vitality of Members. Gentlemen, regardless of the merit, which will not fail to be attended by me also from the exquisitely technical point of view, today I say: where is the urgency? The urgency concerns forest fires and people who do not arrive at the end of the month. We have so many measures and we imagine that we urgently want to dismiss such a measure only in order to give a chance of electoral marches to certain political forces. Then seek before studying the measure well, so that it is not censored by the Constitutional Court. Let's be serious. Let us ensure that Parliament does not hear, once again, from the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court that this is a wrong measure. For this reason, we say no, a firm and convinced no. With courage we say no today to the vote on the statement of urgency. We will then reserve the right to examine the measure and assess whether everyone is really on the same level, Members of Parliament and citizens, because I agree with the 5 Star Movement on this point: all the same Italian citizens must be, but they must really be. And let us pay attention, because the provision that came here from the House seems to me not to respect the principle of equality. Of course, I will go into this subject further and possibly, if you convince me and my groupmates, we will vote on it - why not - but we will vote on it only when we are convinced of the goodness of the measure in terms of its constitutionality, merit and equality of all citizens in the face of the social security system. For these reasons, in the state, let us say no to the statement of urgency. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u55	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the PSI-MAIE Group does not see any need for an abbreviation of the timing of the examination of the measure in the Commission. On the other hand, we believe that this issue deserves serious consideration, not least because we are dealing with very sensitive issues, especially given that the draft law under consideration has a major impact on the acquired rights of former Members of Parliament. It is therefore not a question of covering up the matter, but of carefully evaluating it, of making a law done well, and not ending up before the Constitutional Court, risking a great mess. I would remind my colleagues that a similar question was raised in the Trentino-Alto Adige Region, where the Regional Council approved a reform applicable ex post to former regional councillors, where 20% was expected to be reduced; but already two judges referred the matter to the Court, considering the new regime in contrast to the criteria laid down by the Constitutional Court in this matter. It is also a question of legal civilisation for us and we believe that constitutional principles must apply to all citizens, including parliamentarians and former Members of Parliament. That is why we shall be voting no to the request for urgency made by the Five Star Movement. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u58	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am voting against the 5 Star Movement's proposal, which I would like to discuss very quickly. I would point out that my parliamentary group in the House voted in favour of this measure and I would add that my parliamentary group, also here in the Upper House, the Senate, will work with commitment over the next few weeks and months to ensure that a measure is adopted capable of putting in place an element of greater equity and equality and that it reduces those benefits which - rightly, in our view - in the eyes of a large part of the population of our country appear as an unbearable privilege. I also believe - and I address those concerned colleagues who feel in some way that there is a risk of measures affecting certain more general aspects - that policy really should set a good example in this respect. There's nothing to do. When you make politics and you run to represent the citizens of this country, in the House or in the Senate; when you vote the laws; when you are forced - as has happened in the past years - to ask the people of our country also for sacrifices compared to what happens, there is little to do: either you are able to give the good example to the full, or you lose credibility. And since we live in a historical phase in which the credibility of politics - not simply in our country, but it is obviously a global problem - is put at risk in a very, very significant way, I believe that Chamber and Senate must really do everything to put in place elements of transparency and equality, to reduce privileges. Therefore, I believe that, even on aspects such as this, the path begun in the House, which saw my party vote in favour, is fair and acceptable. However, I would like to add - and this is why I am expressing, in relation to the statement of urgency, and not to the substance of the text, an element of opposition - that, precisely in order for this to happen, I think that this must be done in a very serious way, keeping the level of propaganda low. I understand that propaganda has won many votes; it is a national sport that has been going on for many months. Mr President, I defended the dignity of this Senate from those who wanted to abolish it with the constitutional referendum in a sudden way. And I defended it with my colleagues in my group when I supported the need, even today, for a centrality of bicameralism. I would therefore find it very contradictory if the Senate were to play a role today as a letterhead, if it could not even enter into the substance of the matter, which is serious. I turn to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, and I can afford it, because my parliamentary group and I - by chance - are the ones who earn less in Parliament. When, at the end of the month, payrolls arrive, it turns out, perhaps in a quieter way (maybe without shaking this as a propaganda factor, because we come from another political culture), that ours are the lowest of all: we also finance projects and even 70% of our monthly allowance is used for this. So I can say that some elements of discussion that have emerged deserve at least a deepening and reasoning from the Senate. I am in favour of the provision approved by the House, but I will be barricades if someone thinks they can use it as a lump to attack the normal pensions of the Italians. If someone, that is, thinks - and I am not referring to the Members of Parliament, who, precisely, must set a good example, even at the risk of having certain elements that are very specific to the normal history of our country's pension - to be able to use this instrument as a means of attacking the pensions of ordinary people, of all those who today with the pension very often also cover their children and their grandchildren without work, making it an essential contribution to the social state, we will make barricades. Do we, then, have the right, when we are debating in this House, to understand how we are not simply building a measure that is at risk of unconstitutionality, but also a measure that does not open up to this kind of hypothesis? It seems to me very serious and I believe, therefore, that the Senate must act within two parameters that are: on the one hand, the frontal and radical attack on any form of unbearable privilege and, therefore, the Senate must continue along the path undertaken by the Chamber of Deputies; on the other hand, however, for once, it must put propaganda aside and try to do something serious for the country and also for the credibility of its ruling class. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u61	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, in this debate I listened to a number of speeches which dealt with the substance of the draft law on the vitality of Members and regional advisers. However, today we are called to debate and vote not on the substance, but on the request to adopt an urgent procedure for a measure of which everyone - as demonstrated by the debate we have heard - recognizes the importance and sensitivity of the matter. The request for urgency comes from the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, which - I would like to stress this, as this is the only opportunity I have to do so - is the only Group that has not taken the floor this morning to condemn the Venezuelan regime of Maduro. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Pietro and Mazzoni]] The request then arrives at the end of July, 24 hours before the closure of the Senate for the August holidays. If the House were to accept this request, the debate in the Commission, to which the measure was assigned just this morning, could not begin until next September. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] CASTALDI (M5S). That's not true! ZANDA (PD). If that is the case - and that is exactly the case - why should we now, just a few hours after the suspension of our work, submit an urgent request? [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Because, with this procedural debate, we are delaying - as we are doing - the start of the final debate on a very important measure, such as the one on competition, which is so awaited... CRIMI (M5S). You put your trust in it! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u62	Please, colleagues, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u63	ZANDA (PD). Please, as you know, I never interrupt anyone. Don't make me answer for the rhymes. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u64	Senator Airola, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u65	AIROLA (M5S). Cut it out! ZANDA (PD). Let me talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. He doesn't have the word. I'll call you back to order. (Senator Paglini takes video footage of the Assembly with a mobile phone). Colleagues, as you know, shooting is not allowed. WOMAN (M5S). You can't even get threats! [[Senator Airola's comments.]] MIRABELLI (PD). Learn to listen! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can we continue? Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Why this reversal of priorities from measures affecting Italian citizens to a debate on palace procedures? I believe that in the answer to these questions there is the main reason why the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party will reject the request for urgency... LUCIDI (M5S). To go to the beach! ZANDA (PD). The 5 Star Movement continues to practice a parliamentary policy that - it is clear - focuses not on what is most urgent to solve the problems of Italy, as to what it can use to beat the grandcassa of propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Pietro and Falanga.]] And the request for urgency they have made has a clear objective: they want to appear in the eyes of the Italian public as the champions of anti-politics, anti-partyism and as representatives of the anti-system forces. That's the goal. AIROLA (M5S). Honest! Mr Caleo (PD). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caleo, please. WOMAN (M5S). Calm down! ZANDA (PD) Please! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! Senator Airola, I'm wary of you. Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, if that is the case, it is good that we agree on the principles and ways in which our debate on Members' pensions will have to be regulated, starting with the very fact that we must stop calling what has been transformed by Parliament since 2012 into a regular contributory pension system. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] The Senators and Senators of the PD want to examine with respect and attention a measure so important that comes to us from the House with the vote of the MPs of the Democratic Party and with our first signature, and certainly not that of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic comments and applause from the M5S Group.]] The Senate must not prolong the discussion and it will not, but it must not cut it off artificially. In the Senate, in this legislature, the Democratic Party has never - and I say never - practiced obstructive techniques that, instead, are used continuously by those who today ask for urgency. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments by Senators Cioffi and Castaldi.]] And we never did, and we certainly won't now. On the contrary, we will ensure that work is carried out regularly in the Commission and in this House. Like all the measures, we want to examine this with the necessary scrupulousness, studying its content and effects, assessing its impact on the parliamentary system and the constitutional aspects, which are certainly not secondary aspects and which the Commission has the primary duty to assess with the necessary attention. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] He now recalled Senator De Cristofaro that the referendum of December 4 clearly stated that the Italians want to preserve the bicameral system equal. WOMAN (M5S). The law is yours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, please. ZANDA (PD). Those who, like me, voted yes to reform must be the first to be very strict in respecting the will of the voters. [[Applause from Senators Lezzi and Lucidi.]] But even those who, like the 5 Star Movement, voted no have a moral obligation to respect the substance and not only the propaganda of the meaning and spirit of bicameralism. One House, that of the Members, before a difficult measure, has discussed for years; the other House, the Senate, is instead urged to vote in a very short time, immediately, already on September 1 - as I heard from the opposition - and this does not correspond to the model of bicameralism that the referendum has confirmed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It is significant that the 5 Star Movement, which in the squares made no to the referendum its flag, today, with such an untimely and sterile request for urgency, wants to impose a procedure that would reduce the senate's work to that of a mere letterpaper, committed more in respect... [[Comments by Senators Cioffi, Donno and Lucidi.]] PETROCELLI (M5S). They've passed the cards on everything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, I'm calling you back to order. Don't interrupt. Ask for the word whenever you want, but don't interrupt. Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). ...a Senate that you would like to be committed to respecting an imposed speed and not to the study of the measure. I have finished, Mr President, but a political consideration must be made at the close of the debate. There is a great deal to be done so that those who preach a democracy in which a click counts more than the will of Members can appreciate the maturity of a representative parliamentary democracy and the positive sense of its procedures. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senator D'Alì. Comments of Senator Paglini]] The tragic events of the city of Rome [[.. (Live comments and protests from the M5S Group.]] MORONESE (M5S). But you did it! [[Comments from Senators Cioffi and Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u66	Senator Cioffi and Senator Petrocelli, I call you to order! PETROCELLI (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petrocelli, I'll call you back to order for the second time! (Some Senators of the M5S Group report to the Presidency that Senator Orellana is filming the Assembly with his mobile phone.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orellana, shooting is not allowed in the Chamber. Mr Russo (PD). Mr. President, you're throwing them out! TAVERNA (M5S). Buffoons! CASTALDI (M5S). Buffoons!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u67	[[Senator Buemi's comments.]] ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I must say that they really do not realize that they are using regime methods. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and Senator Bencini.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, make it stop! (The M5S Group sings stage choirs.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, that's enough! We must conclude this debate! You know that the House and Senate Committees are being convened shortly, waiting for your contribution. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have to finish my speech. I was referring to the tragic events of the city of Rome, which tell us something clear... CASTALDI (M5S). Stop! That's the third time you've said that! [[Comments and protests of Senators Catalfo and Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u68	Let Senator Zanda speak. You can't keep interrupting those who intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u69	LUCIDES (M5S). What's Rome got to do with it? CASTALDI (M5S). What's Rome got to do with it? Let us respect the cards, Mr President, which are yours. ZANDA (PD). I will no longer quote Rome then. Those events tell us that when someone talks about direct democracy we have to understand that he wants it directed by other centres of power. He wants me to go to Parliament from somewhere else. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE), FL (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Fucksia.]] Mr President, the bill on the pensions of Members of Parliament will then take its regular, rigorous course in the Senate, without any slowing down and without any tricks, neither to hinder its treatment nor to change its path. The Senators of the Democratic Party have only one request to make on this measure: that it be examined seriously, carefully, carefully and without demagogy. [[Senator Donno's comments.]] And that the Senate's democratic debate is also lively but always remains within the civil behavior that I have not seen this morning and that is the only known way to build good measures. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups). Senators of the M5S Group display signs with the inscription "STOP VITALIZI SUBITO".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u70	I invite Senators Quaestors and Assistants to intervene to remove those cartels. I also invite the Leader of the 5 Star Movement to maintain order in its Group. (From the PD Group the chorus is played: "Buffoni, buffoons, buffoons." From the M5S Group, the chorus is played: "Thieves, thieves, thieves").
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u72	The debate is closed, Senator Montevecchi. What do you want to do about it? Montevecchi (M5S). On the order of business and on a personal note, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u73	[[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u74	Quiet! You can now comment on the order of business. Personally, he will speak at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u75	You have it, Senator Montevecchi. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr. President, Senator Zanda has had a few words... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u76	This issue does not concern the order of business. It's an intervention on merit. Senator Montevecchi, if you want to intervene on a personal basis you can do so at the end of the session, as always happens. [[Protests of Senators Cioffi, Puglia and Santangelo]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Fat, you're the problem! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law n. 2888, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] WOMAN (M5S). It's not your order! SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u79	[[Comments of Senator Montevecchi. Senator Airola points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Montevecchi, you can intervene at the end of the session like everyone else. [[Brusio]] NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to wait a moment for the House to calm down. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, you can start. I beg colleagues to step away in silence. NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to denounce the very serious environmental situation in Aprilia. First of all, I would like to point out the numerous exhibits presented by various citizens, individuals and associates, supported by massive documentation on problems related to environmental violations that have been completely ignored to date. I myself raised with an inspection the situation of agricultural land in Via Nettunense 102 in which there had been an illegal activity of storage and trade of chemicals for industry and agriculture, as well as special hazardous and toxic waste of various kinds. I asked Minister Galletti for urgent initiatives to ensure that a route is planned to ensure the removal of the waste present in the area, the subsequent reclamation and restoration of the status of the sites, as well as the verification of the contamination status of the area. A few days after my question, she was kidnapped in the territory of Aprilia, in the locality of Tufetto - an area subject to hydrological constraint - a huge illegal dump. The mineral water whose source is located on site is not bottled, but until a few days ago it was freely used by the citizens of the area. Operation Dark Side has led to sixteen detention orders in prison and six residence bans, more kidnappings of companies, buildings, land, vehicles, bank accounts and cash for 15 million euros. Crimes are hypothesized ranging from criminal association to illicit trafficking in waste, fictitious heading of goods and self-laundering. But, apart from the site of via Nettunense and other than that of the quarry, there are many other episodes for which in our opinion we can rethink the need to ask for a police station. There's illegal landfills to clean up since the late '80s. We are at the door of an environmental disaster that can be certified as follows: in Aprilia there are five illegal landfills with high priority waiting for reclamation for more than twenty years, of which it was and is aware also the Lazio Region. There are also four high priority landfills in the same situation, dozens of sites waiting to be included in the list of reclamations, including that of Via Nettunense, kidnapped for four years. The so-called Seveso legislation is not respected, there has never been a single exercise, and emergency plans are not available. Ultimately in Aprilia (but not only there of course) laxity and carelessness on aspects so fundamental for the protection of public health and environmental protection are no longer tolerable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u82	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to begin by apologizing, because I did not follow your instructions promptly before. Unfortunately, I am not the only one who occasionally transcends this House. I should like to go straight to the point: I would like to thank my fellow Members who expressed solidarity with the two Venezuelan politicians who were kidnapped during this night. I thank those who have condemned this authoritarian drift and I also thank those who have called for an open and in-depth debate on Venezuela, like Mr De Cristofaro, because I am sure that he has done so in perfect good faith. I remember, however, that a very serious event took place on Sunday: a small minority of Venezuelans went to the vote and elected a group of 545 people to form a so-called Constituent, characterized by the presence of representatives of the corporations with a prohibition of party affiliations. For the umpteenth time Parliament was expelled, elected by universal suffrage a year and a half ago. In its place there is now an illegitimately consecrated Constituent (I remember that it should have been preceded by a referendum) and that was not the case. From our comfortable armchairs we can exquisite now on this or that statement by opposition representatives, on this that political orientation, but remains the incontrovertible and incontrovertible fact of the end of democracy in Venezuela. I say this with a broken heart, because the pain is very strong for this situation: we are returning to the dark years of the dictatorship of the fifties. That must be clear to everyone. Italy must take a clear position and absolutely contrary to this Constitution, as other European countries have done and not only European countries. I believe that we have reached a turning point where there can no longer be any hesitation and the condemnation must be firm and absolute.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u85	Montevecchi (M5S). But wasn't the session over at 1 p.m.? [[Comments of Senator Cirinna]] LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I did not want you to spend the day without mentioning in this House the figure of Nicola Cipolla, who died at the age of 95. Another personality and protagonist of the long and troubled path of Italian democracy and the equally troubled and tragic path of Sicilian politics is extinguished. Nicola Cipolla was born in the city of Pirandello, in Agrigento, where his youth passed. He moved with his family to Palermo, where he had classmates of personality and the likes of Napoleon Colayanni, Enzo Sellerio, Nino Sorgi, at the Liceo Classico "Umberto I" in Palermo. It was also an opportunity for him to enter the cultural temperie of his time, but also to know and appreciate the Marxist culture. With the end of fascism the new season of hope opened and Cipolla joined the PSI and was one of the founders of the Labour Front. Today it rests in the fiery chamber of the CGIL of Palermo, which then, in 1944, helped to reopen together with Cesare Cessa. In 1946 onion engaged in a battle against the then mayor of Palermo Rocco Gullo, also socialist, but considered close to mafia environments. With Mario Mineo, Napoleon Colayanni, Enzo Sellerio and Peppe Fazio managed to get expelled from the PSI Gullo; then the mayor of Palermo was reinstated in the Socialist Party and had elected in the Constitution. Onion decided to break with his party and joined the Communist Party, led in Sicily by another strong and charismatic personality, Girolamo Li Causi. Its path starts through trade union work in the heart of the social structure of the Mezzogiorno, agriculture, where young ruling classes were forged. Just think about everything about the same Pio La Torre. In 1947 he was elected secretary responsible for the prestigious Federterra. Thus began the epic of the peasant struggles with the occupation of the uncultivated lands of the great and exterminated feuds and for the agrarian reform, the mother of all reforms. Between 1949 and 1950, together with Pio La Torre, he lived the struggles for the land in Corleone, having behind him the memory of Bernardino Verro, who at the beginning of the twentieth century was the protagonist of the first cycle of peasant struggles through that vast and rich movement of the Sicilian Fasci. Also in Corleone he knew personalities of the calibre of Placido Rizzotto, also having in front of him in the months of that time the so-called first massacres of State with the extermination of the best leaders and leaders at the hands of the mafia, of the reactionary agrarians, of the institutions collusion, until reaching the massacre of Portella della Ginestra, what is now commonly defined the first massacre of State. From the peasant struggles to the presence of the regional assembly the passage was short, of which he was a deputy in three legislatures: in II, III and IV, from 1951 to 1963. In 1963 he arrived in this Senate Hall in the ranks of the Communist Party, candidate in the college of Sciacca, a very progressive province at that time. He was confirmed senator in 1968 and from 1 July 1963 until 14 November 1967 he was secretary of the Group of the Communist Party, a role that imposes very strict organizational and political capacity. In 1972, at his third legislature, he was confirmed in the Senate in the other progressive college of Ragusa. From 1972 to 1976 he was a member of the Italian representation in the European Parliament. In 1981 he founded the Centre for Economic Policy Studies in Sicily (CEPES). Thus he devoted himself to the themes of the peace movement and, recently, to the current ones of sustainable development, a beautiful memory for today's burning of design culture and healthy political passions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u88	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I would like to remind you that in recent days the issue of the malfunctioning of the Roman public transport company ATAC has returned to the fore, which this House, in October 2016, approved an agenda, linked to motion 1-00619, whose signatories, in addition to myself, were my colleagues Aracri and Augello but which was widely shared in this House, in which the situation was described at the stage of the debate and what would have happened in the absence of serious measures on the company. One year after that discussion and the approval of that agenda, today the request of the Capitoline administration and the mayor Raggi for economic aid from the government returns overwhelmingly. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that the only possibility for the Italian Government to support and give resources to a public company, but not owned by the State, is the following. The operative part of the abovementioned agenda was as follows: In order to assess the possibility of temporarily placing the participation of the ATAC within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, entrusting simultaneously to a technical structure chosen ad hoc the task of industrial and patrimonial consolidation of the company. I would like to say this, Mr President, because, considering and continuing to believe that ATAC is a public heritage of the country and that it is not a public transport company like the others, because it serves the Capital of Italy and therefore not only the Roman citizens, I would ask you to send the Ministry news of this act of address (expected that time makes even memories disappear), in order to respond exactly to its content. That is, if there is the possibility of helping Rome, this can only be done by subjecting the company ATAC to a commissioner management of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. If I am unable to do so at municipal level, I believe that the Government should raise the problem of doing so, in response to an agenda on which, as I said, I have worked in particular with Senators Aracri and Augello.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-08-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-869.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. In view of what was agreed by the Conference of Leaders, I would remind you that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.22 p.m.
