ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 21 December 2016. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u4	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 624.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u7	MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak on the agenda in order to make it known, as it is useful for the debate in this House, that the Bureau of the 6th Commission, at yesterday's sitting, decided on the conclusion of the survey on the conditions of the Italian banking and financial system and the protection of savings, including with regard to supervision, resolution of the crisis and the guarantee of European deposits. I wanted to quote this title because I also wanted to make it clear the scope of the work that had been set. This survey was launched in February 2016 and held 23 hearings involving representatives of the supervisory board of the ECB, the judiciary, the Bank of Italy and trade associations. The survey was considered prodromic to the Committee of Inquiry desired in several draft laws. As I said yesterday, the Bureau, even in the light of the debate that had developed both in this House and in the media, felt that it was not appropriate to restrict the scope of action to one subject and, at the same time, that the work previously carried out was not even frustrated: this is our second cognitive survey. Above all - and I would like to stress this because several times we have spoken about it in this House and I have only allowed myself to speak once - it was done in the spirit of making immediately operational the search for transparency which we considered necessary for such a sensitive issue. As I said, therefore, the Office has decided on the conclusion, by establishing the submission of the final report for 17 January, the vote on the final report for 25 January and the opening of the legislative procedure for the Commission of Inquiry in 6th Commission on 31 January with the filing of a unified basic text resulting from the 13 draft laws submitted to establish the Parliamentary Commission. I also remember them to explain the ratio of the proposal: two of these draft laws concern the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, one the Banco di Desio e della Brianza, four the four banks put in resolution, four the banking system in general and two the Banca People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank. As I said, the desire to be able to deal with all this, continuing an action that has been successfully carried out with the cooperation of all the Commissioners, has led us to this resolution. I wanted to inform the House of these determinations, hoping that they could be a useful element for the debate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 92 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, one Senator per Group may speak on the intervention of Senator Marino.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, let me first express my wish for a speedy recovery to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Paolo Gentiloni, whom we know we have had a slight illness just now, fortunately, overcome. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco]] Having heard President Marino's speech, I would first of all like to make two comments: firstly, yesterday both the Chamber of the Chamber and the Senate had on the agenda, at the same time, the issue of the Committee of Inquiry into Banks: It can happen, and it happened yesterday. I also note that 13 draft laws have been presented in the Senate with regard to the Committee of Inquiry. These draft laws have all been combined, as we heard earlier by President Marino, to be discussed together, as is logical and as our Regulations provide. We have just heard that, following a serious and necessary investigation, the Finance Commission will urgently begin, as of 31 January, the examination of a text which takes account of the content of these 13 draft laws. Today, however, we are called upon to express ourselves on the urgency, in fact surpassed by the decision of the Finance Committee, of a single draft law which represents only part of the legislative initiatives before the Senate. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. I would briefly like to make a final comment, because the subject we are dealing with is very important. Our top priority is full transparency. This is the objective and this is the first reason why the Senators of the Democratic Party Group presented, among the first, more than a year ago, a proposal from the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. We therefore call for transparency and nothing else. Parliament and the Italians must know why some of our banks have gone into crisis and understand what remedies are being prepared. We also have a deep respect for the Italian banking system, of which we know the overall positive condition and of which we know very well the delicate role for our economy and stability and also for our national security, which precisely in these hours we see seriously undermined on other and equally delicate sectors. In such difficult times as ours, Mr President, the Commission of Inquiry will therefore have to find a legal way of achieving the maximum result in terms of transparency, keeping the strength, credibility and prestige of our banking system intact. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u14	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too would like to express my solidarity with the President-in-Office of the Council, who has had a very small speech this morning. Having been through it personally, I can understand even better. The President of the Finance Committee explained to us the conclusions of the investigation and also made the proposal, which we agree at this point, of a basic text to be presented - if I understood correctly - on 31st of this month, taking into account the fact, Mr Zanda, that at the moment the mechanism of equal bicameralism, as it has remained after the referendum, allows this House to speak of the Commission of Inquiry; but yesterday the House unanimously approved, on a proposal from the homologist of Forza Italia, President Brunetta, a motion - I read the final part of the device - which commits itself, each for its own competence, to decide on the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the state of the Italian banking system. The Presidents of the two Chambers will have to decide which Chamber will be invested at first reading of the examination of the measure on the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry. We also agree that the urgency procedure concerns the 13 draft laws which provide for a Commission of Inquiry. As President Marino mentioned earlier, some are interested in particular situations and others in other banks, but in the end it is right that there should be a comprehensive bill covering an investigation, which is the subject of the Commission of inquiry, on the whole banking system in the evolution it has undergone and in the parts that have posed a problem for the savers who have invested. We also agree that the urgency procedure, at this point in the Senate's work, covers all legislative initiatives that could eventually determine the proposal and the presentation of a single basic text on the evolution and what has happened in the Italian banking system in recent years. President Zanda, then the two rooms will decide what is the initial path that will have to be made. I am simply saying that, given that we have the measure on MPS and multi-pronge in this House, it could be correct in the overall budget that the House is dealing at first reading with the draft law establishing the Commission of Inquiry, otherwise we would be crowding this branch of Parliament to the detriment of the other. However, it is a problem of regulations or agreements between the Chambers. We are in any case in agreement - as I wanted to stress in my speech - on the establishment of the Commission and on the acceptance of the urgency procedure with regard to all 13 draft legislation submitted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u17	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, it is very true that we in the Finance Committee have carried out a cognitive survey of the banking system; indeed, we have carried out two cognitive investigations in two years. The urgency procedure, however, means half-time, we know that very well; otherwise it is useless to disappoint the urgency. A motion to commit the House itself has been approved in the House. We know very well - and we have already seen this with advertising on gambling - that, when the two chambers are engaged on the same subject and when there is urgency on the same subject in the two branches of Parliament, everything is blocked. I would therefore not like this to be a game and then slow down the actual constitution of the Commission of Inquiry. We decided in the Bureau that, if there were no urgency, we would leave on 31 January. I believe that, since we have the measure saves banks in the Commission, the urgency can be fixed, starting from 31 January, in order to achieve a single text aimed at establishing a Commission of Inquiry. But at the beginning of March we have to be in this House discussing it, whether there is a text or not, because otherwise it is the usual launch of the news that the majority in some way agrees to defend Italian citizens, but then everything freezes. We are therefore in favour of uniting the texts and amending the text, but we want to be the Commission of Inquiry at once, and we want the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry to be approved in this House at the beginning of March, and then the second move to the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u18	The Presidency supports the wish expressed by the President-in-Office of the Council. We know that it is already operational, so its conditions allow it to carry out its activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u21	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, of course, the Group of the North Legacy is also in favour of addressing the issue of the Commission of Inquiry in its complexity and not only in relation to the situation of the Monte dei Paschi, which may be the most serious, but is not the only problem of the Italian banking world. It is right to make an overall reflection, but I would also like to say to the President of the Democratic Party Group that it is not the Democratic Party that is speeding up here, because the Democratic Party has kept the procedure for the approval of this Commission of Inquiry in the Finance Committee for a year. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It has been more than a year since November 2015, when the legislative proposals have been filed. We immediately stated in the Finance Committee that there was no point in carrying out a survey, with 23 hearings, to launch this type of Commission of Inquiry, because it had already been carried out. It was an unnecessary repetition, consciously carried out by the Democratic Party with only one intent, dilatory and postponement, not to address this delicate issue. We have lost more than a year for your responsibility. Now there is a sudden acceleration on your part, after the meeting in the direction of the Democratic Party in the Nazarene. But, honestly, let us say that the Democratic Party is determined to go in this direction, that it wants to speed up and that it does not fear transparency contrasts with what has been the reality of the facts in the last thirteen months, months of inactivity, inertia and guilty delays, during which the situation in the banking world has not improved, but has even worsened. Therefore, no more guilty delays; surely we must speed up. At this point we are also asking for certainty because we are obviously at the end of the parliamentary term and we are probably even more than time. I would like to make one final point: we believe that, after a year of discussing this issue in the Finance Committee, with a whole series of hearings, the place to initiate the procedure for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry should be the Senate, unless that work is put to good use and is thrown to the wind with an iter that will have to start again in the House of Deputies. I shall conclude my speech by trusting that this implementation will be carried out in an accelerated manner, as requested by my colleague from the 5 Star Movement, without unnecessary delay. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u24	Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE also supports the request for the joint discussion of the 13 draft laws, among which there is also a draft law at the first signature of our Group's colleague Buemi. We also hope that these texts will soon be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we agree that this House should be able to vote on the urgency procedure for all the long-standing draft legislation which calls for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the various cases which have, alas, occurred in the last two years of crisis. A very serious crisis that has involved - I would like to remind you here - not only MPS but we could mention the most significant cases: from the Marche bank to the Etruria People's Bank, the Ferrara Savings Bank and the Chieti bank; Banca Popolare di Vicenza, Banco di Desio e della Brianza, Veneto Banca. Unfortunately, we have a very complex situation of suffering that is not just MPS. This work, with the commitment that - apparently - today the Senate will take on with the vote, arrives with some delay. I want to stress this because yesterday too, during the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the decree-law saves banks, we pointed out that for a long time there was a guilty inertia on the part of the Renzi Government. I would like to remind you that throughout the past year we have heard repeated assurances from the Government, in particular from Minister Padoan (who was repeated yesterday for the truth), about the solidity of our banking system. Even the public intervention put in place with the decree-law was, alas, late and this, in our opinion, has also raised the costs of the intervention itself. We have an absolute need for transparency and we will be tabling an amendment to the measure which will finally make clear to all the names of the big insolvent debtors. We believe that it is absolutely necessary - but also in this case, alas, late - to set up a committee of inquiry on what has happened: oversight omissions and causes that have led to this situation. For all these reasons, it is up to Parliament - at this point in the Senate - to clarify as soon as possible all the events that have taken place - I repeat - not only MPS but also other banks. The Commission will also have to check - and it is clear - the responsibility of the directors, managers and also the supervisory activity or the lack of supervisory activity. As regards the question of the conjunction with the decision of the House, I would remind you that yesterday the House of Deputies approved a motion committing Parliament to examine a draft law concerning the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry. I believe that if we vote today in favour of the statement of urgency on a unified text we will be able to take a step forward faster and the time indicated by the President of the Commission's Finance and Treasury can be halved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u30	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, Mr Bauman, who disappeared just a few days ago, said that the biggest obstacle to finding answers is our slow search for them. It is undeniable that on this subject we have accumulated some slowness. Of course, the complexity and delicacy of the subject and its system, concerned by the establishment of a committee of inquiry proposed by as many as 13 draft laws presented by practically all the parliamentary groups, require us, once again, to deal with this issue with the urgency, caution and responsibility that this case, like others, deserves. We must remember, however, that the path that led us here this morning is repeated for the second time, after a few months ago I was asking, under the urgency procedure, to be able to assess whether the time had arrived and it was now ripe to allow Parliament to re-appropriate a role that is not that of investigations or to replace the power or function of others, but - in my opinion - that of being able to fully understand - here is the great difference - what happened to the European banking system and, in particular, to the Italian one and, above all, what were the political responsibilities of Italian and European vigilance and bureaucracy in dealing correctly with the problem that we see on the shoulders of savers today by virtue of a bail in, which this House voted with great lightness. While we consider, once again, the urgency of setting up a Commission of Inquiry into the overall credit system in Italy, we must address the painful issue of bail in and be ready, with a decree-law that this House will examine first, to set in motion the mechanism of bail out. I'll explain. We are in a very curious condition. Other countries and governments first addressed the issue of how to intervene on the overall preservation of savings and, afterward, triggered the bail in. On the other hand, we first clicked the bail in and only now we are concerned about how to intervene - inevitably we will have to do so - to safeguard the overall savings of Italians through the bail out that we will deal with in a decree-law that is to our attention. The decree-law has a challenging title, concerning the protection of savings, and this shows us a way also in addressing the issue of the Commission of Inquiry. In fact, the presentation (in some cases only a few months ago) of 13 draft laws by all the Groups and the incardination that took place yesterday in the Finance and Treasury Committee conclude and summarize a work fruit of the proposals and evaluations of many Groups and fellow Senators who only in November last ended to propose to the attention of the Assembly and the Finance and Treasury Commission their assessments on some banks. There is Monte dei Paschi, as Senator Marino mentioned earlier, but there are also other territories that today suffer from the failure of a role of credit that risks to upset the economic system, if not also the social estate of some territories. The object of the Commission of Inquiry is this, in addition to the transparency that is the first obligation we have towards the citizen, who is not always in a position to fully understand what he reads in the newspapers or the information he receives. After all, how could that citizen do so when in so many years of unique thought about engineered and degenerate finance they have read entire pages of absolute adherence to a financial model so different from ours that they have created dismay in the world and today in our country having deeply undermined the holding of that savings that is guaranteed by the Constitution? Moreover, we would do well to read in full Article 47 of the Constitution to understand what this Commission of Inquiry will have to deal with, the result of the analysis and work that has finally been accelerated in the Finance Committee and that must soon see the Senate Assembly address this sensitive issue; the Senate, in fact, has worked on this front for a long time, undertaking, through the cognitive investigation, a precise and deep work of gathering information that today is the best substrate to be able to assess in a Commission of Inquiry which are the boundaries of this investigation and what really interests us to emerge in it. I am interested in Parliament being fully aware of what has happened at the level of the credit proposal in our country, which is not only the result of a crisis started in 2008 through financial systems all inspired by a logic of rapid and immediate profit that have caused a financial shock and then the determination in the real economy of a credit gap that has brought the Italian economic system to its knees. That is why I thank all the Members of the Commission who have done, like me and much better than I have, a certain and precise job that is the best way to be quick today. In order to be quick and real, we must start from there, continue on that path and make this House as soon as possible a valuable work of knowledge and awareness of what is really at stake, which is the role of this Parliament and not the replacement of other powers and other responsibilities. Instead, our responsibility is to know, know and legislate on a subject that brings us back so many years, in order to be able to highlight how a great banking law after the crisis of 1929 had kept the economic system as a whole, especially the European and the Western one, in a great balance that was instead undermined by a deregulation that has led us today to this point and leads all governments to have to respond not only from the political point of view, but also from the economic and financial one of faults of others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u33	Bianconi (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, we would like to thank President Marino and the Committee on Finance for the work that has been done in it, because it has been preparatory to the subject that we are dealing with today and that we will soon be dealing with in the Commission of Inquiry, which will certainly have the very short time available to it. We are interested in total transparency on what has happened. We are interested in the precise knowledge of all the mechanisms and also the hypotheses of legislative changes, which can put our banking system in great strength. We are interested in this banking solidity, because we have a sense of great responsibility to our citizens and because we must protect our citizens who are certainly, at this time, absolutely disbanded, without any certainty about a situation that concerns not only the bank on which we are making a precise and punctual reasoning with a decree, but the whole national banking system. That is why we too, Mr President, want the Commission of Inquiry to analyse the thirteen draft laws deposited in the Commission, a clear sign that this Parliament and this Parliament have every interest in exploring one of our cornerstones at 360 degrees: the credit and solidity of our banks, certainly without conflicting with those who are already investigating this case today. We are Parliament and must be sound. We must know and ensure transparency. We must protect our citizens, but at the same time we must also be legislators. Therefore, a Commission of Inquiry will also help us to identify the corrections that can be put in place for greater protection of our system. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u36	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, we too must do! We can only support a joint discussion of this major problem concerning the national banking system, and not only that, since we have seen that unfortunately the involvement is much wider in nature. However, remaining to the national problem, we can only be satisfied with the one-year work carried out by the Finance Committee, of which I have also been a member. I therefore know very well how the hearings have been carried out and also this great work, which has led to the results that this House, certainly, will be able to use in the first place to give answers to the citizens on transparency and on what has unfortunately happened. How to do it!, however, we regret something. A year ago, in January 2016, we filed a motion. Well, what was mentioned at the beginning of this draft law, which calls for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, recalls precisely the points that we expressed in the motion, namely the request to verify the responsibility of the supervisory bodies, in particular the Bank of Italy. In a set of very precise and detailed points, which touched on the obvious problems of the banking system and the flaws of our banking system, we asked for this motion to be dealt with urgently, in order to verify causes that gave fundamental answers to citizens on transparency, but also on the responsibility, which is right and proper, of those who should protect the system and, probably, did not. If there is a regret, for us it is this: having been unable to attend, after a year, to the discussion of this motion. Despite this, we appreciate the overall reflection and the work carried out by the Finance Commission, which allows us to provide clear, precise answers and, therefore, to deal quickly and expeditiously with the issue. If, at the end of January, we succeed in framing this issue in the Commission, the next day we will be able to deal with this problem in this House and, thanks to the proposed work and on the basis of precise and effective data, to deal with everything concerning this system. Are we late? Probably, and we've seen it. This does not mean that, however, we can and must speed up, in the light of this new element that emerges, in a work that is unitary, that covers the whole problem and everything that has affected the banking system during this period so that citizens can realize the lost resources and the struggles endured. Therefore, a concrete, decisive, effective and fast response must be given. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u38	Senator Martelli, Senator Bottici has already spoken for her Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u39	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak briefly as the draftsman of the law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, the question lies in the following terms. This bill would need to go ahead alone, firstly because it was filed in April 2013 and, furthermore, because the more arguments we give to the same Commission of Inquiry and more, necessarily, the time to devote to each strand decreases. If your real interest is to obtain urgency on the thirteen other draft laws, we propose to vote first on the urgency of the draft law that I have tabled. I would really like to understand why you do not want to do this, because objectively there is no reason, unless there is some sort of personal contrast with the Movement. Separately, then, you might think of a unique text on the rest. It's a courtesy, the one I ask. [[Senator Zanda's comments.]] Senator Zanda, don't look at me like that. As you can see, the issue of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena alone is more important than all the other gatherings: for the volume of money involved, for the problems it has created and for the duration of the situation. The Mount of the Paschi is worth ten times all the problems of the other banks put together. It is therefore important that we now vote on the urgency of this bill. After that, there is no problem in declaring the urgency of all the other texts and bringing them to the Chamber, because surely the Movement has interest - as I hope everyone has - to clarify what happened, without waiting for the President of the ABI to come and kindly give us the list of people who received the most money, the biggest loans. We should not wait for the banking authority to say these things. The courtesy that I ask of you is therefore the following: we also declare urgent the draft law on the banking system, but we bring the issue of the Monte dei Paschi to the House separately and quickly, because this bill has been incardinated for a year and a half. Suddenly what could have happened? Nothing. We simply carry out that bill: this is the courtesy we ask of you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u40	We proceed to the vote, pursuant to Rule 92 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, of the proposal made by Senator Marino Mauro Maria, which essentially extends the statement of urgency to all the draft laws related to the bill n. 624, presented by Senator Martelli and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u43	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, can you please repeat what Rule of the Rules of Procedure we are referring to? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have just said this: it is Article 92 (3). SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Rule 92 (3) says: "Where the Senate is called upon by the President to decide on such appeals (...) But in this case we are talking about points of order. The Rule on which we should vote is Rule 77 on the statements of urgency, which has no connection with the Rule you are referring to.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u44	Senator Santangelo, we are voting on the proposal put forward by President Marino and on which I would like to point out that all the Groups have agreed, as well as Senator Bottici, who spoke earlier in the Chamber, under the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of her Group, as will be shown in the Report. We therefore put to the vote a proposal on which all the groups, including yours, have agreed. I repeat, Senator Bottici also intervened earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u45	Mr President, what you have said is not written in any Rules of Procedure other than yours. Senator Bottici has made another point, which concerns the vote that you announced, because they cannot be merged. If there is an urgent request for thirteen draft laws, Senator Zanda, as per the Rules of Procedure (Rule 77), makes a request at this sitting and will be able to vote on it at the next appropriate sitting. At this moment, the only request for urgency is that of Senator Martelli on the draft law that he has presented, and that is what must be put to the vote today. The request made by Senator Zanda cannot be combined at all, with respect to which the procedure provided for in Rule 77 must be followed by voting in the next useful sitting and not in this sitting. Otherwise, that would be a very serious precedent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u46	Senator Santangelo, you were able to explain your reasons. I confirm that the vote on Senator Zanda's proposal has been made in the light of the information that President Marino has provided to the Assembly on the work of the Commission. Therefore, the vote on the order of business is prior to any other vote. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal made by Senator Marino Mauro Maria. It's approved. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Why don't you let me talk? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, we have announced the outcome of the vote. What do you want to intervene on, Senator Falanga?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to say to you that you cannot govern this House in such a bullying manner. I asked to intervene after Senator Santangelo's intervention to argue that the thesis was correct and you didn't give me the floor. In fact, with a vulgar gesture, you, Mr President, did not allow me to speak. This is not appropriate for those who have the responsibility to govern this House. Do I make myself clear? You're rude, ma'am!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u48	I take note of that. The House has spoken and its Group has also spoken. We have applied Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure. All the groups have spoken and then we have voted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u51	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am always speaking under Rule 92 (2) of the Rules of Procedure: the vote you have previously called has no reason to exist. It is incredible, because Rule 92 absolutely does not read what you have said. I invite you to read it to the House, because it is impossible for the Senate to be guided in this way. This time Senator Zanda made a request, but Senator Zanda's request has reason to exist under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure: the request made by Senator Zanda cannot at all be combined with the request made earlier, Mr President, although the Offices say so. You tell me according to which article and paragraph this is right to be and we read them together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u52	I repeat that we take note of the vote of the Assembly which approved the extension of the statement of urgency to all draft laws related to draft law No 624. The Presidency therefore believes that the question of Rule 77 has been taken up by the previous vote, on which - I repeat - the Groups have had the opportunity to speak under the Rules of Procedure: its Group has also voted in favour. SANTANGELO (M5S). But it's not! Under what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have exhausted this item on the agenda. [[Senator Santangelo's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u53	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2224, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 1134 and 1648. I would remind you that Articles 6 and 7 were adopted at the sitting of 24 November and that there was no quorum on the vote on Amendment 8,200. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8,200. CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,200, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 8,201 to 8,203 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u56	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, Amendment 8,201 was withdrawn because we had signed the 8,206 tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. The speed with which the debate on this amendment began did not allow us to put ourselves in line immediately with the follow-up to the work and so many of us did not remember where we were at. It would therefore have been - and would have been - appropriate, perhaps, for the rapporteur to take the floor for a moment to resume the path from the point where we had left it, because many people remember that opinions on the amendments had been expressed, but no vote had been taken on the article. It is therefore difficult now to systematically reconnect with those who have withdrawn amendments and have signed others. Probably, as I suggested, it would have been useful to give the rapporteur the floor for a moment and resume the path from where we had interrupted him to give more order to our work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If the rapporteur wishes to speak, he can ask at any time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u59	WHITE, rapporteur. Mr President, thank you, I would like to speak very briefly. I would remind you that I have called on the extenders of Amendments 8,201 and 8,203 (amendment 8,202 had been withdrawn) to converge on amendment 8,206, which is similar in terms of content, form and substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.204, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u63	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I would ask that a correction be made to the vote I have just voted on, which was intended to be against and not in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u64	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8205. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8205, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8206, on which I ask the rapporteur if he confirms the favourable opinion already expressed. A check is appropriate, given the time interval after which we return to examine the measure. WHITE, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, I confirm that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u67	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in fact I can also understand the intention of the rapporteur, who gave a favourable opinion on Amendment 8.06. This proposal introduces the possibility of allowing the so-called media-conciliation procedure in the causes of responsibility of health workers. Article 8 provides precisely for the possibility of starting a mediation, that is, to make, before accessing the actual case, a preliminary technical assessment. In practice, an expert study is carried out which already determines the causes and responsibilities and is a very effective way to reach a conciliation or even an effective proposal for mediation and transaction on the procedure. Predicting conciliation means giving these mediation bodies a chance again, which have been born to avoid lawsuits in the courts and anything else. These media conciliation bodies, however, sometimes do nothing but create an increase in activities, because they are often practically useless. If the average conciliation is not done with an expert, practically the work done, which the citizen must pay, because the average conciliation must be paid, it is useless. Similarly, even if the assistance of a lawyer is not compulsory, it is obvious that if an attempt is made to reconcile with a hospital company and with doctors for cases of health responsibility, which are, among other things, very complex, it is impossible to do so alone, so you must still have a lawyer. So we must bear not only the cost of bringing proceedings before the media conciliation body, but also that of the lawyer. To remove this opportunity, in my opinion, would allow us to make the preliminary technical assessment and to carry out immediately an expertise that could be absolutely decisive. I therefore call on the rapporteur (and also the representative of the Government) to revise their opinion and consider the possibility of accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u68	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8206, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 8,207 and 8,208 are foreclosed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,209, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u69	A delegation of teachers and students from the classical and scientific Liceo Socrate in Rome who the Senate greets and thanks for the presence is attending our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u70	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.11 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 8.12 tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.13 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.14 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.15 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.16, which is identical to Amendments 8,217 and 8,218.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u73	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 8.16 because its principle and content have been absorbed by Amendment 8206, which has been adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u74	We note this and, since Senator Ranucci's amendment 8.217 has also been withdrawn, I would ask Senators Palma and Malan whether they intend to withdraw amendment 8.218 for a similar assessment. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, we will withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u75	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 8.19 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.20 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.21 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.222, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 8.23, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u76	Mr President, amendment 9.218 is very simple and makes it possible to specify the reference point for the quantification of the ceiling, as these rules, in the current wording, leave uncertainty as to the determination of the ceiling itself. Since some compensations concern a deferred time of even a few years compared to the event, this could also change the insurance aspects. It is therefore simply a specification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u77	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u78	I am against Amendments 9,200, 9.3, 9,201, 9,202, 9,203, 9,204, 9,205, 9.12, 9,206, 9,207, 9.208, 9.19, 9.209, 9.210, 9.211, 9.212, 9.213, 9.214, 9.215, 9.217, 9.218, 9.219, 9.220 and 9.221. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendments 9,216 and, of course, 9,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u79	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u80	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 9,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,200, tabled by Senators Scavone and Compagnone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.5 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,201 tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,202, tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.203, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,204 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,205, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.12, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9206, tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 9,207 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.208, tabled by Senator Simeoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.19, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9,209, tabled by Senator Simeoni, until the words 'public health worker'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.210 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.211, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 9.212, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 9.213 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.214, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9,215, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.16 tabled by Senator Padua and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9,217 to 9,219 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 9.20 and 9.21 are impervious. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 9 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u81	Mr President, first of all, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State in his new capacity as representative of the Ministry of Health. Colleagues and colleagues, the images of the hospital in Nola that we have seen these days and that have reflected a large number of statements, some really sudden and incredible in their content, help me and support me in motivating the presentation of amendment 10,201. The current insurance policies cover, as is well known, only the professional responsibility of the doctor or, more generally, of the health care professional for reasons of negligence, imprudence and imprudence. It is not expected that coverage will also be extended to cases where the damage is caused by the structural deficit caused by negligence by the administration. As in the case of the poor patient in the emergency room of the hospital in Nola who has asked to receive the professional benefits, the damage that the patient could possibly receive not being hospitalized in a bed but deposited - I dare say - on the ground cannot fall on the doctor or on the medical staff: obviously it must fall on a negligent administration that has not been able to realize the suitable structures. Since the damage is often caused also for reasons of structural and organizational deficits against which health professionals do not in fact have a level of co-responsibility, I have thought to propose, drawing on the common sense, this amendment that provides for the introduction of the forecast that the damage can be caused not only by the professional responsibility of the doctor and the health staff, but also by structural and organizational deficiencies of principals, caused by the shortage of staff, which are clearly attributable to the management of the institution. I believe that this is an amendment that can be accepted and, in this respect, I hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u82	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 10,206. I would ask you to pay particular attention to this simple proposal because in the legislation under our scrutiny, in the state of the art, it is said that all health professionals must be insured, and we are all in agreement with that. However, I would ask you to put yourself in the shoes of a health professional who alone has to choose which insurance to take and, therefore, must know in depth all the clauses of a policy. You understand that this is not part of the professional baggage of many health professionals because in life they have learned to do something else. With the amendment, I therefore ask, given that all health facilities have legal offices, that these should be the ones to choose and ask the insurance that ensures the structure to prepare policies for health professionals (which they themselves will pay). This ensures that the insurance they are going to subscribe to is fair and does not include certain particular clauses. I want to quote one: the withdrawal clause. Many know that many professional insurances have this clause that, when a professional is called into question, the insurance has the right to cancel the policy later. At this point, the professional would be found out and, according to paragraph 3 of this article, could not even practice his profession anymore. The amendment also addresses another very interesting aspect: if the insurance of the company is the same as the health care professional, even the speech of the revenge would be less because, in any case, it would be the same insurance to have to pay. So this would also be a further possibility to reduce litigation. I therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this amendment and I ask the rapporteur, since I imagine that an opinion will be given against it, to consider a change of this amendment to an agenda, to at least tell the companies to help their professionals by putting these policies on the plate. Otherwise it ends up that the professional, trying to save a few euros, then "falls" in an insurance that in the moment of need will not protect him. I therefore believe that this is an amendment of great common sense and a very practical spirit. I hope that, if it is not accepted as an amendment, it can at least be accepted as an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u83	Mr President, we too have proposed an amendment to Article 10, in order to highlight a very serious problem that lies around this bill and a little bit about all medical responsibility (I refer back to what Mr Gaetti has already said). The plant provided for in this new legislation expressly provides for direct action by the injured person against the doctor. The doctor must have the necessary insurance cover, in the event that it is agreed to compensation for the damage. You understand, gentlemen, that doctors who practice professions such as the gynecologist (in obstetrics) or the neurosurgeon have estimates for insurance policies that exceed 10,000 or 15,000 euros per year. We are talking about sums that are inaffrontable by doctors who are currently incardinated within hospital structures, who can boast of the salaries that certainly do not allow them to face these loads. We have raised this issue with regard to this bill. Our Amendment 10,207 provides for an intervention, which we can also adjust for what has been proposed in our proposal by hospital companies and ASLs. The individual facing the market world of insurance companies does not have the possibility and the ability (with all due respect, because everyone does his job) to choose which policy is most appropriate. The draft law provides for a form of monitoring of the basic conditions, but, gentlemen, we cannot expose doctors and waste their time, instead of devoting ourselves to their professional training and activity, to look for the insurance policy that allows them to have the lowest premium, because sometimes the low premium is associated with conditions that may not cover everything. Let me give you an example of what has been done by the Veneto Region. The Veneto Region has realized this difficulty and has intervened putting in place a sort of mediation (pass me the expression), of help and support of the doctors, in order to find on the market the best policies. That is not to say that ASLs make policies in favour of employees, as we have also proposed, because we understand what regulatory difficulties can be. But the Veneto Region at least took charge, taking advantage of its contractual power, of finding the most favorable policies, not to leave doctors at the mercy of a really very difficult world. So we, with this amendment, continue to insist on this issue. We welcome a restructuring, a review of the whole area of medical responsibility from a legal point of view, which is complex, but we must take the insurance side into account. You can't think of thinking about one without the other. That is why we are also willing to turn Amendment 10,207 into an agenda in order to make the Government involved in this issue and to be a diligent member of the insurance side, so that there are no discrasies throughout the system.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u84	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteur and the Government to the fact that the issue we are dealing with in relation to this Article 10 concerns the obligation of insurance. In Article 10, in fact, we say that public and private health and social-health facilities must be provided with insurance cover; therefore, there is a requirement for these structures to have insurance cover. The amendment that I tabled, on 10203, extends the obligation to contract insurance companies because if we foresee an obligation for public and private health structures to contract policies and do not foresee it for insurance companies we may find ourselves in the condition that insurances do not make policies for public and private health companies. If we speak in particular of public companies, in order to be able to contract a policy, a public company must make a procedure of public evidence: it cannot establish a private contract or multiple private negotiation with several insurance entities; it must call for a tender, which has its time and costs, and above all it must establish precise parameters in order to be able to prepare a tender specifications. If, for example, no one participates in this race because there is no obligation of any kind, how will a health care company ever acquire an insurance policy? This issue has already been discussed, Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, with the rapporteur and also with the Members of the competent Commission, and it is intended to refer the subject back to the debate we are going to have on the competition law, which will probably contain rules for insurance companies; instead, I would like (and I propose this to the rapporteur and the Government) for the House to address this issue in this measure, precisely because we are about to approve Article 10. Think for a moment of the images that are making the tour of Italy from the media point of view, that concern the hospital of Nola, story that is enriched every day with new ideas and new elements. Well, if we think about what happened in that hospital (where the responsibility of doctors emerges in the face of an alleged lack of information in relation to the local health company and therefore the general management), in this case, with an insurance policy for damages, if there was not a specific policy that would explain the cases and what risks are covered, how would we determine what compensations can be? That is why if there is no obligation to enter into contracts for insurance companies, we run the risk of leaving this point open, which is a qualification of the measure in our examination. I therefore call for a thorough reflection on this issue, because we would find ourselves in the condition that some health companies, both public and private, might not have the possibility to take out any policy, so this article would be frustrated and would remain unimplemented precisely because of the difficulty, or rather because of the unwillingness to oblige insurance companies, as is the case for car RCs. We oblige motorists to take out a policy, but we also basically oblige insurance companies to take out a policy with policyholders. If there is not this double obligation, I believe that we are also running the risk of finding out about this issue with the consequent unworkability of the provision under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u87	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, as we proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments, I and my colleagues in my Group intend to sign them with the agreement of the authors.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u88	Senator Falanga, you will inform us when we come to the vote on the amendments in question. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u89	Mr President, I am against Amendments 10,200 and 10.4. I also object to Amendment 10,201, not because the substance is not shared, but because - in the rapporteur's view - its content is already included in the text which the Commission has dismissed. I also object to Amendments 10,202 and 10,203 and, of course, I support Amendment 10,500. I also object to Amendment 10,204, which is identical to Amendment 10,205. The subject of insurance, which you know is extremely sensitive, has already been addressed in the rapporteur's reply. The subject of the RC auto policy has also been evaluated in Europe, being an obligation considered (at least this is the head of charge) contrary to the principles of free movement of services and competition. This is, therefore, a very sensitive problem which is not included in this measure because it concerns a more general principle that we will have to deal with. I naturally support Amendment 10.501. As for Amendment 10,206, which is identical to Amendment 10,207, I am against it. In this case too, I think it is reasonable to imagine the withdrawal of amendments and the presentation of an agenda that - I ask you to be careful - invites the Government to assess the ways in which the Regions (here we must agree, if the Regions or companies, which are two different things) can facilitate the conclusion of insurance contracts by professionals. What is being contested (not because we are against it, but because a negative decision has been taken on this issue, I believe, by the Court of Cassation) is that it is the companies that conclude them in favour of third parties. I therefore call on you to present an agenda that calls on the Government to assess how professionals can access policies that cover the revenge (we are in fact talking about revenge) by gross negligence or malice. I believe that the agenda can be accepted if it is formulated in these terms. The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 10.32 and 10.33 and in favour of Amendment 10.208. The opinion also opposed Amendments 10,209, 10,210, 10,211 and 10,212, identical to Amendment 10,213.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u90	I call on Senator Gaetti and Senator Stefani to comment on the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw Amendments 10,206 and 10,207 and to table an agenda. GAETTI (M5S). I welcome the rapporteur's invitation. STEFANI (LN-Aut). I also welcome the rapporteur's invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u91	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u92	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,200. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u95	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, thanking the rapporteur for his explanation, I withdraw Amendment 10,204.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u96	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,200, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.4 tabled by Senators Di Biagio and Aiello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,201, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u99	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I wanted to ask Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to be able to add our signature to Amendment 10,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u100	Amendment 10,201 was rejected, so it is a posthumous signature. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,202, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u103	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I have listened to the rapporteur's explanation and, despite the good intentions, I am not satisfied, so I am voting in favour of the amendment I have tabled, because I believe that under this condition we will create a clear violation of the law by health companies, which will not be able to contract any policy and, if they do not find an insurance company that will make the policy to them, they will counter an obligation of law laid down in Article 10 to our examination. Therefore, not addressing this issue this morning (and I probably do not know if we will be able to do so in other measures), we could create the conditions for the directors-general or even those responsible for doctors themselves, not having insurance policy, to be led to violate an article of law that we are approving this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u106	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, on this amendment with due respect and politeness, I say to the rapporteur that he probably has little knowledge of a contract. To say that already in the rule laid down by the Commission this possibility is entirely wrong, because when you take out an insurance policy and there is the obligation of such an insurance policy you must also indicate which risks it must cover. In fact, to comply with the simple imposition of the rule of entering into a policy without any specification of the type of liability which the policy covers seems to me to be a sort of blank rule that is of no use. However, we will not vote in favour of Senator Cuomo's amendment 10,203, because he fails to take into account that the contractual relationship is governed by negotiating autonomy: while we can require public structures to have an insurance policy, we cannot impose a particular contractual activity on a private person; that is the reason. As much as I appreciate the meaning and purpose of the amendment, there is this force that I do not think can be overcome as a technician. For this reason we will not vote for Senator Cuomo's amendment and for this reason I asked Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to put, even if in a posthumous way, our signature to his amendment 10,201, which was of common sense, reasonable and that in any case it was appropriate to be included in the norm precisely for the reasons I said. It does not make sense to provide for the conclusion and compulsory nature of a policy without content. I would also like to add to the rapporteur that, in addition, providing for no additional charges does not mean that those amounts will be deducted from various assistance costs for citizens. We don't supply syringes to hospitals, and with that money we require the institution to take out a worthless policy, which doesn't do anything, because you don't know what's going to cover. If this is a way of governing health care in our country, then I must disagree, as a citizen even before as a parliamentarians. It is not acceptable, however, that arrogance. Everyone's been talking about Nola. Well, I am also tired, because the statements and measures taken by the Governor of Campania, such as the suspension of the health director and other health care of that structure, do not deserve to be commented on, as an expression of arrogance, institutional distumity, incompetence, an inability and a fascist attitude, but not of those values brought by the friends of the then Italian Social Movement, but of those most bewildering values that history has severely criticized and condemned. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]] Today we still have some such expression among those who administer our structures and our bodies. And alas, I say this as a poor Campanian citizen, my own region is governed in this way. [[Applause from the Baran senators and Palma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u109	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, the debate on this amendment has the value and the advantage of pointing out an increasingly important problem and that we cannot simply put it in the context of a bill of this importance. The problem that arises is that we are going more and more, almost following in the footsteps of the American health market, towards an objective responsibility from a health point of view. We are getting closer and closer to the possibility that, if there is a relevant fact such as permanent disability or fatal harm, we are faced with an accusation against the medical and health system, sometimes even in search of compensation for the damage suffered by a joint. This fact leaves the health category quite undiscovered at this time, in addition to the presence of an insurance system, the Italian one, partially inadequate (well Mr Cuomo did to highlight it with his amendment) to provide guarantees from an economic point of view. It is clear to everyone that this amendment has a very large limit. It is clear that I can also, theoretically, impose from the public point of view that the Italian insurance companies must go to offer a guarantee of civil and professional responsibility to the client and the applicant; obviously, however, each company that does not intend to assume that risk has a margin of operational possibility in not offering an appropriate tariff to the economic conditions of the applicant, thus placing itself outside of its availability. So offering an insurance cover opportunity doesn't automatically mean that I can take it, because if I ask for a hundred when I receive an insurance cover, it's obviously completely inappropriate and I find myself unable to get a real cover. The problem remains. We are in that middle ground where there are not yet very specialized companies in the field of professional civil liability adequate to offer market rates but, at the same time, to have that ability of analysis, also financial and economic, that allows them to offer a coverage in exchange for a premium, or an appropriate tariff. The problem posed by Mr Cuomo is far from irrelevant and I do not see it completely solved by the current bill. I will therefore abstain, because it is clear that this amendment has a provocative value, but it has a great significance. I would therefore like this amendment to be rejected without first realizing that we cannot write a rule without ensuring that those who are obliged to observe it can actually find both on the insurance market and from the point of view of premium, therefore of the cost of insurance, an adequate response in the Italian market.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u112	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 10,203 has a different purpose than the flag one, as Senator Puppato said earlier, because it has an obligation to contract. In practice, this is a rule very much fought by insurance companies, which was introduced into the Italian law within the single text on private insurance and which was attacked precisely by insurance companies. What do we want to do? Do we want to give insurance companies a present once again by not including the obligation to take out health insurance for these cases as well? In a sense, if we do not include the obligation to contract, we once again give the knife to insurance companies on the side of the handle. The introduction of the obligation to contract within the car RC sector did not happen immediately in our order, but we can say that it has happened in recent years. When it was introduced, Parliament spoke in a very favourable way of saying that it was a rule in favour of citizens, i.e. in favour of the other party in the insurance contract. In this case the counterpart to the insurance companies are the public health institutions. So what do we want to do? Haven't we had any experience yet? Mr President, if Mr Cuomo will allow me, I would ask you to add my signature to Amendment 10,203 and I would ask colleagues to reason. We cannot wait for the draft competition law, because we know very well that when you do not want to do something, you refer it to some other future measure, which is not done. Since this is now being discussed, let us introduce this rule now, giving a clear message to the citizens and our public health institutions and giving this possibility - as we then gave it to the citizens, counterparts of insurance companies - to our public bodies, which will become a counterpart to insurance companies. My vote on this amendment will therefore be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u115	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would ask Senator Cuomo to be able to accept Amendment 10,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u118	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, we have listened to the detailed and comprehensive assessment and illustration that Mr Cuomo has made of his amendment, as well as the assessments and illustrations that previous speakers have made to better understand the critical point that is being addressed. In the meantime, I ask Mr Cuomo to be able to sign his amendment, but I also ask that I be able to sign the possible transformation of Amendment 10,203 into an agenda, if Mr Cuomo ever obtains - and I would suggest this to him - an opinion from the rapporteur and the Government in favour of his acceptance, so that he can remain a trace of a commitment to the Government to address what can be a critical point. We must absolutely avoid the risk that the failure to adopt this amendment could lead to a vulnus in the context of the adoption of the bill when we examine it. I therefore ask that the rapporteur and the Government reconsider their negative assessment of the amendment and, alternatively, ask Mr Cuomo to make a request to the Government and the rapporteur to accept a possible agenda in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u121	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to point out that this measure has been examined, for more than a year now, by the Health Commission and has been examined at first reading by the House of Deputies. The point in question comes from a concrete experience. We need to know that in the past years insurance companies no longer had any intention of ensuring and therefore the delicate point on which we have tried to work is to meet the needs of the health world with the impossibility, because it would be pathetic, to lead and direct a market, such as the insurance one, through a health measure. It is clear that the argument will be completed with the Competition Act, which is the proper place to discuss this topic, and not by including a part that would be sincerely poorly worked into the bill in our examination. Therefore, I believe that this issue exists and certainly needs to be addressed, as we have said several times, as the rapporteur has said in his report and the debate that has taken place outside of here has pointed out several times. However, this issue must be included in the correct area of competition, partly because there are technical elements that can only be defined by a law of that nature. I therefore believe that the presentation of an agenda can satisfy the needs that have been raised by several Members, but that it is necessary to maintain a text which is already very complicated and detailed in the terms that the matter requires.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u123	You've already spoken, Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u124	PUGLIA (M5S). I would like to speak in the light of the statements made by President De Biasi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The question has been addressed if anything to the presenter of the amendment which could consider whether to turn it into an agenda. I'll give you the word, but be very tight, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). I'm gonna be so tight, ma'am. At this point, in the light of what has been said, it would be appropriate for the Presidency to reopen the deadlines for amending the draft competition law, whose terms are closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u125	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,203, tabled by Senator Cuomo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 10,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 10,204 and 10,205 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 10.501, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 10,206 and 10,207 have been changed to agenda G10.206 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.32 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,33 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,208, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.209, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,210, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 10,211 is impervious. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,212, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 10,213, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 10 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u126	Mr President, I would like to ask for Article 11 to be replaced by Amendment 11,200, which I consider to be the most guarantee not only for health professionals, but also and above all for healthcare companies and patients, who would be more sure that they would obtain the sums granted to the former in return and to the latter in compensation for the damage. It should also be noted that this rule, as formulated, is in conformity with the provisions relating to the insurance cover of other professions, such as the decree of the Ministry of Justice of 22 September 2016, which regulates the essential conditions and the minimum ceilings of insurance policies for lawyers. It seems to me that translating the same rules to the whole professional world would be an act of common sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u127	Mr President, I agree with what Senator Gaetti has already said, given that the amendment tabled by our Group has the same reasons and the same wording as that which he has presented, in order to underline a difficulty that unfortunately is being achieved in practice. When a claim is made, considering that in cases of medical responsibility there may be a large amount of compensation for the damage, the insurance often has a cancellation under the contract. Of course, this creates problems quite a bit. For this reason, we have decided to include the provision that in the policy conditions the prohibition of withdrawal by the insurer in the case of an accident report must be compulsory.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u128	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u129	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u130	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u131	We move on to amendment 11,200, identical to amendment 11,201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. STEFANI (LN-Aut). I insist on the vote on Amendment 11,201. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u134	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I am not going to vote on the amendments under consideration or on the Article either, because if you listen to the statements made by my fellow Members in the debate on Article 10, in which it was stated that there could be no obligation on insurance to contract policies, I do not understand why we can instead provide for an obligation on insurance to extend the insurance guarantee. If we cannot foresee an obligation in one way, I do not see why we could expect another. To move the legal references that commit us to this bill to a subsequent measure are quite unusual for a Parliamentary Assembly and for this reason, in order to avoid further disagreements and divergences with a measure that on some parts does not see me at all agree, I will not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u135	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11,201, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u136	Mr President, just read the short paragraph 3 of Article 12, which provides that the insurance undertaking has the right to recover from the insured person to the extent that it would have the contractual right to refuse or reduce its benefit. This is a paragraph of which I call for the abolition, because it pushes healthcare professionals to an abstentionist type of medicine, because, in the face of a particularly complex case or that could have a not too happy outcome, precisely because of the complexity of the picture, they should abstain. This is a rule in favour not so much of the professional, but of the right to the health of the patient: I think it is appropriate to delete paragraph 3, so that from the defensive medicine you do not switch to a medicine of type abstention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u137	Mr President, as a North-League Group, we have tabled amendments to delete paragraph 3 and possibly to formulate it in a different way in order to avoid precisely what was anticipated. What we would absolutely like to avoid is that the doctor finds himself in the difficulty of fearing the action of revenge and in this sense conditions his own action in order to avoid suffering a future cause. That is why we are talking about abstensistic or even defensive medicine: when the doctor is faced with a particular case, he will obviously prescribe an extra examination, maybe he will carry out an extra TAC or he will find the opportunity to avoid dealing with that problem, passing it to a colleague or another situation, just to avoid exposing himself. For this reason, we believe that paragraph 3 should be reworded if not deleted. Of course, by eliminating it, the general rules will apply, so we have also asked for a different wording in order to say "no" to the fact that the right of reval takes place to the same extent that the same insured person would have the right to refuse or to reduce his/her performance. Let us, at least, apply the rules resulting from the civil code. That is why we hope that there will be a favourable opinion from the rapporteur and the Government, at least on the wording of amendment 12,203 (Text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u138	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u139	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 12,200, 12,201, 12,202, 12,204, 12,205 and 12,206. I am in favour of amendment 12,203 (text 2) and the G12,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u140	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u141	I put to the vote Amendment 12,200, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12,201, which is identical to Amendment No 12.202. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,201, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 12,202, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,203 (text 2), tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u142	We greet the students and teachers of the Higher Institute "Giordano Bruno" in Perugia, who are following our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u143	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,204, tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 12.205, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,206, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G12.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 12 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain. GAETTI (M5S). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that, Senator Gaetti. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u144	Mr President, Article 14 offers an opportunity which we believe should be further supplemented by a guarantee fund. We believe that the possibility should be included in the norm that such fund also intervenes in the case where there is no insurance cover, in case the insurance has formulated a withdrawal or due to difficulties inherent in the company itself. The problem that we have raised with Amendment 14.201 is that unfortunately in the insurance policy market, especially when looking for a policy with a lower price, there can be companies coming from foreign countries, which may not have a particular seriousness or do not have a solid structure or structure. Therefore, in order to avoid compensation because the company is non-existent, has failed or is in disastrous condition, this wording allows the possibility for the guarantee fund to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u145	The remaining amendment and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u146	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 14,200 (text 2) and 14,201 (text 2). As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G14,200, I am in favour if the authors agree to turn the commitment into a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u147	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, do you accept the proposal of transformation put forward by the rapporteur? D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u148	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's and I accept the G14.100 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u149	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14,200 (text 2), identical to Amendment 14,201 (text 2). BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,200 (text 2), tabled by Senators Gaetti and Taverna, identical to amendment 14,201 (text 2), tabled by Senators Stefani and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I was unable to vote, which would have been in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We take note of that, Senator Caliendo. The Government therefore accepts the G14.100 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u152	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I insist on voting on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If you insist on the vote, the text contained in the documents must be put to the vote. I would therefore ask the rapporteur if he confirms the favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u153	Of course, Mr President, I do not know whether it is appropriate to put a recommendation to the vote, but we can also put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u154	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, if the agenda is put to the vote, we vote on the text that commits the Government. Accepting as a recommendation does not involve voting, as it is an indication of another content. If you, as you are entitled to, insist on the vote, we shall vote on the text as it is written and I do not know whether the rapporteur will then give a favourable opinion. White Senator, say you. , rapporteur. Mr President, I believe that the recommendation is very useful, where Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri rightly stresses the opportunity to identify a so-called therapeutic area fund. The problem on the agenda is that, technically, the resources with which this Fund is financed, which come from the Guarantee Fund, are absolutely derisory. The merit is correct, but the technical forecast of the agenda may well frustrate it, because the resources are really derisory.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u155	She insists that Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri accept his invitation to turn it into a recommendation. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri can decide whether to accept the invitation or to insist, as I thought, on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u158	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). President, I insist on the vote because the commitment is aimed at the evaluation by the Government of the opportunity to allocate some of the resources to the damage resulting from therapeutic therapy. The agenda cannot be more homeopathic than that. I would kindly ask that, in line with what has been agreed, there be a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri points out that the agenda commits the Government to assess the opportunity, so the formula is very elastic.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u161	DE BIASI (PD). In fact, Mr President, I think there is no problem in voting on the agenda, even though I am obliged to say that we agreed together that it would be a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u162	The rapporteur and the representative of the Government must formally tell us whether the opinion becomes favourable. I therefore invite them to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u163	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u164	Mr President, the Government's opinion is also favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u165	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G14.100, presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 14 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u166	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled to Rule 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u167	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u170	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 15,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u171	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15,201. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15,201, tabled by Senators Palma and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.8, tabled by Senators Di Biagio and Aiello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.202, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators, identical to amendment 15.203, tabled by Senators Compagnone and Scavone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.204, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.205, tabled by Senators Compagnone and Scavone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.206, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u172	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u173	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u174	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senators Di Biagio and Aiello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,200, tabled by Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 18. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment No 200 would be precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u177	WHITE, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to suggest to Senator Romani a rewording of Amendment No 200, which would give the following title to the measure: Provisions on the safety of care and the cared person, as well as on the professional responsibility of practitioners in the health professions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u178	Senator Romani, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur? ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 200 (text 2). BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment Tit.200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 4, which was previously set aside, and of the amendments and agenda submitted to it. Having been set aside in December, I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to remind the Assembly of the opinion expressed at the time on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u179	Mr President, I am against Amendment 4,207 and in favour of 4.208, if it is reworded by replacing the words: The following members of the family (or members of the family) are entitled: The members of the family or other members of the family who are entitled to benefits.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u180	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u181	The reference to the rewording proposed by the rapporteur of amendment 4.208 to innovative legislation that has just entered into force is clear. Senator Gaetti, do you accept this proposal, which in some way is a due act? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I withdraw Amendment 4,207.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u184	WHITE, rapporteur. Mr President, I believe that the G4100 agenda, which deals with the same subject, must also be withdrawn at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u185	Senator Gaetti, will you pick it up? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.208 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u188	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to accept Amendment 4.208 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u191	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Lega Nord Group also calls for the signing of amendment 4.208 (text 2) and I take the opportunity to confirm that the whole Group voted in favour of amendment 10.213. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u194	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to be able to endorse Amendment 4,208 (text 2) and to vote simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u195	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.208 (text 2), tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u198	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, my explanation of vote is very simple and starts with the method used. I believe that once again the Health Commission has demonstrated a policy of dialogue that, while maintaining the positions found by the various political sensibilities, manages to find points of balance that go in the direction of intercepting the needs of the country, the needs of the community, and give the country a legislative production that fills the vulnus. 11:59 a.m. (Followed by ambersio lettieri). Yes, vulnus, because we must talk about this when we refer to the complex and delicate topic of professional responsibility in the health sector, because the implications relating to the topic are not only the most perceived, visible, known and emerging ones that concern the protection of health, but are also of an economic, ethical, cultural and even anthropological nature. The theme is not new, it is very ancient. Hippocrates wrote it, saying: "That there are among the sick treated by doctors, some who heal perfectly is a fact that everyone recognizes; but since not everyone heals, for this reason Art is now blamed, and those who say badly, taking the pretext of the sick who succumb to diseases, they argue that those who escape owe it to chance and not to Art." With their profound cultural value, the considerations that Hippocrates makes in his well-known treaty, updated in our times, tell us of how and how the imbalance that existed until yesterday - I would say today basically healed with the measure under consideration - between the professional act provided by the health worker and the patient that of that performance is beneficial has long been compromised by a series of contingencys. I am referring to contingencys that have caused a vulnus in the relationship between patient and doctor (I speak in particular of the doctor referring to the case study that sees him as the main protagonist on the scene of the provision of health services, without of course excluding the other professionals) vulnus that has been subject also and not rarely of speculative attitudes. Then there was another aspect, which was the risk that the patient would remain without a response inherent in the quality of the services received and the assurance that they were consistent with scientific acquisitions. Well, the long-awaited period of many years (not only of the scientific community, but more generally of the community) today finds adequate response and response. It should be remembered that this draft law is a parliamentary initiative: my colleague, Mr Fucci, a member of the House of Deputies, was the first signatory to a draft law dealing with this matter. The measure fills a vulnus and solves an imbalance in the relationship between healthcare professional and patient: it re-evaluates and peacefully this relationship through the return of the medical act to a dimension of transparency and possibility of access to all the implications that, around it, are determined, giving back to the citizen rights that until now were denied. Through this measure we are able to give greater safety to the treatments and the principles that revolve around the management of clinical risk and prevention have a priority response and represent the polar star of the measure. I also recall the objective of a virtuous circulation of information between the various institutional levels, from the central and ministerial levels, to the involvement of Agenas, to the territorial health structure. I am thinking of the guidelines, which represent basically the good clinical-assistant practices to which we must adapt and to which we must show that we have adapted to the review of the level of criminal liability, which had reached a level of unjustified affliction, as unjustified was the foreclosure of the citizen to access the information concerning the benefits he had obtained. Another important aspect is that defensive medicine reduces its level of virulence - I dare say - due to the fact that, identified rules that rebalance the system, there will undoubtedly no longer be the use of those attitudes which, as a whole, have led to the definition of defensive medicine the protection system that had been determined for the protection of the health worker's position. Then there is the deflagrant effect of the dispute: in this sense I am particularly pleased that an amendment of mine relating to the possibility of medium-conciliation has been accepted. It is also worth considering the effects on the costs of insurance policies, the recovery of vitality - not marginal - for specialization schools that had even known the risk of dying out: I am referring above all to gynecology, orthopedics and surgery, given the by now absolute unwillingness of doctors to follow those specialist paths that were and are among the highest in terms of conflict between doctor and patient. It is therefore a fundamental aspect that concerns health protection profiles, which gives our health care a certainly higher level of quality, but which also leads to considerable savings, if it is true (as it is true) that the costs of defensive medicine are estimated (this tells us the ministerial sources) in about 10 billion, without considering the costs of the medical-legal litigation, which every year records 30,000 claims for damages for alleged malpractice. I believe that today we are about to adopt an absolutely positive law. We do this by showing that politics can deliver important measures to the country and for this I would like to thank the whole House, all the Members of the Commission, the rapporteur and colleagues who, with a spirit of maturity and with a great sense of responsibility, have helped to animate a qualitatively high debate, the result of which is written in the good pages of the measure that we will go to approve and that we Conservatives and Reformists will approve with satisfaction. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u201	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we immediately anticipate the vote of abstention by the entire Group of the North Legacy on the measure under discussion because we believe that, although it introduces serious legislation in a very complex area, it ultimately does not achieve its objectives. We are referring to a subject which certainly presents difficulties. However, we cannot fail to raise great doubts about the procedure we have chosen. This measure has been entrusted to the Health Commission. Without detracting from the competence and value of the Commissioners of the 12th The Standing Committee cannot fail to note that the measure speaks exclusively in strictly legal terms. It even changes the facility that for years, in doctrine and law, has been consolidated on the title under which the hospital company responds. We have been talking about the social contract for years, we have been talking about contractual liability for years, with a set of requirements and prerequisites for action. Now, for the part concerning even the action of responsibility towards doctors, an article of non-contractual liability has been modified, thus receiving part of different opinions. This matter was to be dealt with together with the Justice Commission. This is not to say that when a matter is dealt with the Commission justice everything is perfect, but that the Commission justice had to intervene. As the Commission, we only spoke with an opinion which was partly, among other things, also transposed, but the matter had to be dealt with together. But let's move on to the content of the bill. It is believed that, beyond the individual regulations, the application of this article, of that paragraph, of the Balduzzi law and of paragraph 3, the relationship between doctor and patient is necessarily informed about a relationship of trust, and it is in that relationship of trust that stands out the nobility of the activity of the doctor. It is not true that the patient who can report to a greater extent the doctor will be a more protected patient. The doctor's approach in this way could be influenced and there may be areas of gray in which the doctor might even choose to do or not to do. In order to create a system within which the action of the doctor must be considered mandatory (because it is a right, not of the doctor but of the patient, that to be cured), the regulatory system simply had to provide for health paths, perhaps with more streamlined procedures, with a view to total collaboration and overturning that idea for which compensation and compensation are synonymous with failure or unforgivable medical error. Gentlemen, medicine is not really a science, but an art. And the doctor is not like the craftsman who creates the object. We know very well that this is not a performance result. Your doctor should do as much as possible. In order to help me in this explanation of vote, forgive me if I say now that I am certainly not a lawyer or a Member of Parliament, but a doctor. And here I want to repeat them, because they are part of the reasons why we consider it appropriate to abstain. There are ideas that, since they are now widespread, although commonly rejected, can be right or, at least, may seem true. For years they have been telling that doctors and patients have become counterparts; that the patient, in order to be protected, must be able to report the doctor; and that the doctor, in order to treat well, must have the breath of lawyers, insurers and judges on his neck. And so the doctor, to protect himself, it is good that he always writes everything, even the most trivial and useless things. The more you write, the more you write, the more you Self-guard them. Clinical records now become encyclopedic tomas, informed consents now superimposed on purchase contracts; descriptions of operating acts similar to summaries of anatomy, physiology and surgical technique, intermezzared by comments such as "not being possible," "having regard to the situation" and "having regard to the picture" in the light of the intraoperative report." Almost everything was already ready and destined for a procedural debate. Behind all this, which is not comical given the dramatic nature of the area in which it happens, there is only one thing: fear. On the one hand, the fear of dying or not being cured and, on the other hand, the fear of not being able to cure as we would like and could be as doctors. Do you know what the truth is? That fear is not conquered, nor is it erased by a greater fear. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Centinaire.]] In fact, fears feed and grow exponentially, as they spread from one person to another. And fear stops: it blocks the mind, the heart and makes your hands shake, those hands that make you a good doctor. These are the words that come from some health care workers by commenting on this bill. That is why we will certainly have legislation shortly, but we cannot forget that we must retain the image for which patient and doctor are on the same side. In fact, at a time when the doctor is facing a patient who sees as his potential counterpart, a potential actor in a civil procedure that claims damages and who denounces before the prosecutor, will not have a relationship of closeness and collaboration with that patient, but will see him as an opponent. This must not be: it must not happen that the patient, when he enters a facility and puts himself in the hands of a doctor, first goes to the lawyer to see how to find solutions for a tomorrow. We must not act to prevent a possible cause; we must try to build as much as possible an atmosphere of absolute cooperation. Let's repeat, doctor and patient are on the same side. This is all about the policy issue, because if you have a responsibility, you have to have a policy. As we mentioned earlier in the explanation of vote for individual amendments, the gynecologists are the doctors with the highest sinisterness, but not because they are incompetent or imperishable, but because they carry out many activities. Whenever a child is born, one is faced with one of the greatest responsibilities. A neurosurgeon who intervenes inside the skull and operates on minimal surfaces, finds himself having proposals for policies for very high responsibilities. But we are not in those foreign countries where doctors earn 150,000 euros a year. We are talking about doctors, who operate in our facilities taking huge responsibilities, who do not reach 2,000 euros. That's the thing that doesn't make sense. Therefore, we hope that this measure will see us united, just as we have been in welcoming the agendas, including one signed by me and Senator Gaetti, aimed at verifying what is happening in the insurance world. We will vote in favour of abstaining, but we hope that the problem will never be overlooked and that we will always continue to work in the sense that we do not create new weapons of battles constantly seeking the scapegoat, but to establish a real collaboration, considering that health and health are based precisely on a particular, difficult and complex world in which everyone must feel that they are members of a team. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u204	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, hearing and reading about the safety of care and the right to health, in the light of the situation in the Italian public health system, really makes me shudder. We have seen how public health funding and expenditure have fallen in recent years. A health care, ours, which counts impossible waiting lists for a diagnostic examination, delays that feed corruption and create a double binary of patients: those who have to wait at the expense of their health and those who have a preferential lane, because paying they manage to compensate for the lack. Over 200 diagnostic procedures made for payment, increased tickets and more and more people who give up the prevention factor due to the high costs and the above expectations: thirteen months for an MRI; one year for a mammogram or a CT scan. You will understand well that it comes to get lost, that is to completely upset the term of preventive diagnosis. Only those who, for a fee and privately, can skip the line can actually be cautious. Do you realize that between delays and disorganization due to lack of resources and funding, often reckless management by hospital managers, people are forced to give up their care? Is this the right to health enshrined in our Constitution? This is demonstrated by the data, because the annual health expenditure incurred by patients with their own pockets is constantly increasing. So the more money you have, the sooner the better you look after yourself. After what does it matter to the vast majority of the population who can barely reach the end of the month? Nice equality, ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me that with this bill we try to get our hands on it, if we also consider the situation in which health workers are exposed. In fact, in the vast majority of our hospitals there is a serious shortage of staff and the average age of workers is increasing due to the lack of turnover. All the missing hours are never covered, except at the expense of the staff who remain in service with massacred shifts, then underpaid compared to other European colleagues. They are on the increase, among other things, due to suffering situations, the cases of burnout syndrome. All this while more and more young nurses and midwives are forced to take refuge in other European states to see themselves guaranteed a standard of living worthy of this name. Despite this marasm, which results in a lack of rights under which our Constitution is broken, what is done? Instead of healing the current critical situation, the patient's position is even more affected. While up to now it was the doctor who had to prove that the damage caused to his patient was not the consequence of his manslaughter, today it is the patient himself who has to prove the existence of the case of malasanity at his expense, a patient who we remember to be the weak part in this relationship, one who could never have the technical-scientific tools and the adequate knowledge to understand the extent of the error or negligence of a doctor; the same one who should obtain information from those same structures involved that naturally would have no interest in actually collaborating and that you know could always pull out vague and inaccurate records. So, dear patient, you will have very long waiting lists, very often you will have to pay out of your pocket, but if and when you can cure yourself and there will be damage to your own detriment you, victim, will have to prove the negligence and unpreparedness of the doctor. Not to mention that we are talking about a fantastic fund without having any other certainty about it. The criminal responsibility of the doctor will be excluded, even for serious fault, if it respects the good practices and guidelines provided, as if to say that we can trench safely behind a text, avoiding the adoption of the most appropriate therapeutic choices and leading to standardization at the expense of the doctor-patient relationship, for compensation that already late to arrive and ensuring that those who have been guilty by their work, but saved from the guidelines, will continue to operate in the same structures endangering other patients. I also have great doubts about the actual role of scientific societies as the only legitimate actors to produce the guidelines, considering, above all, that there is not yet a rule that identifies the requirements for responsibility and quality of the same societies. I have the doubt that guidelines should be drawn up, more than anything else, on how public health and hospitals are managed in order to really favour patients, to ensure effective equality and not always and only to intercede in favour of the powerful lobby, promising funding and jobs only for propaganda purposes. Therefore, in accordance with the different sensibilities within the Group of Great Autonomouss and Freedoms, I am voting against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u207	COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now there has been a feeling of distrust of health professionals in the public, in the erroneous conviction - as some other colleagues have said - that medicine is omnipotent, an exact science, which is not: as has been said, medicine is an art practiced by men against other men. A possible adverse result has therefore always been read by the patient as attributable to their inappropriate behaviour or an inadequacy of the functioning of the care structures. The data at our disposal tell us that from 1994 to 2015 the number of medically responsible claims reported tripled, reaching up to 34,000 cases. There has therefore been an increase in complaints both to individual doctors and to health facilities (about 20,000) with an increase of 255 percent compared to 1994. I believe that all this is also linked to bad information from the press, which often prefer to make sensationalism, because it makes much more audience give the news of a case of malasanity. Every news is then overturned and repeated dozens of times a day for several days, making the individual case appear as a rule, when, on the other hand, thousands of people are saved daily, and there are cases of great dedication of doctors to patients. All this, however, is not news, as they prefer scoop and sensationalism. All this generates the fear and mistrust of citizens towards Italian health care, which is among the best in the world, and Italian doctors, who are also among the best in the world. The consequence of all this, as has already been said, is defensive medicine, the caution on the part of doctors, which results in two absolutely negative effects: on the one hand the increase in costs, huge, paid by health facilities, because then there are a series of examinations, unnecessary diagnostic and therapeutic activities are being carried out and - even more paradoxical - the patient is not protected, but on the other hand a poor health is done. In this way, in fact, the fundamental premise of good health, i.e. the trust between the doctor and the patient, is lacking. The patient must feel protected by his doctor and the doctor invested in this trust so he will do everything to help the patient. When this relationship fails, affected by this bad information and attitudes, it determines on the one hand the defensive attitude on the part of the doctor with relative increase of the costs, and on the other, often, a bad therapeutic activity towards the patient. In fact, as my colleague Stefani has said well, regarding what many doctors report - and as I have seen, having thirty years of hospital activity behind - there is nothing worse than to imagine doing surgery thinking that that patient tomorrow will be your enemy, that you will have to account for every little thing and that, even with all your good will, you will have to defend yourself from him, that for you he must be a friend and instead he can become an enemy. This is a very serious matter, of which - and I would like to denounce it firmly - the information systems have a great responsibility, which must take care of them and stop spreading this kind of culture. Instead, they should do correct information, explaining that medicine is not an exact science, but an art. It was therefore necessary for Parliament to deal with this specific problem and to deal with it. This has been the case for almost a year, since 28 January, when the House dismissed the text which then arrived at the Health Commission. So there was a long iter, with the effort to put together many different texts, one of which I had written, with my fellow senators Lucio Romano and Scavone. A whole series of arguments were then made on the amendments aimed at improving the text itself. Our Group has also presented a number of them, one of which concerns the criminal liability of the doctor, who has found some satisfaction in the rewording of Article 6 by the rapporteur. This article, which is central to the installation of the measure, has been completely replaced following the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment 6,100. We can therefore say that a good job has been done overall. In addition to the rewording of Article 6, I would like to mention briefly the most interesting content of this measure. Article 2 provides, for example, that the Regions may entrust the office of the Ombudsman with the function of guarantor of the right to health. In each region is established the Center for the management of health risk and patient safety, with the function of collecting data on the risks and events averse to the generated litigation and to transmit them to the National Observatory for Good Practices on health safety, which will then identify the appropriate measures for the prevention and management of health risk. This is very important: it is a sort of risk prevention, because by collecting all the case studies you can see where there are gaps and where you are wrong, so you can correct it. This is an absolutely positive fact, because in the long term it will lead to a reduction in litigation. On the transparency of the data it is provided that the health management of the health structure, within seven days of the submission of the request by the persons entitled, provides the documentation. This is certainly aimed at protecting and increasing transparency towards the patient. Article 8 includes the mandatory attempt to reconcile with the mandatory participation not only of all parties, but also of insurance companies, which are an important subject, as has been pointed out in the debate in this House on this issue, which will need to be further monitored and on which attention will have to be paid. We believe that this can be an effective tool to prevent the proliferation of litigation, which, as usual, also inflate judicial classrooms. It is not useless to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that 95% of the criminal proceedings for personal injury involving health professionals end with a dismissal while, as far as the civil seat is concerned, claims for compensation are only accepted in 34% of cases. This says a lot about the correctness of the procedures and procedures that are being implemented. It should also be ensured that the judiciary was more cautious in opening judicial proceedings in this respect. It is important, for example, to include in Article 11 the extension of insurance cover to the events which occurred in the ten years preceding the conclusion of the insurance contract, even if it could have been better specified in terms of the contents of the insurance policy and the temporal operability of the insurance policy. Finally, it is true that on Article 9, which provides for a return to the profession of health worker, it would have been possible to do better; the amendment tabled by me and Mr Scavone aimed at this, but unfortunately it was not accepted by the House. It certainly could be done better. Similarly, an additional effort could be made to formulate Article 15 concerning the appointment of technical consultants and experts in health responsibility judgments. Indeed, the need remains that in this kind of judgment, precisely because of its delicacy, it is necessary for the consultants and experts appointed to know the cause of the matter. That is why we felt that the identification and involvement, for example, of the scientific societies that drew up the guidelines would be absolutely positive. We are told that this text certainly aims to build a fairer balance between doctors, in the protection of their profession, which they are called to carry out with serenity, and the right of citizens to feel protected. Some have hailed this measure as a historic achievement. We, much more prudently, think it will be a good law, a good start that then, like all laws made by men, will be monitored and tested. We'll see. Let's hope so. However, this is certainly a step forward. That is why I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u208	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u210	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, in anticipating the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies - PSI-MAIE, I would like to put to your attention an argument that can be included in two areas: an exquisitely bioethic and an exquisitely biopolitical one. In the field of bioethics we know that this argument examined in the light of principles and moral values is also a regulatory study regarding human behavior in science, life and health. On the other hand, the biopolitical theme is much debated already by its initial definition of Michel Foucault who defines it as a sort of dominion of life, declined through a domination of politics over life and life itself. Someone might ask me why this type of argument; we cannot judge a law, we cannot give a favourable opinion or not, if we do not analyse the cultural context, the principles and the reference values. I would like to stress the current state - I say this as a clinician, a senator and a bioethicist - as regards the social reductionism that characterizes not the relationship - attention to terms in bioethics and biopolitics - but the medical-patient relationship. This is because the medical-patient relationship is an anonymity between two subjects who contract their non-relationship. That is to say that in the dimension of human social reductionism is linked to the individual being who contracts, doctor with patient, a welfare behavior that can be the best possible. We have forgotten that in the human social dimension, being an individual is a surrogate of the dimension of being a person. In fact, in the dimension of relationality, or person as a relational fact, we go to build what in the field of care activity is called a therapeutic alliance, an alliance of care, a medical-patient relationship. To me it does not seem like a relationship, but rather a relationship based on an alliance that, more than therapeutic, is an alliance of care. Sorry, many times this kind of synonym is used between treatment and therapy; yet it is not so: therapy is in fact included in the cure, but it does not represent the cure itself. I would like to draw your attention to a substantial difference between treatment and therapy; therapy is nothing more than an event that takes place in the contingency of a pathological state; therefore, using a terminology of its own in the sphere of philosophy and bioethics, a reality of ontic order. As a result, the relationship arises in the contingency of a disease. However, it cannot be therapy synonymous with cure, because the dimension of the cure, which is also proper to the reality not only medical care, but also social assistance, is the ontological dimension of two people who meet in a recognized fragility. And it is that fragility of human being as a patient who finds in the other, as a doctor, his ally. I believe that this represents the purpose of this bill, a purpose that has been tried to translate into norms that, even if not perfect, as perfectible in the things of human nature, nevertheless tries to recompose that relationship and return it to a dimension of relationship. But why? Because in itself it is difficult to give rise to a relationship between two subjects when there is a diversity of the anthropological order, of the contentistic order and I would say even more of a semantic order. We know how there is a real conflict in the medical-patient relationship, a conflict between fundamental principles, between freedom and good and between what is meant by freedom by the doctor and how this, instead, is declined by the patient himself, and what represents the good, whether it represents the total good of the person as a patient or a merely mechanistic or biomedical good. Moreover, the other conflict is between autonomy and benefit: on this I would like to dwell a few seconds for a very simple reason, because within the medical-patient relationship there is always the declination of the four principles of the so-called Anglo-Saxon principle of Beauchamp and Childress. For these, there are four principles that standardise the medical-patient relationship: the principle of justice, the principle of autonomy, the principle of benefit and the principle of non-evilness. If we were to put these four principles on the same footing, we would not really be able to find an absolute principle of reference that could prevail over others. Yet among these four there is one that is certainly superior: the so-called principle of benefit, that is, meeting the needs not only therapeutic but of care towards the patient himself. The other three principles - justice, autonomy and not malice - come at a later time. In view of the principle of benefit, it is clear that we are going to redefine the order of this bill, which also has some very significant aspects, which has been agreed by the vast majority of the Health and Health Commission. I must stress, in this regard, the appropriate intervention made by my colleague Senator Laniece, who, with total sharing by myself, introduced telemedicine, for example, which is a branch of medicine often placed in the shadows but which in itself represents a large part of the future as well as of the actuality of medicine itself. Senator Laniece presented a bill on this subject, thus giving rise to an improvement through telemedicine introduced into a bill, not only to health care but also to the usability of care and early diagnosis. Of course, there have been some critical remarks made by some about the draft law itself. One of them I would like to put to our attention and it is the vexed question of informed consent: in this regard I thank the Government for having accepted my amendment, which has been transformed into a agenda, which points out the characteristic aspects of informed consent. Many times the informed consent today signed yes, is informed, but not shared. It follows that through the correct re-declination of informed consent, of which I must say this provision was absolutely necessary but that it was postponed to another draft law being examined in the Chamber, the medical-patient relationship could have been further re-trained through the clarification of consent, yes, informed but above all shared by the patient himself, through a rebalancing of two configgent principles: the principle of autonomy on the part of the doctor and the principle of autonomy and freedom on the part of the patient himself. I hope that as soon as possible on informed consent we will arrive at a clarification that is extremely detailed because only in this way, through an informed consensus and, above all, shared, can we resume that relationship, that alliance of care and therapy that is the foundation, the ultimate goal and the mission not only of doctors, but of all those who are involved for the good and the health of the patient. I believe that this can represent an important aspect of the bill, which seeks to propose an alliance through a redefinition regarding civil and criminal liability, in order to reduce the drift that characterizes defensive medicine today is widely and massively present both in the formulation of positive defensive medicine and in negative defensive medicine. At the conclusion of my explanation of vote, which I repeat is in favour of the bill, I would add that we have tried to ensure that from the dimension of "moral strangers," proper to contractualism, we move to the expression "moral friendship." From the sole principle of autonomy, which today characterizes contractualism, one tries to move to the benefit, which is personalism; from being for himself and interested in the protection of one's own interests (the one of the patient and that of the doctor who conflict in contractualism) to being for the other in the dimension of the covenant of care; from the separation that characterizes, once again, the contractualism to the relationship of us, which instead characterizes personalism; from a circular time - remembering what is the projection of health - one tries to move to a linear time, from the solitude of assistance to the solidarity of the covenant of care. From the dimension only of care, which is proper to contractualism, through this bill we want to move to the dimension not only of care, but even more and better to that of taking care. Finally, for the last but not least, while in the dimension of contractualism the good of the patient is declined only as a biomedical good (which is the foundation and which means doing well technically) another aspect is added to me and to all very dear that consists not only in doing well technically, but in doing the good of the patient himself. I shall conclude my speech. I thank you for your attention and I repeat the Group's support for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bencini, De Biasi and Battista.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u211	Our forums today are very crowded and, therefore, we must make a number of greetings. The students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico are present at Antonio Gallotta in Eboli, in the province of Salerno, which are in the first order of our stands. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause]] The students of the Technical Institute of Commerce are also present: Antonio Pacinotti of Pisa, who are, instead, in the second order of forums. We greet them and welcome them as they attend our work. [[Applause]] Finally, the representatives of the South Tyrolean hunting associations, to whom we welcome, attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u214	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, the Italian Left confirms the vote against the draft law that should have had the important objective of providing a clearer legal framework and greater protection for healthcare professionals and of trying to simplify the medical-patient litigation. In fact, today we are faced with a bill that guarantees greater legal protection to health professionals, to health companies both public and private, compared to the action of damages, but there is no equal increase in guarantees and protection for patients. Much more could have been done to balance the right of citizens and citizens to see the wrong and the harm suffered and, at the same time, to ensure greater protection for doctors and health workers, while at the same time ensuring the autonomy of the profession. On the other hand, the freedom of action of the doctor is limited because it is bound to precise guidelines, which will no longer become optional instruments of consultation and reference, but instruments that will risk imprisoning the autonomy of the doctor and fundamental for the protection of responsibility. The burden of proof of possible malasanity, a sick person forced to distangle between the contractual and non-contractual nature of responsibility, is laid on the sick person; and everything will become more complicated in an area already difficult in itself to interpret and ascertain. But perhaps this is precisely the objective that was sought: there will also be what is legally called the reversal of the burden of proof. In short, the citizen, in order to meet this new burden, should have scientific knowledge and the dynamics of the events that he obviously does not have, should have access to information that is not always in his availability, should have at his disposal evidence, asking those who have more powers than he and have no interest in giving it to him and who will do everything to hinder also the obligations on transparency. In short, how does a patient physically prove the responsibility of the doctor in thousands and thousands of different clinical cases, with all their infinite complexity? More could have been done to rebalance the right of citizens to see the wrongs acknowledged immediately and, at the same time, to ensure greater serenity for doctors and health professionals; but this balance has not been respected. We are in fact faced with a clear reduction in the level of protection of the citizen who is a victim of health. There is a limitation for crimes of manslaughter and personal injury, limiting the responsibility of health workers to the sole hypothesis of serious guilt and even excluding from the notion of serious guilt the hypotheses in which, without prejudice to the relevant specificities of the concrete case, good clinical care practices and recommendations provided by the guidelines, as defined and published under the law, have been respected. It is clear that this limitation significantly restricts the scope of protection of those who benefit from health care and this is even more serious in the criminal system, which places the value of life and physical safety at the heart of the whole system of detection and repression of crimes. This had already happened with the Balduzzi decree and with the three years of application, which had clearly highlighted all this. The Court of Cassation has already divided itself on the limitation of criminal liability to malpractice alone, with the exception of negligence and imprudence, which is necessary to define criminal guilt (as many colleagues have also explained today, in their speeches, and in the previous months, in which we have dealt with the discussion of this draft law), allowing to understand the problematicities and flaws of this limitation. Today, with this bill, we carry with us and further consolidate the twists that we had highlighted in many in the Balduzzi decree. An important part of the text has been removed, which concerned clinical risk, all health risk prevention and management rules that could have ensured that all public and private facilities could be used to monitor, prevent and manage health risk. Keeping the clinical risk and responsibility together would have had a different value. In the measure there is a sensitive issue, which concerns the insurance system and the choice of many regions, in recent years, to stop paying the insurances of companies and doctors who could also protect professionals and not only structures. This has opened up to a real insurance market and we understand the need to put at least the minimums on insurance premiums; but it has been decided to abandon citizens and the sacrosanct right to the protection of their own safety, exposing them to many legal and bureaucratic uncertainties and delays. And since we often talk about damage suffered when we are looking for help for our own health, we would have expected a system that would take care, beyond the scams, of the citizen in difficulty and not a system that defends itself. This is particularly serious when it comes to public structures. In short, for us there are many critical issues, many open questions and a certainty: the law represents an exchange between the protection, legal impunity and the autonomy of the doctor and weakens the protection of citizens' rights. Since constitutionally relevant interests are at stake, such as the right to health, it is not enough to stifle access to justice without investigating the real reasons for malasanity, which is a widespread phenomenon throughout the national territory, all too often linked to wrong cuts and political choices, as in the last case everyone has talked about. I am referring to the story of Nola, who is in the newspapers these days, where it is pretended that there are no serious political responsibilities of those who govern health care in that region. Perhaps it would have been more necessary to intervene also on the times of justice, because this is one of the issues that concerns the possibility of protecting citizens. Finally, I would like to add, among the problems that we have already highlighted, also the very bad management of the Assembly's work in relation to this bill. In memory of the past three years, I do not remember a bill that had such a diversified and jagged iter. I have to say that my colleagues in the Health Commission have been very patient in accepting the constant postponements of the measure, but this shows only and exclusively a political fact: the political difficulties and criticalities are so great that even the majority have had difficulty in approving this bill in a few sessions, in a normal legislative process, as we are used to doing. For all these reasons I confirm our vote against. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u217	AELLO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Madam President, in the general debate we had the opportunity to express our opinion on this draft law. We wanted it, we took part in the Commission and also in the House, during the general discussion, in the very approval of the project. That is why, once again, on behalf of my Group, I would like to thank the rapporteur, the Health Commission and the House in its entirety, of course in respect of the differences that have also emerged in the explanation of vote. We believe, however, that it is necessary for us to make a few brief and further clarifications precisely in order to strengthen what has been our work as a Group, in the debate in this House as well as in the Commission, and because, once again, we believe it is appropriate to clarify the essential points for us, those for which we have fought for the adoption of this very important measure. First of all, I would like to make one fundamental point: we believe that the relationship between doctor and patient is not an alliance; we strongly shout it out, Madam President. It is a relationship based on trust between two subjects, so the doctor or health care professional, in case he is contacted by the user, and therefore by the patient - or as we want to define him - works and has the obligation to work according to two fundamental principles: science and consciousness. There are only two, but these are the fundamental aspects for which a doctor or health care professional must respond to the demand for quality of performance, to the demand for health: science and consciousness. There are no other reverberations; there can be no legal hesitation or escapism, while respecting colleagues who have made exquisitely legal assessments of the adoption of this rule. We believe that the competence was and remains of the Health Commission, precisely because of the fact that it is a relationship between doctor and patient/user, a request for health, in which the doctor, according to science and conscience, must guarantee a certain quality of performance. Medical responsibility is a professional responsibility before criminal; it is useless that we turn around the speech: it is a professional responsibility (of science and conscience) before criminal responsibility. We have based our speeches on this report, together with colleagues from other political groups. However, we want to point out some important passages, such as the rebalancing of the relationship we are talking about: a relationship that had profoundly altered over the last few years. By now the doctor was no longer working with the serenity necessary to guarantee that science and consciousness of which we have spoken before and the patient sat before the doctor with the anxiety of not having the potential guarantee of the quality of the performance. It is above all on this point that the measure in question takes action. We are very happy to vote on it and to have contributed in the course of your examination, precisely because there is this balance between doctor and patient. Another important aspect that we wish to highlight is the inclusion of the principle of extra-contractuality, especially with regard to the public doctor, but also the doctor who works for the private affiliated facilities. I would remind my fellow Members that there has also been a wide-ranging debate in the Commission on this issue. This relationship finally regains a balance that is dynamic, precisely because of the fact - let us introduce here another important concept - that we must follow and adapt to the guidelines. I would like to thank the rapporteur for adding the word "good practice," which is a guarantee not only for the doctor, but also for the patient. In fact, there are times when the doctor is in need of scientific reasoning with his own conscience and that he has the possibility to believe that the adaptation to the guidelines is not an act of science, being perhaps an act of responsibility that of adapting and following good practices, regardless of the guidelines. This means respect for the patient and working according to conscience. Further action has been taken with regard to informed consent. In this regard, I would like to refer to the remarks made by Senator Romano with reference to the agenda accepted. We agree, Senator Romano, not informed consent but shared consent, which even more horizontalizes the relationship between doctor and patient. This is an important intervention and we would have liked an amendment to be adopted. In any case, we will work on the agenda in the future to try to plan the best possible way. The new relationship with insurance and conciliation are important aspects, on which we too have worked in our opinion and in our conscience. Could more be done? Certainly more could and could also be done to respond to the exceptions made by some colleagues, who are to be taken into account because they are aimed at further humanization of the relationship. We will always be ready to intervene and cooperate on this issue. What we are most concerned with is to ensure that this relationship is linear and based on trust and, in particular, on the serenity of intervention by the doctor or health care professional, as well as on the tranquility of the user. I repeat, therefore, that we are convinced that we are bringing home a good measure and that is why I confirm the support of my Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u218	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u220	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, the draft law that we are about to adopt has been profoundly changed compared to the text approved by the House of Deputies, demonstrating that bicameralism has its meaning. I would venture to say that the text we are about to adopt has greatly improved some of the aspects contained in the bill approved in the other branch of Parliament. The atmosphere that pervades the whole measure is, however, that of a contrast between the patient and the operator the health profession, almost as a result of the need to settle the dispute between counterparts. In no way does the measure emphasize and guarantee what should be the inspiring spirit of a law to protect the best possible care, that is that the patient citizen and the operator the health profession cannot be seen as counterparts, since only a relationship of mutual trust, in the context of rules to protect both, can be the basis on which to build the right and high quality health care for anyone and in any situation. Although Article 1 states that the safety of health care is a constituent part of the right to health and puts in place measures for the management of clinical risk, it seems not entirely sufficient when the conditions are not implemented so that there is a serene relationship between patient and health care personnel: in fact, as a professional rather than as a risk management company I would have preferred that the timing for an eco-guided agoaspirated thyroid that I have to do was not just 12 minutes. I believe that this example is so trivial that it has framed the problem, in the sense that if we do not give health professionals the opportunity to exercise quietly and serenely and to live the relationship with the patient, the conditions will be created that will then try to determine the revals. I recognise that the measure under consideration includes a number of factors, which it has not been easy to put together: I am thinking of the problem of health care structures, staff, patients, insurance, guidelines, all dressed up with complicated legal aspects. I recognise that the rapporteur has a great deal of synthesis and mediation, but it has not always been possible to strike a balance between the different interests. However, I believe that in a number of areas the compromise reached is acceptable and in some passages, such as Article 16, which is certainly valuable. As a member of the Group, I would like to point out that I believe that we have done a good job, which is also appreciated by the House, given that some of our amendments and agendas have been adopted and accepted. Nevertheless, some points do not convince us entirely, especially from the point of view of professional responsibility, because Article 6 contains a pejorative forecast of the current discipline (the Balduzzi Act). In addition, we also have the impression at the civil level that some rules are potentially detrimental to the principle of equality and equality in legal proceedings and to the contradiction between the parties. However, I believe that the most critical element of this measure, as we have seen this morning in the debate on certain amendments, is precisely the insurance profile, because we have seen that there is a very strong asymmetry between the insurance world and the health professions to the detriment of the latter and consequently also of patients. Moreover, even mutualizing some assessments about the car RC in these rules does not seem entirely appropriate to us. I would then have preferred to have accepted the agenda that provided for the possibility for health facilities to contribute with their legal offices more clearly in helping professionals, also because this was a problem that I have experienced personally and therefore from this point of view I understand when it is complicated. I would like to end with a reflection on the presence of legal doctors covered by Article 15. These indispensable professional figures are strongly protected in this article and should therefore be particularly attentive to the ethics and correctness of their work, not so much when they are technical consultants of the office (CTU) of the Public Prosecutor, which for obvious reasons must be safeguarded, but when they are partisan consultants, because very often with their overpaid expertise they start litigation to the detriment not only of the patient, but of the health structure and of the professional, who then end in nothing, counting on a system that rarely sees them then evaluated. Perhaps it would have been appropriate to consider these behaviors as aggravating and perhaps in this case we hope that professional bodies can intervene, at least in an area of reflection. For the reasons set out above, while acknowledging that the text presents elements of greater equity than that approved by the Chamber, I announce the abstention vote of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u223	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, there is no doubt that this measure, given the historical situation which has developed in the health sector, was of some urgency. I would like to echo what my colleague from the SEL Group said about the fact that the members of the Health Commission did not well to accept the way in which the House was run with regard to this measure, given that the previous Government often and gladly gave indications with countless decree-laws, so that the emergency always exceeded the ordinary. This needs to be noted. I would also like to stress, as other Members have done, the positive nature of the action taken and the debate in the Health Commission on this measure. A great deal of attention and accuracy has been paid in examining this provision and a general discussion has been held which, in my opinion, has improved the text compared to that received by the House. This result is due to the work of all Commissioners, by far. The measure required some urgency, because it is beyond doubt, especially because of the responsibility of the media in general, that the relationship between patient and doctor has been described in extremely negative terms, as if it no longer worked and as if this relationship were finally compromised. I very much agree with the calls made by some of my colleagues in the explanation of vote. It is right that inappropriateness and some cases of malasanity should be met from a media point of view, because the citizen must have a guaranteed health care on the part of everyone. However, it is beyond doubt that lately the aspects limited to malasanity have had the upper hand over the great and good health, that exists in this country, especially in some realities. In the last cases (as for the hospital in Nola, but not only), the responsibilities have been attributed to the health care staff, ignoring the political and managerial responsibilities, which have led those health care workers to operate under absolutely abnormal conditions, but this must be highlighted. The Government has responsibilities, for the past and for the present, with regard to the emergence of these situations; it should have taken steps to improve health, especially from the managerial and structural point of view. The limitations on funding and turnover must be reviewed if the citizen is to be guaranteed with ever better health care. Having said that from the general point of view, the measure presents some very positive aspects, but also some lights and shadows, in my personal opinion. In the sense that I would not want an excessive bureaucracy in the future, as was pointed out, with registers, against incredible records and medical records, to induce the doctor to deal, rather than the clinical aspect and the aspect of the cure, with the bureaucratic one in order to avoid successive measures that can counteract in its function, not only the medical part but also the structures. Not always, in fact, the appessation from a bureaucratic point of view, guarantees the prevention of malasanity. As for the relationship between doctor and patient, in my opinion, we must try to improve it and to give the doctor the certainty, following the guidelines, of having the necessary structures and resources. On the other hand, we must ensure that the citizen is guaranteed when health care is not working. And here there is also a problem of justice and timing, because the measure acts on the substance, but when then justice takes years and years to give a feedback in one direction or another also this is a guilt of the State in the substance. The measure, in my opinion, has tried to strike a fair balance between the responsibilities of the doctor, therefore the guarantees regarding the health care staff, and the possibility for the citizen to take advantage of himself when he suffers malasanity. And this is extremely important. There is also the chapter on insurance, which was first mentioned by the President of the Health Commission with regard to the issue of competition, because it is not sustainable that it was mentioned, namely that there are insurance companies that are not available and that cartels are made for which the policy has absolutely inaccessible costs for both medical staff and structures. I hope that the timetable for the guidelines and for this more exquisitely bureaucratic aspect will be substantially shared by the Government, because there must be a form of guarantee for both health care personnel and the patient. Recreating a trusted relationship between patient and health care becomes a key element. In my opinion, Parliament has done well to deal with this, although there are, as I said earlier, some shadow areas and some features that need to be improved, taking into account the experience that will be gained in the coming years. No law is born perfect, but it is important that experience in the field determines changes, if necessary, to the law that we are going to approve. For these reasons, although I have some concerns expressed by some of my colleagues during the general debate, I am voting in favour of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u226	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, when this parliamentary term began, one of the first measures, perhaps the first one we began to examine, was precisely that on professional responsibility, then called clinical risk or responsibility of the doctor. A number of years have passed and today we come to an approval that I find extraordinary. I understand that we have not always been clear with our colleagues, and I apologise for that, but the subject is truly extraordinarily technical and has largely involved not only the work of the Ministry of Health, but also that of justice. I would therefore like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for the patience they have had, because working together is not always a method that is adopted, but when this happens we achieve very positive results. This is a measure that I define as a system and I would like to say to those who point out that this is a measure that does not respond to the health problems that are not true, because this is a measure that is at the centre not of maintaining the health system, but of a real reform strategy. This measure, alongside that on the recognition of the health professions and on the reform of the orders (which - I would like to remind you - the Senate has fired and is now in the House and I hope you approve it quickly), are two cornerstones, also because in Italy there were no laws in this matter completely. We are talking about Europe, about cross-border medicine, about the possibility of care throughout Europe, about the European quality of health services, but Italy was behind: Italy was not in Europe and there is not yet until these laws are passed which are common standards in a very large part of the countries of the European Union. Much has been said about the substance of the measure. But let me also say, Madam President, that it is not true - I am ready to certify this and the speeches made by my fellow Members have shown this - what has been said in this House, namely that the measure has actually slowed down the work of this House because of political problems with the measure itself. This is not the case; this is demonstrated by the climate in the Commission, a broadly positive climate, and by the equally positive climate in this House. Rather, I attribute the alternating current of the House's work to problems of an organisational nature, but I should like to say that I do not regard political problems on the substance of the measure, even for the sake of the work of the Commissioners. I come to a few very brief considerations: let us start from the recognition that it has come from patient associations of the improvement of the bill in the work we have done in the Senate. It is very important because it signals the dignity of the citizen alongside the dignity of the health professional. I believe that this is an important recognition for the value of the National Health Service, because there has been talk of an alliance between doctor and patient. I say more: with this measure we move from an individual approach to the problem of responsibility to a participatory approach and a more active involvement of the patient. The possibility to request the medical file is certainly a challenge for an entire system, because the system will have to prepare all the technological innovation, with the electronic health file, necessary to allow the speed of a right. In fact, the second important point of this bill is the balance that we have managed to find, even in its imperfection (of course, no law is perfect), between the right of the citizen and the right of the health staff as a whole, starting from the medical world. Standards are used to make a system dynamic. To those who say that, in reality, it is an insufficient measure I say instead that it is a measure that lays the foundation so that you can work differently and organize the system in a different way, starting from the norm that places the insurance on the structure, a very important issue that requires a relationship, even with the insurance world, really different from the past. But we have already dealt extensively with this. The third point of great importance is that concerning research and taking charge by the Higher Institute of Health of the accreditation of the guidelines. Beware that it is a not irrelevant point, because at last there is a reference body sure and controlled by the Ministry of Health for everything that concerns the research and the evolution of clinical research and a greater safety, therefore, with an official validation of the choices that are made daily towards the person who needs assistance. It is a subject that really has the dignity of the citizen who certainly needs the certainty of care, the certainty of the quality of care and also the certainty of the law in the case of the adverse event. I would never want to see the commercials we saw on television again, with that microphone that said so vulgarly: Do you have a health problem? Did they hurt you? Talk to us. We know that 98 per cent of health causes end up in nothing and that only 2 per cent of them have the objective. What cannot be tolerated, however, is the use of pain and disease for commercial purposes. This will also affect insurance, certainly also concerns insurance: the professional side has experienced dramatic moments in recent years. We have reached a point where for a young doctor to pay 10,000 or 11,000 euros of annual insurance meant in fact not being able to work. And again, always in the field of insurance, there was a stage in which no company wanted to ensure any more because there was no more credibility. With this bill, this credibility returns, because the prerequisites are not only for solvency, but also for the need for clear and transparent rules that do not exploit for market reasons the professional dignity or dignity of the citizen. Thanking also for the patience that has been with respect to the complexity of the topic, I would like to conclude with a statement that in my opinion points to an idea of new reformism, of true reformism, about the possibility of not always seeking the testimony, not trying to always go to do +1, but to be content with an imperfect system that however can bring enormous advantages in the future and already today in the present. When it was interrupted, before the Christmas break, the examination of the measure, have arrived at the "Newspaper Health" more than 5,000 signatures of health professionals who have strongly and with concern asked for the examination of the measure to be completed. I answer that we have made it, and I answer not only to those 5,000 people, but to all Italians and Italians, to the people who live in our territory that today there is an additional possibility for the right to care, for that culture of security that is all round and that pervades and must continue to be present in the daily work of the National Health Service, one of the forms of that universalism of the National Health Service that we want to preserve as a value. I conclude by recalling the great Zygmunt Bauman, who said in a beautiful book entitled "Voglia di comunità": The best may be an enemy of good, but perfection is surely a mortal enemy of both. We know that we are imperfect, but we know that today we have written a small page for the right to health. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u229	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u230	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2224, in the amended text, with the following title: Provisions on the safety of care and the cared person, as well as on the professional responsibility of practitioners in the health professions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 1134 and 1648. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u233	WHITE, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to thank you and all the Presidents who have guided the work of the House in recent weeks, the debate and the vote on the measure. I wanted to thank all the members of this House, regardless of their belongings; I thank them for having testified to their identity and diversity, which is absolutely respectful and valuable to me and my culture. I thank the Ministries and Ministers involved in various ways in the measure: Minister Lorenzin, Minister of Justice Orlando, the Subsecretaries who attended the proceedings of the House and the Commission, yesterday De Filippo, today undersecretary Faraone, to whom I wish you every success. I also wanted to thank all the members of the 12th Commission, the Commission reporting the measure, and in particular President De Biasi. You have listened to her and you have also understood how valuable and indispensable her guide has been in bringing such a complex provision into port. In this context, I would also like to thank Mr Biancolatte and the entire Commission Office for their very valuable work. So thank you all; thank you for the work you have done. As President De Biasi has already said, perfection does not belong to us, but together - and I am happy about this - we have worked for a good measure. The hope is that the House of Deputies will quickly follow up on this work of ours. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u234	Thank you all for leading the Senate to a positive outcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u235	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-738.ana.u236	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 12 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.31 a.m.
