ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law on the recognition of the Italian sign language has not yet been received. We shall therefore proceed to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u11	VILLARI (GAL (DI, Id, GS, M, MPL, RI, E-E)). Mr President, I would like to point out that the voting mechanism did not work and did not register my vote during the verification of the quorum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that, Senator Villari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2291. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u13	Mr President, I address you, my fellow senators and the Subsecretary present. The draft law we are examining, which was presented to the Commission some time ago, is not particularly complex and the report will therefore also be very short. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u14	Colleagues, I cannot hear Senator Cucca; can I invite, who needs to speak, to sit outside or to shut up? Please, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u15	CUCCA, rapporteur. Thank you, President. The draft law before us is part of what has already been adopted by this Parliament, and it is a very sensitive issue, particularly in the last period, both at international and national level, namely the fight against corruption. I will not dwell on it, because we have talked about it many times in this House and in the Commission, about how much corruption has taken place, but I would like to stress that, equally firmly and decisively, our Parliament has taken a number of very strong and tough measures to combat this phenomenon. We have dealt with corruption in a number of other areas, particularly in the field of public administration, and we have approved some measures which have already entered into force and which are certainly having important effects. However, in fact, we have never considered a phenomenon that, fortunately, is not extremely widespread but for which we wanted to give a signal, providing for some specific aggravating factors if the offences indicated in the title of this bill, i.e. those provided for in Article 317, 319-b, 346 and 346- bis, are committed in the course of judicial activity. This is because the crimes committed in the field of judicial activity or in the exercise of the profession of forensics take on a very particular and important disvalue, given the roles that those who commit them play. In fact, they are persons who carry out judicial activity or in any case judicial activities in general, since in the Commission we have expanded the audience of those who can respond to these offences, including those who exercise the legal profession. With regard to these subjects there is, on the part of the public, an expectation of reliability and lawfulness of the conducts far superior to the ordinary behavior, which also requires the same honesty, lawfulness and reliability. I repeat that, from a certain category of people, we expect an attitude that is certainly much more reliable than other categories. This is the issue that is addressed by the draft law under consideration. The measure consists of five articles of which one was introduced ex novo in the course of work in the Commission. In this regard, I would like to stress that the measure has been unanimously welcomed, precisely because of the sensitivity of the issues it deals with and because of the sharing of the objectives it pursues. As I said, the measure consists of five articles and provides for aggravating penalties for crimes that already exist, some of which were introduced during the current legislature, in the context of the fight against corruption. Article 1 introduces an addition to Article 317 of the Criminal Code in relation to the offence of concussion. According to the norm, for the offence of concussion is expected an increase of the sentence up to half, if the corruptive facts have been committed in relation to the exercise of the judicial activity. Initially, the text contained the words "judicial activity" (i.e., "judicial activity") but preferred to modify the text using the words "judicial activity" (i.e., "judicial activity") in order to broaden the audience of the active subjects of these anti-juridical behaviours. Therefore, it was preferred to amend the rule with reference to the exercise of judicial activities and not to the exercise of judicial activities. Article 2 of the draft law introduces another aggravating factor, i.e. an increase of up to half of the penalty referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 319-b of the Criminal Code, in the event that the corruptive facts are committed - I read the initial text - by a lawyer in relation to the exercise of forensic activities. In the Commission, even with reference to Article 2, it was preferable to specify better in order to avoid any doubts of any kind. It has therefore been decided to provide for such a charge if the official gives or promises money or other utility to the public is a magistrate, a member of the auxiliary administrative staff of the magistrate, or exercises forensic professions. As I said, the initial text only referred to forensic operators, whereas in the Commission we thought we should extend the audience of the active parties, considering it right that people such as the magistrates or their assistants should also be included. In this connection, I would like to point out that we have introduced an Article 3 in the Commission, which specifically provides for the same aggravating penalty, i.e. the increase of up to half, also for Article 319 -quater of the penal code, i.e. the undue induction to give or promise usefulness, in the event that these offences are committed, once again, in connection with the exercise of judicial activities. This forecast has also been introduced for the completeness of the regulatory framework, because otherwise Article 319 -quater would have been without a specific worsening of penalty if the active person belonged to the audience of the people I recalled earlier. The former Article 3, today 4, following the introduction of the new Article 3, brings a new aggravating circumstance for the crime of mollant credit. In this case, too, the penalties have increased up to half if the facts envisaged are committed in connection with the exercise of judicial activities. As you know, Article 346 of the penal code provides for two different criminal hypotheses, with different structure and configuration, respectively in the first and second paragraphs. The case referred to in the first paragraph, sanctioned with the penalty of imprisonment from one to five years and with the fine from euro 309 to 2.065, consists - in order to specify it better - in millantare credit to be given by a private money or other utility as the price of its mediation to a public officer or employee. The conduct indicted in the second paragraph, punished with the penalty from two to six years of imprisonment and with the fine from euro 516 to 3.098, is to be paid on the pretext of having to buy the favor of a public official or to have to pay it. Even in this case the penalty, when performed by the subjects I have repeatedly recalled, is increased to half. The former article 4, today article 5, last of this bill, intervenes instead on the crime of trafficking of illicit influences. This is an issue which has been the subject of important discussions over the last few years; a particularly sensitive issue which we have dealt with many other times in this House as well as in the Commission. Trafficking in illegal influences has also been widespread, which is why it has been decided to provide for the same escalation of punishment, i.e. the increase of up to half, if illegal conduct is put into practice, once again, by the persons repeatedly recalled. Always with the idea that these people are expected to work with extreme reliability and transparency, it has been considered right and appropriate to provide for a specific increase in punishment where they are responsible for this kind of crime. This is also to give a complete regulatory framework, since in the initial text these figures were not expressly provided for. Mr President, I believe that the measure in question is extremely important. That is why it was decided in the course of the work in the Commission to pay particular attention to this issue and that a great deal has also been done to try to make it as uniform as possible with regard to the system. I believe that this work has also been successful and for this we must thank all those who participated, majority and opposition, in a very effective way to achieve the result. I hope that the same behavior will also be carried out in the course of this evening's debate in this House, and that the measure can therefore be adopted quickly. I would also like to point out that I tabled an amendment in particular which had already been agreed in the Commission but the deadline for submission had expired. In the course of the work, when we go to examine the amendments, I will try to explain the reasons why we have proposed it, where necessary. Mr President, allow me - I always do, but I really do so with great conviction - to thank the Commission officials once again, because they really work with great self-denial and with great willingness, by making all their efforts available to bring all the measures to the attention of the Commission and the House, even, sometimes, in a sudden fashion. I believe, therefore, that special thanks must be given to them, and I do so sincerely. This is a thank-you which must be repeated - and every time I have the opportunity to do so - because it is people who work very closely with us in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u16	Thank you, Senator Cucca, also on behalf of the Administration and the officials. Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u17	Mr President, I am speaking for the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement, and I would like to point out at once that my speech has an objective: that of not underestimating the scope of the measure. In fact, according to what the rapporteur has said, it would seem - and certainly is - a measure that has been very much shared in the Commission and almost slowly in its introduction, so much so that it would almost be wondering why we did not think about it before. Actually, it's not like that. This is a measure that introduces aggravating sentences - as the rapporteur has said with great intellectual honesty - for crimes committed in connection with judicial activities. This must first of all ask us, because here, before we vote on the measures, we must discuss them and understand the context in which they are born. The measure, in itself, in my opinion says two things. Firstly, it was born in a historical phase in which there were certainly many judicial events involving judges, lawyers and legal practitioners in the broad sense and therefore does not fill at all a gap, because the crime cases, being common offences, concerned and also concern these subjects. However, the text does not entrust itself to the magistrate, who can always, between a minimum and a maximum of the penalty, value the subjective qualities, the particular competence and the particular responsibility of those who commit a crime, for the purpose of quantifying the penalty, but also provides for the measure of the act itself. It is, therefore, a measure that must be contextualized: it is born at a stage in which, for a verse, there is a case law that I would not say relevant, but certainly not to be underestimated of judicial cases that involved magistrates, lawyers and administrative staff. For example, with reference to the last story that concerned Calabria with, the 52 arrests yesterday morning in the province of Catanzaro, there is talk of an informant who was part - assuming that all this is proven - of the staff of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic (it seemed to me to understand so, it is journalistic news and I pass it for what they are). The measure under consideration therefore takes up this aspect. However, just telling it, while considering it favorably but trying to fully understand its objective, we must recognize that it is a measure that looks with a certain suspicion to the judicial world. It is emphasized, in fact, the possibility that these things will happen and the case study shows us this not daily, but often. How many times do you exercise overt credit, corruption in court proceedings, or abuse of influence, whether proven or not? How many times do these aspects occur in everyday life? Well, when the authors of these conducts are legal practitioners, this is certainly more serious. I spoke of an attitude of disfavor, because one tends to have insufficient confidence in the quantification of the penalty that the magistrates operate. In fact, it is not even provided with a simple aggravating factor, but it is possible to intervene on the quantification of the penalties. So I want to say my own: of course, with regard to the justice system and the possible reforms, this is the last of the measures that I would have expected and which I would have considered interesting to introduce. At the same time, I maintain that there is no reason to reject it or not to accept it, provided that this measure is not classified as a reform or a revolution and provided that it is not emphasised too much: in fact, it seems to me out of place and out of the historical context in which we are living. I will not make it long, but I would like to make another remark: in the draft law we are discussing only articles 317, 319-b, 319-c, 346 and 346-a of the penal code. Well, there must have been a common thread that led the Commission to qualify these crimes rather than others, there must have been a reason for this selection. Of course, these are the crimes where justice is most likely to occur, and this will probably be the reason why these articles of the Code have been listed. Therefore, for my part there is no fire of barrier and no preliminary attitude, but there is a cautious attitude of favor towards a measure that does not seem to me to be a revolution or a reform, but that still offers, to those who apply the law, an additional instrument to be strict in certain circumstances. I, who have full confidence in justice and law enforcement, would probably have given the judge a greater chance to quantify the sentence, because judges do not always impose the minimum penalty and do not always recognize the general attenuators, but work with the code at hand, taking into account also the subjective qualities of the defendant. A judge who is in front of a guilty attorney or a magistrate responsible for corruption in court proceedings is certainly not tender, under such circumstances. So let us move forward with this measure and see how they think about it in the House of Deputies. Finally, I note that the first signatories to the measure are two magistrates and this seems surprising to me. This makes me think that when you retire, you move away from the judiciary and look at it with too much disfavor. I have not yet retired, but I am a magistrate in expectation and I hope that in the future I will not incur this attitude, I hope that I can trust others, just as I tried to have confidence while I was not part of a caste, but of the judiciary, to which I have always looked with great confidence and respect, regardless of my belonging, [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u18	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u19	Mr President, the measure under consideration provides for amendments to the Criminal Code on crimes against public administration and in particular introduces amendments to Articles 317, 319-b, 319-c, 346 and 346-a of the Criminal Code. We are talking about crimes of concussion, of corruption in court proceedings, of boastful credit and of trafficking in illicit influences. In essence, the measure introduces aggravating penalties for cases where the commission of offences takes place by those who carry out the forensic profession or exercise so-called judicial activities close to the court. We're talking about a judge's or a prosecutor's assistant. The stated aim of the measure is to a certain extent acceptable and is to highlight the particular social disvalue of this conduct, in view of the expectations of reliability of the conduct of those subjects. On the other hand, the introductory report attached to the measure speaks in a very clear and acceptable way of combating corruption. In the report it is said in a linear way that corruption risks becoming an environmental and endemic phenomenon, and that it determines, over time, a sort of perverse habit of corrupting it. This is the risk, if you do not intervene with effective tools to counter corruptive phenomena. Therefore, effective contrast strategies are necessary. The consequences of corruption are all known to us and are very serious in terms of costs, the subtraction of resources, the renunciation of opportunities and, more generally, the distorting effects of the relationship - these are the shareable parts of the relationship - for the democratic life of the country itself, and they require a strong and effective reaction of the institutions. This type of crime could even be equated with the most serious types of organized crime (we talk about mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta). Corruption is, therefore, like mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta. We could have written this premise, but we are not talking about effective tools to combat corruption: the measure is limited to tightening the penalties for judges, lawyers and auxiliaries. The problem is so serious and pervasive that it even threatens the democratic hold in our country, it is a problem that in many, I first, define a cancer of democracy, well, this problem are lawyers, chancellors and auxiliary judges and pm: there is never the term "political" or the term "administrative". We want to combat the phenomenon of corruption by intervening with a measure that does not even take into account the heart of the problem. We have tried to make our contribution to improving the measure. We have tabled amendments. I will briefly describe them, but we will have the opportunity to look into them. First of all, Amendment 1.1, which provides for a reform of the limitation period, because we can have all the laws to counter the corruptive phenomena we want, but if the process is prescribed, they are of no use. Our proposal is very simple: the prescription ceases to operate after the decree that arranges the judgment. Prescription is the tool of politics to never reach a sentence of condemnation. By suspending the limitation period, we would first of all have the certainty of punishment, faster times and shorter processes, because we would make much more use of the abbreviated rite and the plea. We ask not only to intervene on the prescription, but also to consider the so-called Daspos for the corrupt. What is the Daspus? It is an ancillary penalty that we have proposed many times in Parliament's classrooms; it provides for bans from public offices and the inability to contract with the public administration for those who have been guilty, with a judgment passed in court, of serious crimes against the public administration. Once Renzi said that it would never happen again and that the Daspus would be introduced for the corrupt. Renzi said so and, in fact, it was not done. We have little to be surprised: Renzi three days ago didn't he say that the Committee of Inquiry into the banks would immediately take place? In fact, yesterday, in the House of Deputies, the Democratic Party rejected the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry into Banks as a matter of urgency. And I say this to remind you of the credibility of certain statements. It's not just the prescription, it's not just the Daspus. We have proposed an amendment to this measure which also allows for so-called undercover operations. Often the 5 Star Movement - and it is not the only one - has declared itself in favour of this important innovation, in order to provide investigators with effective tools to bring out the corruptive fact. And this is a tool that works very well in many countries and we, who have a problem of greater corruption, do not use it. Why? But do we really want to counter corruptive phenomena? So, if we really want to counter the corruptive phenomenon, why do we let the proposal to introduce so-called whistleblowing into our country, that is, a rule that provides to protect those who denounce corruption and, to some extent, reward it? This rule, already approved in the Chamber, then, once again, inexplicably stranded in the Senate. We must reform the fake in the budget, which is a very serious crime. Think of the damage he caused. I am Venetian and I come from Vicenza, where there is the headquarters of Banca Popolare di Vicenza. In Treviso, on the other hand, there is Veneto Banca. We are talking about fakes in the budget and we are talking about 200,000 families cut short. We can talk about the reform of 416-b: no to any alliance between the mafia and politics. The current wording is ineffective, and we know that. So... Let's reform it. Do we want to talk about self-laundering and its reform that, in fact, does not address, if not to a minimum, the problem of this crime in our country? In conclusion, there would be many things to do to effectively combat the phenomenon of corruption in our country. But, once again, we do nothing about everything I've mentioned so far. Then, perhaps, this measure serves to put a flag and to be able to say that we have done something, as if the problem of corruption in Italy were referable to lawyers and chancellors. With the adoption of just one of the amendments we have proposed, we could give a significant boost to the fight against corruption in our country. So, we really have a historic opportunity. We have had it many times and it is repeated again. And if we do not know how to catch it, we will have, once again, the so-called mountain that gives birth to a mouse: a measure that may be shared, but useless on the level of countering corruption in our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u20	There is a representative of the European Youth Association of Frosinone and Latina, to which we wish to extend our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u22	Mr President, why this measure? The reason is very simple: when we dealt with the crimes of corruption and concussion and the crimes against the public administration, it was not thought to imagine worsening when the subjects who were responsible for these crimes belonged to a certain category of operators in our country. Senator Lo Moro's suspicion of the judiciary? I don't think so. The measure in question does not underlie any suspicion of the judiciary. In fact, I believe that it is the certification of the respect that the country and its citizens have towards the judiciary. I believe that the judiciary is the body of greatest guarantee: the judges represent a point of reference and of certainty, at a time when in our country really everyone is hit by a collective imaginary that sees corruption and crimes committed at any level by any state body. Well, to the judiciary it is a preventive activity. If this important pillar of a country's democracy collapses too, then we really are at a loss. Imagine, therefore, the aggravating factors for all those who guarantee and give guarantees of democracy, fairness and justice in our country means precisely this. For the truth, I did not really appreciate the remarks made by Senator Lo Moro regarding the reasons that would have led the first signatories to this text to put it in place, reasons which can now be seen as being foreign to the judiciary. I believe that a magistrate who has worked and worked for thirty or forty years in the field of justice and served the State in that area cannot, at the time of his retirement, have a different consideration than that which was the consideration of himself when he did justice in our country. The rapporteur, Mr Cucca, has, as always, spoken with two correct amendments. He has better placed and qualified the category of persons to whom the measure is intended. It therefore seems to me that the two amendments tabled by the rapporteur also allow the Senate to dismiss a text which goes in the direction of guarantee for citizens and greater authority for the judiciary itself. For these reasons, the Group to which I belong (ALA-Civic choice) will vote in favour of this measure, which goes beyond what the political parties are. When we share a measure - and I hope we will do so today - it is right to vote on it. When a measure goes in the direction of meeting the needs of the community in the interest of the country, it is unholy not to vote for it, even if it is part of a political force of opposition. On a serious measure such as this, a measure that fills a gap that we ourselves - alas - have created with approved measures on crimes against public administration, there can be no opposition. It is true that other measures could be discussed and we are committing our time to something that perhaps does not deserve our attention. This is a personal evaluation. I believe that corruption, concussion and crimes against public administration is a topical issue on all the others. To conclude, at a time when we expect very severe penalties against mayors, administrators and public administrators who commit crimes against public administration, it does not mean that they do not have confidence in them. Therefore, I do not understand why we can make laws that counter corruption, neglecting to consider a kind of respect and respect for the administrators of our country, which they deserve, and instead we should block ourselves in doing the same in relation to a category of legal practitioners. I believe that there can be no opposition to a measure such as this, which we welcome, and we shall be voting little by little with conviction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u23	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u24	Mr President, I find it very strange that those who have enthusiastically voted on recent measures, such as the one which introduced the crime of street murder, namely on the same corruption in general terms, which all provided for a significant increase in punishment, can address, even to two old men like me and Senator Caliendo, the criticism that all this arises out of distrust in the judges. It's not like that. The reality - I am addressing this criticism - is that distrust in judges, in particular in the exercise of discretionary power over the quantification of the sentence, afflicted exactly to the two laws that I had recalled, having increased to an extent the minimums of the penalty and almost little the maximums, precisely because it was wanted, by the legislator, evidently not content with the action of the judges, that the penalties were all such that they could open or open the doors of the prison to those who had committed those crimes and without exceptions of any kind. So - I open and close a parenthesis with an example - the urban policeman, who gets bribed for 50 or 100 euros, will respond to the crime of corruption - as it is right that it is - which currently provides for an eight-year sentence of imprisonment. How reasonable this is is not to be deepened here. So the criticism - I'm sorry - is not correct. When I was a young magistrate, my assistant prosecutor asked me one day if I knew who the cassationists were. In view of my curiosity, he replied that we would be old people. Senator Caliendo and I - alas - have seen the passing of years. But Senator Caliendo and I retired when we were still in service and had more years of service ahead of us. And we are retired because we believe, unlike others, that those who have decided to enter politics cannot then claim to go back to the judiciary, in addition preserving the appearance of impartiality. In other words, we believe that Marx was right when he stated - I clearly soften the term - that you cannot be prostitutes and virgins at the same time. To be clear - I will be very brief - the draft law under consideration was born for two reasons. The first reason is absolutely systematic: I must explain why there is a specific crime of corruption in judicial acts, i.e. essentially an aggravated hypothesis compared to the normal hypothesis of corruption, and it should not be expected, for example, the hypothesis of a concussion committed by the magistrate. This is possible and sometimes it has also happened, in particular, then, if corruption in judicial acts has a minimum and a maximum penalty absolutely similar, and in an identical case, to the crime of concussion. Therefore, there is no one who can not see that the identity of punishment between corruption in judicial acts and the concussion committed by a magistrate provides sanctions between them absolutely contrary to the reasonableness of the system. That's all, that's all. If there is a crime of corruption in judicial acts, it exists because any crime against public administration is considered far more serious than all others, where committed with reference to judicial activity. If that is true - and it is true, because in our system there is already the crime of corruption in judicial acts, which is aggravated from the point of view of sanctioning by the law recently launched by the Senate - there is no reason not to close the system and consequently to foresee an aggravated hypothesis for the crime of concussion and a series of aggravated hypotheses also for those crimes such as the trafficking of influences, the millant credit and the same corruption in judicial acts where committed by certain categories of persons. It is said that it would have been possible to foresee a simple addition, because this would have given full confidence to the judges who, by hypothesis, through the judgment of equivalence and prevalence, can act on the sanctioning mechanisms precisely through this judgment. Of course, we could have done so, but it would have been a choice in open contradiction to the autonomous hypothesis of crime that is corruption in judicial acts. Those who have had the opportunity to attend courtrooms and to be interested in law, or to be interested in law without attending courtrooms, or to attend courtrooms without having an interest in law, know well that there has been a long discussion in the Court of Cassation if the hypothesis of corruption in judicial acts was an aggravated hypothesis or an autonomous crime and the conclusion was exactly that it was an autonomous crime. Of course, we could not foresee all these autonomous hypotheses of crime, and from there necessarily came the choice to operate through circumstances with special effect, and therefore circumstances such as to avoid, through the judgment of equivalence or prevalence, an excessive lowering in the sanction. But how can you imagine that the crimes of corruption, millant credit or abuse of influence that, instead of being put in place by any citizen, are committed exactly by those subjects who, for the activity they carry out (magistrates, lawyers, auxiliary staff of judges), have greater credibility - I am thinking in particular of the muffled credit or the traffic of influences - or greater possibility of access than the decision-making junction? It does not seem to me that all this is unreasonable and I am surprised - I must say the truth - that, beyond the youngest age of Senator Caliendo and mine, Senator Lo Moro, who for a certain period of time actually served in the judiciary, does not understand how the second purpose of this law is the protection at all costs of neutrality, even in appearance, of judicial action. When we begin to create a series of sanctioning barriers that concern certain crimes (corruption, millant credit and abuse of influence) with reference to the court's action, we create a deterrent to what is normally called process adjustment. Return to twenty-five years ago and you will realize how, wrongly or rightly - it seems wrong, but it doesn't matter here - part of that judicial phenomenon was precisely the decisions of the judges. More seriously sanctioning anything that in some way can touch the image of the magistrate who has to decide is something that protects the good name and prestige of the judiciary. I repeat that it protects the good name and prestige of the judiciary. I do not believe that the prestige of the judiciary can be seriously protected if the muffled credit - I make the example of the muffled credit, that is, something that absolutely does not concern the magistrate who decides - is put in place by those who have the possibility to approach that judge for reasons completely different from the adjustment, and can be seen by the client or by the person to whom he works in more or less affable conversation with the judge. Look, these aren't things that don't exist. In 1980 I went to do a questioning in France and I was struck by the fact that the judges were not at all approached by anyone when they moved in the corridors or near the courtrooms. I asked why and it was explained to me that or they had to have the rudeness to turn away those who approached them, that was not appropriate that approach; all to protect the image, as well as own, of the judiciary. I must say that I, in 25 years of my career, never went to get coffee at the bar, probably because I was afraid of all this. But I believe that those who say that this is a measure that is based on the distrust of the judges or against the judges have a short-sighted reading of the text and probably do not even know where the protection of the prestige of the judiciary lies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and GAL groups (DI, Id, GS, M, MPL, RI, E-E) and Senator Crosio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u25	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendments 1.1, 1.0.1, 1.0.2, 1.0.3, 1.0.4, 3.100, 3.0.100, 5.100, 5.0.100, 5.0.101 and 5.0.103 cannot be proposed, as they are outside the scope of the bill, which amends the penal code exclusively with regard to offences committed in the exercise of judicial activity. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u26	Mr President, on Amendment 1.2, I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u27	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u28	Amendment 1.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.1 to 1.0.4 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u29	Mr President, on Amendment 2.3, I am against it. I withdraw amendment 2,500 and maintain amendment 2,501 because they have the same content but a different wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u30	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,500 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,501 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Since Amendments 3,100 and 3.0,100 are unacceptable, we shall proceed to the vote on Rule 3. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4 and the amendment tabled to it, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u32	Mr President, the opinion on amendment 4,100 is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u33	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5 and the amendments tabled to it, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u35	Mr President, I am against Amendment 5101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u36	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u37	Amendment 5,100 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5101. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 51.01 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.0.100, 5.0.101 and 5.0.103 are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u40	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the corruption is unfortunately very serious and still finds ample fertile ground in many areas. Just think of the data contained in the European Commission's Report on Combating Corruption, which shows that 90% of Italian companies think that corruption is the easiest way to access certain public services; 70% of Italians consider corruption to be a widespread phenomenon in public procurement and 69 percent consider corruption to be a widespread phenomenon in local procurement. The annual cost of corruption in Italy amounts to EUR 60 billion, equivalent to 4% of GDP. Throughout Europe the cost of corruption amounts to EUR 120 billion and, therefore, in practice we have a prerogative of the phenomenon, unfortunately very typical of Italy. As colleagues have already pointed out, the risk is that corruption will become a form of habit in the way it operates within and in its relationship with the institutions. Maybe the corruptive phenomenon is not that, simple and banal, of the old bribe. The figures that criminals have developed and created are in fact more complex and more difficult to highlight, but corruption remains. Our Gianfranco Miglio said that, after so many years of limited sovereignty, one risks arriving at a sort of coexistence with limited legality, becoming Italy a good country only to welcome filibusters of every origin. Corruption, therefore, is a phenomenon that must be strongly fought, as we are trying to do, because surely the greater the sensitivity - as it has been represented in recent years - in this regard. Then, with respect to the fact that effects arise, to posterity the arduous sentence. The problem is that the phenomenon becomes more hateful if it finds fertile ground at the courtrooms. As the rapporteur rightly said, there is the expectation on the part of citizens that the judiciary and all those involved in the world of justice will take action and work towards a greater sense of legality, honesty and fairness. This greater expectation, which comes from citizenship as an expectation of civilization, must obviously lead to an increase in penalties and a serious sanction in the event that the operators of the world of justice detach themselves from the principle of legality. Perhaps it is an almost utopian attitude, but those who work in the world of law know that procedures are called rites, as if to recall a function that has almost religious implications. Perhaps the court must become a sacred place, and so it must be. At a time when there is doubt about the work of the judiciary, the work of the court and of those who work in justice, gentlemen, the establishment of justice collapses. There is no point in providing for a rule, penalty or penalty if the citizen does not have the confidence that a certain law will be respected or enforced in the courtrooms. It is one of those shadows that can destitute the establishment of a civilization and a legal culture. Therefore, the independence of the judiciary must not be limited to legitimate powers. It must be above all an independence and a detachment from those who are the illegitimate powers and certainly from the corruptive phenomenon. That is why the bill should come well to our examination, born from the initiative of Senators Palma and Caliendo, who were magistrates and perhaps also know the world of the judiciary. We cannot, therefore, fail to share the findings of the work that has been done in the Commission. There are few articles. The measure seems slim, but the implications are important, because we talk about crimes committed in connection with the exercise of judicial activities, and foreseeing not only aggravated hypotheses, but above all an increase in penalties. As I have already said, the expectation of justice must be respected and demanded above all of those who act in justice. The only thing that we are allowed to do, in any case confirming our vote in favour of the measure, is to highlight certain doubts which may arise over almost all the measures on justice adopted, in particular in this last parliamentary term. It is right, in fact, as foreseen in the text, to imprint the activity with a particular rigor and to provide for a particular sanction at the moment when compliance with that rigor inherent in the norm fails. But the problem is that that penalty will fail if we do not have the certainty of punishment and its application. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If there is no effectiveness in the application of the sentence, there is no repressive response and then the deterrent effectiveness of the norm is also lost. That is why it is unnecessary to provide for aggravated sentences and aggravating circumstances if the establishment of the system, as it has been structured, with the various benefits granted, ultimately removes the effectiveness that we are asking for. Therefore, the measure is fine, but we call - and we will never stop doing so - this majority and the Government to stop all the measures that have been taken to empty prisons. Now everything is silent and perhaps not everyone notices it, but it is those measures that lead to early release, arrests and immediate release, to those who do not go to jail, to those who do not actually suffer the penalty due to them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u43	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, Senators, we are dealing with this bill and I have to say that, with all the problems that the planet has, justice, I would really like to laugh, not to smile. With all the issues that we still have before us, the Justice Commission and the House, dealing with the sector (corruption, prescription, fight against crime, anti-mafia code, civil trial, peace judges, honorary judges), we literally waste time dealing with such a measure. While noting this, I say now, to avoid misunderstandings, that, as I did in the Justice Commission, I will vote in favour of the measure in this House, as will the Article 1-MDP Group; But I think that some considerations and clarifications need to be made. It is amazing that we are dealing with this matter and we leave out all the real knots, the gangrene of the justice sector. All the themes I referred to just give the feeling of the time: the meaning of our times. If from a political point of view you can understand that there is a deviation of attention to controllers and that you try to dump responsibilities that are of others (of politics but not only) on those who should simply apply the law, in other ways you have the feeling that someone, in various areas, also has feelings of resentment towards this category of workers and people. I say this in the knowledge of the amending proposals that I myself have put forward in the Commission, because this text was not written in technical terms either. For example, when reference is made only to the exercise of judicial activity we do not realize that it, although not all of them, includes the prosecutors; therefore the technical corrective amendments that we have had to present have been aimed at giving an overall sense to the bill. I would not like to see this method of dealing with the issue of justice given the utmost importance. In fact, from the point of view of substantive law and criminal law, once again it is thought that we can solve the problems of justice only by increasing penalties. Instead of running the judicial offices, the prosecutor's offices, the judges' offices, the secretariats and the chancellor's offices, instead of making sure that the Supreme Council of the judiciary itself is able to intervene and verify what the judges are doing, instead of adopting the instruments that allow verification, even preventive, of the activity not only judicial, but also judicial, it is thought to solve the problem of corruption in the judiciary by means of a flag measure (or flag, I would not know how to define it), in some ways, I repeat, even ridiculous, that increases the penalties. I repeat what I said in the Commission: if a magistrate commits this kind of crime - corruption, concussion - in my view it is necessary to condemn it to ten times the penalty, not to increase it by half. It is serious from an institutional point of view that such a situation can occur, but it is ridiculous that we should act in this way. We operate the control systems within the judiciary, we operate the mechanisms of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and, above all, we ensure that the opportunity is given to work. I conclude my brief speech - because I believe that this bill does not deserve much more time - by reminding us all, myself, first of all: we are dealing with the real issues of justice, the issues of organised crime, the anti-mafia code (which is still in the sands of the Justice Commission and we hope it will come to this House as soon as possible), the civil process, the reform of the honorary judges and the judges of peace and all the other issues that are blocked within the Justice Commission. In this way we will certainly do something useful for the country and also something honourable for this Parliament. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u46	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, earlier, in the general debate, I focused my attention on the professional figure of the judge and therefore on one of the recipients of the measure, but among the recipients there are also lawyers, for the crime of millant credit. I, who practiced professional policy, took over the chair of a lawyer's order and held it for about ten years, very much welcome the measure under consideration, because the figure of the lawyer had in the past and has always had his authority in history. Being a lawyer meant being a noble person and promoting a philosophical thought in our country. Being a lawyer is something important. When it is expected, as the measure under consideration does, a stricter sanction for those lawyers who degrade this historical role of lawyering does not offend me, but rather I thank Senator Nitto Palma and Senator Caliendo for having imagined the norm and for having filled this void that was present in the specific crimes of certain legal practitioners. I thank them, because I believe that this is useful to restore authority and to constitute and represent a sort of deterrent to the commission of certain crimes, which are odious, first of all because with the generous credit it casts a shadow also on the figure of the judge. I am of the opinion that the judge cannot be overshadowed by anything. The judge, before being impartial, must appear such and when an attorney lends himself to the commission of such a hateful crime, not only compromises the authority of the lawyer, but also compromises the authority of the judge, in a serious and unconscious manner by the judge himself. We therefore reiterate our vote in favour of this measure and allow me to add my thanks to the authors of the text and in particular to the Senators Palma and Caliendo. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u49	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration certainly does not introduce a historical change in our penal code and it is clearly not against the magistrates. However, it is equally clear that there is no virginity regardless of the magistrates, as there is no virginity for the other citizens either. What we are examining is a law against dishonest magistrates and it is astonishing that, to date, this deficiency has not been grasped. I repeat that the legislation, which fills this gap, does not affect the honest, but highlights the possibility that even those who are called upon to judge citizens and thus place themselves in a higher position can commit serious crimes, such as corruption and concussion. Without taking too much time away from the debate in this House, Mr Casson, remembering that this is a measure that we will approve in about two hours, contrary to other measures of minor importance, which have committed our Assembly for days, I express the strong support of the Socialist Party-Autonomous Group, because today we are doing well to overcome this deficiency. I hope that the other House, in other matters occupied, will not put too much time into the final adoption of the law. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u52	ALBERTINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will be very brief in the speech in which I declare my Group's adherence to the measure, which is in harmony and in great coherence with other far-reaching interventions in the area of combating crimes against public administration: corruption, concussion and all these crimes. It is consistent precisely because it makes the deterrent towards the hateful crimes of this nature against justice and against those who must be, for deontological reasons and institutional loyalty, even more adherent to the laws and respectful of the norms precisely because dedicated to the very important and essential function of applying the law with fairness and justice. I feel I can say that this rule, which apparently seems to be, as has been raised by someone, a rule that induces elements of distrust towards the category togata (whether it is of magistrates, of legal practitioners or of defenders and patrons such as the lawyers), is instead placed to protect their dignity because it protects them from the pitfalls that may exist in very complex situations, such as that of judging, and from the influences that can be exercised - sometimes perniciously - on those who also have full autonomy and absolute discretion - in many cases free from disciplinary interventions - in applying and interpreting the rules and in assessing the evidence. Moreover, already in general discussion, with some critical notation, it has been seen that in the approval of the individual articles there was a very large majority. There is therefore no need to oppose anti-nomic positions with regard to this measure. Wanting to conclude before the ten minutes that I have been assigned with a civetteria, as is perhaps my tradition, I will make a quote once again Latin, but not as serious as happened in other circumstances. I detect it from a satire of Juvenal: "Quis custodiet ipsos custodias?." We answer: it is in order to give protection to those who are the guardian of the law that we give them the tools so that they can better exercise their function. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u55	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we very much share the incipit and the tone of Senator Casson's explanation of vote. I say this because, in my opinion, the measure is very much emphasized, even judging by some tones used in the explanations of vote. Let us say very clearly that we have a number of reservations, not about the measure itself, about the fact that the measure comes to the end of a parliamentary term - I also say this to Senator Casson to underline this aspect - which he saw through a series of measures fired by the Justice Commission and then by the House, a continuous, constant and exponential growth of penalties. Someone mentioned the traffic homicide, but we could mention more. So much so that it is no coincidence that in this measure there was already an attack on corruption for the magistrates. In this case, other aggravating factors are added with regard to concussion and also with regard to other hypotheses concerning favoring or harming a party in the process or the crime of trafficking in illicit influences, but we are talking, precisely, of aggravating factors that are grafted on a mechanism of considerable increase in penalties. Can we certainly be satisfied that we are dealing with such a serious phenomenon, which affects our society, such as corruption, only and only with the increase in penalties? I do not think so; I think that serious reasoning would have meant, even in depth, putting in place a number of other instruments. Of course, even with regard to further aggravating factors that are being introduced here, how can we say that they are not right? When a serious matter of concussion is committed directly by the person who should administer justice in an absolutely impartial way and be a guarantee for the citizens, it is certainly a fact, from the social, political and proper point of view of the citizens' confidence in justice, which is absolutely reprehensible and serious. I come back, however, to repeat that a mechanism has been set in motion, now at an avalanche, of increased penis. I would like to give an example here of the bill on torture, which we passed last week: in that measure we get to have, by applying the aggravating measures, penalties even up to twenty years, compared to the basic crime which, from this point of view, provides for less serious punishments. I say this because we, in principle, have always distinguished our position by trying to avoid this line of the exponential increase in penalties; for this reason we want to emphasize this point. But this position is not linked only to this measure, but comes as a result of the increases that have been seen and this type of approach that has distinguished the whole judiciary. I would also like to make another point very clearly. Yes, there may be other measures in the Commission, but we will have a chance of doing so. However, I would like to ask what happened to other measures relating to other issues. This measure came to the House but, for example, we drew the public's attention, even last week, to the draft law on homophobia, which has completely disappeared from the radar of this House, and I could also talk about the draft law on the mother's surname for her children. Therefore, there are a number of measures which, although they had nothing to do with the issue of corruption, needed, in my view, to be hesitated with some speed. This also concerns a number of even more urgent issues, such as those related to measures that have been postponed, which were planned to be examined again this week and which have been moved to the next one, such as the preparation of a series of additional instruments for the fight against the mafia and the mafia. Having said that, however, I would not like this measure to be accompanied by an emphasis and also by a political interpretation. I would also like to say to Mr Grasso that these aspects should not be included in the debate on this measure. In other words, there is a risk that this measure may be interpreted by someone as a sort of revenge against the judiciary, almost a contrast between Parliament and the judiciary itself. I do not wish that some of the tones could be used to say that this measure may in some way represent a revanche. I believe that it would be absolutely wrong to present the measure in this way, even by those who insisted on its approval. It is a measure which, in some ways, may have had to be approved, but which I do not think should become a flag or an instrument of aggression against another power of the State. Alas we regret - in reconfirming the assessments we made at the beginning - that this bill arrives at a significant increase in the penalties, absolutely in the wake unfortunately with the trend that has been in recent times. On the phenomenon of corruption and on all the damage it causes to our country we can also agree; but unfortunately this cultural and legal footprint has extended a bit to everything. Someone mentioned the traffic homicide, but I could quote a lot of other cases. Having said that and made explicit our reservations, as Senators of the Italian Left we will not fail to vote in favour, despite the reservations that we wanted them to remain in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u58	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I will say a few words to accompany the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour to the draft law under consideration. We are certainly alien to any ideological view that this bill would be characterised by a punitive or preventive will towards certain categories of legal practitioners, such as magistrates, lawyers or administrative staff of the judicial offices. But there is no doubt that we can only share the fact that the greatest social disvalue of the corruptive phenomenon in its various explanations is achieved precisely when this is put in place by those who are in those offices and in those rooms where justice is administered and where corruption must be fought: this betrays a moral, legal and civil commitment and must be severely sanctioned, even more severely than the normal citizen. We can only agree on this, precisely we political force that to legality we make a continuous call and - let us agree - even twenty-four hours after having remembered the memory of a judge killed by different powers, but still moving in the worst part of this country. On the corruptive phenomenon, on how serious it is and how much it is to defeat I will not spend a single word, because now, after years we are here, we risk talking to each other. I would add nothing more than a brief remark, Mr President: we knew and had the well-founded suspicion that our amendments could be of dubious legitimacy and admissibility. But we have presented them the same, in order to have the opportunity to recall here what my colleague Cappelletti has already recalled, that is, the fact that the effective fight against corruption must be done not only with these measures that we are voting on today and which affect in a totally residual way in the context of the overall phenomenon, but also giving the investigative forces and the judiciary the tools to be able to bring out the corruptive phenomenon. We know, in fact, that the problem that leads to the prescription of many crimes is not only the inefficiency of the machinery of justice, but also the objective fact that certain conducts are discovered years after the facts. Even if the prescription did not operate at all, we would not be happy if a sentence of condemnation, and all the more one of absolution, arrived at a very long time. We would like the sentences of condemnation or absolution - this must be clear - to arrive as soon as possible, even when we hope that the limitation, at the present state of our judicial system, will at least stop with the judgment at first instance. Returning to what I was saying, we cannot but agree on the social disvalue of the crimes of concussion, undue induction, muffled credit and trafficking of illicit influences, and we cannot but agree that the sanction should be more punitive if committed by certain categories of people. Just as, in the case of corruption for judicial acts, which already punishes the public official who favours a procedural part, we believe that the corruptor must also be responsible and must be punished more severely if that corruptor, that is the active part of the corruptive relationship, is himself a magistrate, lawyer or member of the administrative staff of the judicial offices. What we want to say is that the desired measures, the result of those amendments which we have tabled and which we have declared impossible, such as the undercover agent (which - let us remember - is also provided for by a UN Convention of 2000 which Italy has signed and which calls on the Member States to put undercover operations in place also to combat the corruption phenomenon), the extension of the so-called Daspo for politicians (the ban and incandidability extended to the current discipline) or whistleblowing, that is, all those legislative initiatives that could really help the emergence of the corrupting phenomenon would probably have a greater impact on the same courtrooms than this bill does. Finally, I like to make a call, because I had the impression that it was a lot of karma coming back to this House decades later: Senator Palma first invited all of us to make a step back in the past twenty years and actually, making this time leap in the matter of corruption in judicial acts, comes to mind precisely the well-known story that has seen Judge Metta corrupted by lawyer Previti, along with his Pacific colleagues and Acampora, when Berlusconi, the founder of the same party in which President Palma still acts, basically bought that judgment favorable to him with reference to Mondadori. So, almost for some kind of cosmic karma, now we can only be satisfied that this legislative initiative bears the first signature of a representative of that party who, by jumping back twenty years, banged in the face of the Italians one of the many shames - perhaps not even the most serious - with which politics managed to express itself and in the worst way. This has happened in the most sick relations with that part of the judiciary, which should not be idealized in heroic tones - because we know that the good and the bad exist in every social sector - but must be put in the condition of working properly and doing his job well. Some of these conditions are those which we have indicated in the amendments, which are then declared unacceptable, which we have had the pleasure of re-presenting in order to have at least the taste to talk about them again. Therefore, I declare the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour, in the hope that this measure will not be spent as a further success of the majority and the government in the fight against corruption. Corruption must be fought by other means and by other initiatives. We cannot, however, say no to this measure and we will vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u61	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank President Grasso for having been in Palermo all day yesterday to take part in the various events. Thanksgiving is because - I take the occasion of the discussion of this bill also in consideration of what I will say shortly - yesterday was there to reaffirm the principle of legality in our country. We have already commemorated John Falcone on several occasions - as the UN will shortly do - but perhaps we should seize the opportunity of a debate in this House on his ideas and what Falcone said about the independence and autonomy of the judiciary in the field of trial. Having said that, I must say that the prevailing provincialism of the debate in our country has proved to be today, because it has focused its attention as if this measure had the objective of striking the eventual magistrate who committed these crimes. Perhaps you do not know that, thank God, there is not an appreciable number of magistrates in our country who have committed such crimes; I would like to explain why this provision is then, and also why, Mr President, I thank you for yesterday. You, President, will have participated, like me, in the meetings with the representatives of the States who were part of that body called Greek, which also led to an overall assessment in our country of the tools and rules to combat corruption, but essentially to the need for the affirmation in criminal law of certain values and certain principles. The result of those relations and those meetings in Strasbourg between the Ministers of the Interior and Justice, in which I also participated in good or bad times, was the approval in our country of Law No 190 of 2012 and Law No 69 of 2015 (also the result of a draft law). So there has been a system that - I must say - I did not fully share, and so I agree with Senator De Petris when he criticizes Parliament when it increases the penalties, because I am much more favourable and convinced of the usefulness of the certainty of the penalty. On the other hand, you wanted to approve measures which provided for such striking penalties, but which were, from the point of view of the principles and values that I referred to earlier, unbalanced. One of the lessons to which we refer is that criminal law is such as to give an image of what society must be: if the members of society are punished in a certain way, any citizen, or foreigner, or jurist who had read those laws would have wondered what would be the consequence if such crimes had committed them, hypothetically, someone who should instead be immune for his choice of life and for the oath he took at the beginning of the profession. If you read the measure in this light, it is a reductive reading of Senator Casson: it is not a measure that wants to strike a certain episode, but it wants to give the architrave of our criminal system an image of coherence, of equal rights, of equal responsibilities, of equality in the assessment of behaviour. When there is a diversity, that diversity corresponds to a different assessment. This is the logic of this measure, Senator De Petris, which can in no way be interpreted as a measure against the judiciary or others, because there is awareness, I believe not only in me, but in all of you, that there are - or, if they exist, one in 10,000 - crimes of this kind committed by magistrates or by members of the judicial administration. Do you not realize then that you want to give a correct image of our country and the criminal system? As for the haste with which it would have arrived in this Chamber, it is clear that, as this is a measure that could not be discussed, for the reasons I have just said, it was immediately voted without amendments or anything else. Moreover, it has arrived in this House - I would like to remind you - also thanks to some other setbacks and to the hiccups resulting from budgetary problems. However, it is good that this measure has arrived in this House, because at least we give the possibility of reading our criminal system so as to guarantee the fundamental principles of the Constitution. It's not a crime enforcement problem. To confuse the objective with what you have indicated really means to reduce this provision to something that does not make sense, while instead it has a strong value and a reason: to give a reset to the criminal system, which has been unbalanced with certain penalties. That is why we need this measure. I'll finish. I believe that the vote on the various articles unanimously means only one thing: that everyone has grasped and shared the ratio of this intervention, beyond the instrumental use and whether it is necessary or not. It was necessary if this possibility, this idea, this position of the magistrate and of the judicial operator in general were to be forgotten and therefore this could be the subject of any criticism. That is enough for a rule to be necessary, because when we see that the rule is not complete and that the system allows a breach, it means that there is a need for intervention, and that is why we will vote for this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u64	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption must commit the country, and with it Parliament, with rigour, seriousness and balance. We have often not proven to have all three of these ingredients. We must increasingly convince ourselves that the fight against corruption must be developed with a design dimension which must contain a genuine integrated repressive-judicial approach - yes, of course - and from this point of view Parliament has made progress in this parliamentary term. The preventive aspect is also a dimension of the integrated approach that should not be underestimated at all; a dimension that has grown with the Anti-corruption Agency. Finally in our country this dimension is being discovered, but it also needs to make considerable progress. Social and cultural behaviour cannot be lacking in an integrated approach; it must become the conviction of citizens that corruption is not a shortcut, but a ruin, a damage to themselves and the country. This integrated approach cannot be found in Parliament's instrumental divisions and cannot be delayed or exploited in politics. Colleagues, this provision should not be overrated and should not become an opportunity for clashes or for revenge in society against those engaged in the judicial field (the Democratic Party does not lend itself to this use); nor should it be underestimated or debased. It is a measure that tries to cover a piece that was lacking in the greater organicity that we have begun to produce in the field of the fight against the crimes that are part of the crime of corruption and that concerns the exercise of judicial activities. If you go through the few articles, which make up it, ladies and gentlemen, you will find the constant reference to the exercise of judicial activities that includes all the subjects that are part of these activities: the magistrates, the lawyers, the assistants of the judge, but also all the administrative staff of the judicial offices, as has been well clarified with an amendment of the rapporteur that a few minutes ago we approved unanimously. That is why one cannot abstract a subject and think that this provision can be punitive, for example, towards the magistrates. The exercise of judicial activity is very delicate and must be protected from the insidious and devastating corruptive activity. That is why we shall vote in favour of this measure, knowing that further steps must be taken but freeing it from any attempt which may once again divide Parliament. This is so that we can reach a unanimous vote, as I hope is beyond the reasons that each group represents at this time in this House. In the fight against corruption, in fact, we do so, when we want to become a serious and mature country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ascola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u65	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Via dei Papareschi in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u68	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u69	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Amendments to Articles 317, 319-b, 319-c, 346 and 346-a of the Criminal Code on crimes committed in connection with the exercise of judicial activities (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I see that the draft law has been passed unanimously. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u72	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to yet another labour dispute. I am talking about the Salumificio Spiezia di San Vitaliano di Nola and I am talking, of course, about its workers and their families who have not received a salary for three months and, despite everything, are struggling with all the forces to defend their workplace put in danger for the closure of the company. Mr President, I am talking about 90 workers, 90 people in the flesh, with an average age of 50, with wives and dependent children, not to mention the loans to be paid. I am talking about averting yet another social disaster in the South. I listened to the voices of the workers in a video in which intelligent and feasible proposals were made that will be brought to the meeting at the MISE on Friday. They ask the policy not to be abandoned and be helped not to kill their factory which, if helped, could be saved and they could therefore continue to work. I think that when workers who have not received their wages for three months still defend their jobs, this House should show a little more respect. However, we know how these things are. Mr President, starting with the conclusion, I would like to point out that the right to work is guaranteed by our Constitution. I hope that these workers will receive positive answers next Friday, because they have made truly intelligent proposals that can safeguard 90 jobs, in their own interests and in the interests of their families. I really hope that their demands will be met. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u75	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to speak to this House about the agreement reached in Palermo between Almaviva workers within the company. We're talking about 2,900 people. I have just finished reading the press release, which I would call distressed, of the CGIL on this agreement. In order to save jobs, the trade unions agreed that workers' rights should be reduced, that the payment of salary increases already earned should be eliminated and that further increases should be blocked for one year. Finally, the trade unions agreed that the end-of-relationship (TFR) treatment of these people should be re-evaluated in order to reduce it. In Sicily, the job is something that is not easy to buy, to acquire, or to regain once lost. These people have therefore chosen to save their jobs at all costs. I cannot blame either the unions or the workers who, 80%, have spoken in favour of the agreement. However, I would like to invite this House to reflect. If today it is possible to humiliate the workers in this way (we speak of people who do not reach 1,000 and not even 700 euros per month) it is because politics has made the conscious choice - I am referring above all to the Democratic Party, which is the relative majority party - to let things go as they have to go, with the strongest who impose their own will and the weakest who accept the will of the strongest (in this case, the employers). Some of us may think that we can't do anything different. But it's not like that. If politics decides to lock itself in a dressing room, then it cannot complain that it cannot run the 100 meters. If we give ourselves the rule of allowing the labour market to self-wind and to avoid a conditioning that is due by Constitution, then political responsibility is full and falls on us. It is, above all, full of that part of this House, which is defined as the left wing - I have not understood what it is - and lets that happen. I understand those workers who have agreed to see themselves reduced the emoluments that they had already matured. I repeat, I understand. I do not understand the silence of the political forces that should prevent these things from happening. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u78	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to draw your attention to the difficult condition that has long characterized almost all of the 8,000 Italian school leaders, who have seen the responsibilities associated with their role increase exponentially. Emblematic is what happened to the dean Franca Principe of the Institute "Carlo Pisacane" in Sapri, where he has been doing his job for nine years, improving over time the structure (originally decidedly compromised), the organizational form, the quality of the service, interpreting the needs of a territory certainly not easy and assuming the collective responsibility of about 900 students and more than 100 employees. However, last July 2011 some students of the institute, intent to take the exam of maturity, managed to access a solar pavement, normally inaccessible and not destined for other activities except those of maintenance, left open and unattended by a school collaborator of the institute, although it had been expressly requested by the manager to make that area inaccessible. In this circumstance one of the students fell from the pavement, reporting injuries from which, fortunately, he recovered completely. In the context of the judicial investigation, the school worker responsible for negligence, who obtained early retirement, was not investigated because she was declared unfit for service, while the owner, who was responsible for maintenance, was acquitted. The only one who paid for what happened was the principal, who was also absent that unfortunate day because she was committed to chairing an examination commission at another institution, which was sentenced to one month in prison and to a compensation of 15,000 euros as interim commission. I therefore take this opportunity to recall that objective responsibility related to the role cannot be transformed into guilt, malice or personal lack, and that, therefore, Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 must be absolutely amended. It is not acceptable for school managers to pay for the non-compliance of other bodies or other professional entities. I conclude by expressing my solidarity with Franca Principe and this professional category which he will rightly protest tomorrow by demonstrating here in Rome. [[Applause from Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u81	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I rise to ask the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to reply to Question 3-03645 on the issue of four workers employed, until mid-September 2016, at Fincantieri SpA in Monfalcone and dismissed because of a suspension of work outside the period allowed during the night between 14 and 15 September 2016. After the dismissal, the four workers turned to the labour court which, finding that there had been no recurrence against them, since there were no written indications as to the place of the work break in a given time slot, and that Fincantieri itself had admitted that a flexibility in the break time was possible, had ordered the immediate reinstatement of the workers, in full application of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute in the most recent version. It is a fact that this has not yet happened. On the contrary, the company has announced to propose opposition in all the locations, accusing the dismissed workers of having carried out a risky course for themselves and for others and has decided not to follow up the physical reintegration at the workplace of the four workers, forbidding them from working, limiting themselves to the formal reintegration into the staff and the payment - yes - of the salary, arrears, previous provisions and insurances. I ask the Minister to respond quickly to the question that is taking paradoxical connotations at work, as a law and principle; in this particular case the salary would not be the natural consequence of a work benefit, but a mere formal fulfilment imposed by an order issued by the judge, which must therefore be respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u82	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-829.ana.u83	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 25 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.39.
