ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u6	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, last night Mr Reichlin disappeared and I would like to say a few words to remind the whole House of this because with him one of the founding fathers of the Republic, who served his country and helped the new generations in their intellect and morality, disappeared. It was one of the last Italians who made the history of Italy: from the Resistance, fought as a young communist, to the birth of democracy; from the long and tiring journey of the post-war period to the fight against red terrorism and black stragism; from the Republic's affirmation to the entry into Europe. In all these appointments Alfredo Reichlin was there, and he was the protagonist. Before I became friends with him, I was lucky enough to meet him and meet him when I was still a boy at the end of the 1950s. I was a fellow student of his brother Andrea and attended their home in Rome, in via Alessandria. For Andrea and for me, who were students of the gymnasium, Alfredo was a mythical figure, who appeared and disappeared from our sight, always surrounded by a golden aura that we intuited of high politics, already then done together of action and thought, of social commitment and parliamentary struggle. He was one of the builders of the Italian Communist Party and believed in its diversity, accompanying its history up to the PDS, the DS and the founding of the Democratic Party, which has seen its birth and growth. How many times have I discussed with Alfredo Reichlin on the left and center-left. How many times have I heard from him lessons made of thought, because he was always looking for a new and winning political idea, and realism because he never lost sight of the relationships of strength and the condition of the political system. He was not only a strong political warrior, who never strayed from the struggle in Parliament and the country for the protection of the weakest and the last, but he was also a great man of political thought, who believed in the value of the great ideal currents of the last century and knew how to get to the bottom of the problems with a long view and cultural richness. Politically he was a representative of the people, but culturally and in thought he was an aristocratic spirit. Politico all round, it had a cultural depth of which in our country there are few traces left, even in Parliament. He loved theatre, cinema, literature and even poetry. His presence at the Unity, which he had directed with great success, constant to the end, and his indomitable passion for politics have done a great good not only to the left and to the center-left Italians, but to our country. In recent months he showed a deep disappointment for the crisis of the entire Italian political system. I can say that I saw him desperate for the decline of Italian politics, as evidenced by his last cry: We do not leave the left under the rubble! He dreamed of a strong left, certainly for the numbers, but first for his ideas and for the thought, with a great vision of the future of the country and the world. He despised the piccinerie and our lingering on our personal affairs. When he spoke of politics he never thought only of the relationship of strength between the different parts of the party, nor did he have tactical prudences. He always concluded by saying: "It takes ideas, it takes thought." He hated sectarianism, populism, demagogy and their attempt to hegemony in Italian and European politics and culture. I think he suffered a lot from the conflicts within the Democratic Party, especially because more than all of us were able to see the long-term consequences. We can say that he tried to change Italy, trying to lead the left by discussing with his friends and comrades even when he was no longer in Parliament and had no political office, but he continued to enjoy an extraordinary credit for the lucidity of the analysis and the breadth of the vision. Alfredo Reichlin's death is for many of us the disappearance of a true friend and it is for Italy as a whole the loss of a great political leader and a great protagonist of the social struggles of our country. Those who care about the future of Italy must reflect. It weighs on our present and on our future the great distance that, in terms of cultural depth, social sensitivity, breadth of vision, separates personalities like that of Alfredo Reichlin from the new political ruling class, of which I, like all of us, belong. Political passion and culture guided his daily action. In our discussions, whenever we left the field of ideas to end up in the details of political policy, it was inflamed and lost its temper, it could not stand that politics did not know how to see the great fundamental issues. Passionate and scholar of economics, Alfredo Reichlin is one of the great leaders of the PCI who understood the need for the party to deal with the market, with the rules of the contemporary economy, with the financial power, with the international industrial system. His stories of the meetings between him, the head of the PCI, and Cuccia, in those years were illuminating, the first defender of Italian capitalism. He thought that Italian politics had gone into crisis because he had not understood in time the needs of change, because he did not know how to adapt to the changed conditions of the country, Europe and the world. In Alfredo Reichlin, two points of view seemed to contradict each other. For one verse he was a strictly realistic politician, aware of the relationships of strength and respectful of the needs that every day, at all levels condition our action; but for another verse he thought incessantly about how to change reality, how to grow the quality of politics, how to put a renewed thought into the stagnant Italian condition. However, if I have to say if he was more realistic or more dreamer, I say that he was more dreamer, and he did well because without the ideal ambition, without the desire for change, without the dream of Reichlin, Italy will never make it. If we believe in democracy and want it strong, we must continue to listen to it even after it has disappeared, so as not to forget its lesson, always bearing in mind the values that it has taught us. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u9	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic and Progressive Party, join in the memory of Alfredo Reichlin, Comrade Alfredo. The trajectory of his life, laborious and fruitful, is intertwined with that of republican history: from the anti-fascist choice to the struggle in the Resistance; from the constituent reconstruction and post-war to the construction of the Togliatti New Party; from the commitment in the Berlinguer PCI to the experiences in the Left Democrats, in the Left Democratic Party and in the Democratic Party, of which he was among the founders and, ultimately, to the needy sympathy with which he looked at the birth of our movement. His life is interwoven above all, therefore, with the history of the Italian left and has been spent alongside the workers and in defense of the weakest, starting with those Apulian peasants who discovered in the fifties, with the hat in hand and accustomed to bowing the head, and to whom he succeeded, along with many others, to give ransom and dignity. As a political decision-maker - he loved to define himself - and as a political humanist to him goes our respectful homage. Lives like his, with the high awareness of the problems that democracies are going through today because of the domination of financial turbulent capitalism, the crisis everywhere of democratic representation, the troubles of Italian unity and the problem and the issue of the South, must be an example and a warning for this Parliament and for so many citizens outside of here who live this time moved and uncertain. Of Alfredo Reichlin I want to remember the lucidity, the demanding trait that did not make discounts and the inexhaustible curiosity that was the dominant aspect of that personality for those who were lucky enough to know him. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Mixed SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u12	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am not going to repeat, sharing deeply with you, what Mr Zanda and Senator Gotor have just said. I add, on behalf of the Italian Left, only a few considerations related also to my personal experiences, those of a generation facing the political battle - because this was what it was called, with the high sense of respect for this term - and who saw, for us young and very young, a great teacher in Alfredo Reichlin: a teacher who never allowed to find shortcuts, because he was part of a school of long thoughts. Today some superficial commentator, but perhaps very fashionable, might misunderstanding them with slow thoughts. They were far from this: they were able to speak, for example, at the very core of a city that with its thousand contradictions was transforming profoundly, as is the capital of our country, of which he led the list at the elections in which he had set himself to free Rome: it was not 1945, but it was the Rome of the palazzinari. We were defeated politically, but not bent, not trampled on. Those long thoughts took root and allowed not only to win the next election but to reopen a deep game with the thousand folds of which that city was and is characterized. I believe that his never-trivial intelligence has been fundamental, that he gives us an inexhaustible legacy. A curious anecdote is that of the thousand ways in which his foreign surname was pronounced in the hamlets of Rome, but also the thousand ways and depth for which Alfredo Reichlin was known and recognized by the totality of the Roman hamlets, like no other leader or intellectual (because it was also this). That's all I'm gonna say. We young people were really dwarves on the shoulders of giants, in this city and in the country. One of these giants disappears and we are perhaps not ready, given the smallness that often characterizes the confrontation and political battle (in the high and non-violent sense of the term). We should really find in this inexhaustible legacy the reasons for truly honoring a figure like that of Comrade Alfredo Reichlin. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL, PD and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u15	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, our Group too, from a different point of view and political militancy, joins with emotion the words of my previous colleagues. This morning, I heard the news of Alfredo Reichlin's disappearance, I wondered how and how Alfredo Reichlin belongs to the history of Italy and how and how much of the history of the left. I must say that, while not militating on the left, I tend to think that Alfredo Reichlin belongs to the history of Italy. Alfredo Reichlin was above all an extraordinary journalist: of course, a journalism all inscribed in the history of communism, first, and then the Democratic Party. I remember some of his beautiful books: the first, about twenty years ago I think was called "The Silence of the Communists," published by Einaudi. There were two great personalities who were no longer there: one is a woman, Miriam Mafai, a great journalist and communist, the other was Vittorio Foa, who perhaps had in common with Alfredo Reichlin a certain sympathy and a certain openness to a world that had been shareholder. Philosopher very often open and available to actionism, precisely, but not to liberalism. Moreover, very appropriately, Mr Zanda recalled his relationship with Cuccia, and I could add his relationship with Scalfari and Berlinguer, his looking with some interest and passion at capitalism, but always closed to liberalism. This morning, remembering him on the "Corriere della Sera", Paolo Franchi proudly evokes his own youth article delivered in the early seventies to the then director of "Rinascita", Reichlin, who in the seventies appeared - and not only because he directed "Rinascita" - and still appears today in Franchi one of the greats of communism, one of the real Togliattiani. In communist journalism, Alfredo Reichlin had experienced the tragedy and humiliation of being removed from the direction of the Unity when Togliatti was still alive, in 1963, when perhaps Reichlin had exaggerated in ingraism and had felt tossed by that competition that was announced between ingraians and Amendolians. The humiliation was that in 1963, in his place, the director of the Unity had become Mario Alicata, one of the spear irons of the Amendolia component. After all, it was perhaps for this reason that Reichlin did not feel it, in the period 1968-1969, to follow his followers of all time, his friend Pintor, his companion of many years of life, Luciana Castellina, in the adventure of the "Manifesto". He chose to stay in the old Togliatto house, to remain by the side (and still be valued) of Berlinguer. He's been very bitter lately. It's not up to me, because it would be in bad taste, to evoke how bad the disssionist drift had done to him. I remember, however, his last article, which should be a testamentary, titled "We do not leave the left under the rubble." Even those who are not left-wing, but are fond of the history of Italy, believe that the history of Italy - both for those who came from communism and for those who came from the most confused anti-communism - is a story of parliamentaryism. Last Thursday, we were wrong to indulge in some sort of anti-parliamentaryism, more or less annoying. Precisely because of the respect that we owe to this last warning of a man like Reichlin (we do not leave the left under the rubble), I believe that parliamentaryism must always be our point of reference. On the basis of these sentiments, Mr President, we join in the pain of your loved ones and of this House. [[Applause from the CoR, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u16	Greeting on behalf of the Assembly students, teachers and companions of the Liceo Ginnasio "Giovanni Verga" of Adrano, in the province of Catania, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u17	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u18	Mr President, the Government wishes to associate itself with the remarks of remembrance and condolences in memory of Alfredo Reichlin and wishes to offer the most heartfelt condolences from the entire Government to its family members. I would like to add a very small personal memory: I met Alfredo Reichlin, a man who has crossed the history of the Republic, from the Resistance to today, never being anything but a son of his time, in the sense of being fully involved in flowing, changing, changing the history of Italy, supported by a high idea of politics, as President Zanda recalled. A figure of political intellectual hardly traceable in Italian political history. A character to which we all owe something, regardless of political position. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u19	On my behalf, and of the whole Senate, I associate myself with the mourning and pain of the relatives, friends and companions. I invite the Senate to observe a minute's silence in memory of Alfredo Reichlin. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u22	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I know that at this moment, with the celebrations taking place over the 60 years since the signing of the Treaties of Rome and the events taking place in London, my speech on the issue of pensions and vitality on the basis of what is happening in the House of Members may seem absurd. I would ask you, however, as President of the Senate to convene a Presidency Council as a matter of urgency, because it is absurd for the House of Members to discuss a proposal for a resolution on pensions and vitalities, which concerns all Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u23	Senator Bottici, as you know, this topic is not on the agenda. If necessary, you will be able to make an end-of-session speech on this matter. Thank you, however, for your attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u24	I know that very well, and that is why I would ask you to arrange this summons immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2705. The rapporteurs, Mr Cucca and Mr Mancuso, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u26	Mr President, I would ask you to suspend the sitting briefly in order to be able to tidy up all the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u27	I welcome your request and therefore briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.10 p.m.) The session is resumed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u28	Mr President, we are here for the conversion into law of an extremely important and highly awaited decree-law, given the urgency of providing for a matter that is truly felt by several parties and by the whole country, that concerning the phenomenon of immigration, which is growing from day to day. The decree-law in question contains urgent provisions to ensure that international protection proceedings are speeded up, as well as to combat illegal immigration. This is an issue which has been discussed for a very long time and strongly felt, with different orientations depending on the political forces that face these problems, from the whole nation. I will deal only with the part that concerns justice and, in particular, with Articles 1 to 5, which are the most important in relation to the content of the decree-law, very complex and articulated. The Commission has had a very troubled path, precisely in view of the complexity of the issues dealt with within it. However, I must say that the debate in the Commission has been extremely intense, but also serene and open to confrontation with opposition. In this regard, there is an obligation to thank for the attitude of the oppositions, who have made a very important contribution to solving the main problems of this decree-law. The main issues that I will be talking about shortly have been addressed, as I said, with the help of everyone and, in some ways, with the consent of all political forces, at least in the main framework of the text. The decree-law is made up of two parts, the first of which - Articles 1 to 5 - falls under the direct competence of the Commission Justice (but also in other parts, until Article 22, justice is involved). In detail, Article 1 provides for the establishment in certain courts of the specialised sections on migration, international protection and free movement of citizens of the European Union. This has been one of the issues that have been more difficult to deal with and which have also extended the working time in the Commission. Initially, in fact, the text provided that there were 14 sections located throughout Italy; numerous hearings were held, we heard many representatives of the associations and the judiciary and from several parts it was proposed the need to expand the list of the seats of these sections, bringing them to a number corresponding to that of the offices of appeal court in Italy, then to 26. It has been a very debated subject and has also slowed down the Commission's work a lot, because much of the content of other articles depended on the adoption of Article 1, so, by suspending Article 1, we have had to suspend the examination of many other articles as well. Article 2 provides for the training of magistrates who wish to acquire a particular specialization in the matter covered by the measure. In fact, Article 1 provides that judges who are assigned to the sections - be careful, not exclusively, because, although they are assigned to the sections, they can also carry out other activities and this is an extremely important fact to bear in mind - must acquire specialization through special courses organized by the High School of the judiciary, in collaboration with the European Asylum Support Office and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. These courses include specific sessions dedicated to the evaluation of the tests, including the techniques for conducting the interview. The provision also provides for certain requirements which are considered preferential for the purpose of allocating to the sections. The knowledge of the English language is also positively evaluated. This was originally provided for in the text; as a result of the work in the Commission, knowledge of French has also been added as a preferential title for an easily intuitable reason: French and English are the languages mainly spoken by immigrants. Their knowledge allows for a more direct relationship between those who will have to interrogate and examine these people and those concerned themselves. In addition, in order to ensure the continuous training of section magistrates, it was provided that, in the three years following the assignment to the section, judges should participate, at least once a year, in vocational training sessions. In the following years, however, they are obliged to take part, at least once every two years, in vocational refresher courses. From this it is evident the great attention that the Government has wanted to devote to this category of magistrates who have to deal with a sensitive matter. Predicting an extremely high level of specialization also allows us to predict that these sections will have judges of particularly high competences who will be able to face the problems that in everyday life are presenting themselves today in the relationship with immigrants. The fundamental aspects were dealt with by the Commissions 1a and 2a together, trying to find a solution to the four issues that arose in the course of the debate. In particular, the first node was the number of seats, while the second great theme was the audience of the magistrate after the first interview that is held in the territorial commissions. The problem has been resolved following a great confrontation with the oppositions and it has been decided that the judge can not only always arrange the hearing to listen to the interested person as was already provided in the original text of the decree-law, but also, in particular cases, actually arrange the hearing. I will come back to this later, if there is time, in order to identify specifically the solution adopted. (The sitting was suspended at 5.19 p.m. and resumed at 5.19 p.m.) By proceeding with the examination of the Article, Article 3 identifies competence by subject matter. It should be noted that jurisdiction for migratory proceedings falling within the ordinary jurisdiction and within the jurisdiction of the court is centralized in the specialised sections, without affecting the division between the ordinary and the administrative jurisdiction and the competence of the peace judge. The situation remains the same as the previous one. The specialised sections will be responsible for disputes concerning the non-recognition of the right of residence in favour of citizens of the European Union and their family members, disputes concerning the expulsion of citizens of the European Union and their family members and disputes concerning the recognition of international protection, proceedings for the validation of the measure by which the quaestor provides for the detention or extension of detention of the applicant for international protection, disputes concerning the recognition of humanitarian protection, disputes concerning the denial of nullity to family reunification and residence permit for family reasons, as well as for other measures of the administrative authority relating to the right to family unity. The Chambers shall also have jurisdiction in disputes concerning the determination of the status of stateless person and in cases and proceedings which present reasons for connection with those referred to above. Of undoubted importance for the Commission justice is then what provided for in article 6, paragraph 1, letter g), in the part in which it rewrites the discipline of disputes in the matter of recognition of international protection, thus inserting in the legislative decree n. 25 of 2008 the new text of article 35-a. These disputes, pursuant to Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 150 of 2011, repealed by Article 7 of the Decree-Law, were decided with summary knowledge rite. The decree-law instead provides that for such disputes the chamber ritual applies to written contradictory and to eventual hearing. As I said, the problem of the possibility of the hearing has been overcome by identifying a number of cases and particular conditions in which the judge must always assess when the hearing should be held. Another major issue to be addressed was that of the collegiality of the judge who must go to examine immigrants. This issue too, after a very long debate, has been resolved by providing in some circumstances for the collegiality of the judge. The fourth and final subject, which has provided a lot of ideas for discussion and which has been resolved today, has been the protection of registrations. First of all, it must be pointed out that, once the procedure is opened, the immigrant must be subjected to a prior interview; Before going to the judge, he must go to perform a preventive interview which should be videotaped. We have raised the issue of protecting the privacy of those who do not intend to submit to the video for reasons of security, privacy or for any other reason that might affect, in some way, their security. It was then decided to allow, where there are such problems or in any case the person concerned to believe that there are, to request, with a reasoned request, that video recording be avoided. Of course, in the event of such an application being accepted, it will proceed without the video recording, it being understood that, then, the judge who will subsequently have to assess will be able and will have to arrange the appearance of the person concerned, remembering that the protection of privacy and security reasons are insured in consideration of the type of hearing, being a chamber hearing and therefore private and therefore the person concerned would not have any problems in this respect. Article 7, as a result of the establishment of the new specialised sections, introduces changes of coordination to Legislative Decree No 150 of 2011, by which civil proceedings of cognition were reduced and simplified, devolving, in general, to the summary rite of cognition all disputes in the matter of immigration. Finally, Article 11 provides that the Supreme Council of the judiciary is to have an extraordinary plan of extra-district applications. There have also been a number of discussions in the Commission on this issue. As I said, the debate has been very close and has had extremely harsh tones. In the area of justice, significant amending proposals were adopted to amend the provisions on immigration. In detail, as already mentioned, the Joint Commissions approved amendment 110000 (Text 2), bringing the number of seats from 14 to 26 (in essence, one for each existing appeal court). Since the objection that this phenomenon is not felt in certain courts of appeal was raised, it was considered that setting up the specialised section means not to move the magistrates from a service that they are already performing and that they will continue to carry out, but that, in case it is necessary, for whatever reason, to address the problem in that court of appeal, the section will still exist. The amendment has, moreover, had a particularly troubled process, given that the Budget Commission has made a number of points, which have been overcome by the presentation of a different wording. As regards the competence of the sections, the Commissions then adopted several amendments conferring jurisdiction on those sections for disputes relating to the appeal of measures taken by the authority responsible for determining the State responsible for examining the application for international protection. In this way, it has been envisaged that, in respect of such disputes and those relating to the recognition of international protection, the specialised sections will judge in collegiate composition, as I said earlier. The college then decides in the chamber of the council on the substance of the dispute when it considers that no further instruction is necessary; where it is requested, the college shall examine the case file on the particular case, with all actions deemed necessary for a thorough knowledge of the issues. Punctual provisions have been introduced with regard to the procedure laid down for disputes concerning the appeal of transfer measures adopted by the authority in respect of applications for international protection. Following the adoption of the amendment proposal 3.17 (text 2), the competence of the sections has also been extended to disputes concerning the assessment of Italian citizenship. The application of the summary rite of cognition, which has a particularly significant legal significance, is also envisaged for such disputes and has been the subject of numerous discussions. In fact, several parties called for greater specification of the summary rite of cognition, which, however, objectively, is largely regulated by the code. It was therefore considered not to have access to specifications which would have further weighed down a text as a whole. The Commissions also intervened on Article 2 of the Decree-Law, providing, as mentioned above, that knowledge not only of the English language, but also of the French language, as a sort of preferential title, should be positively assessed. The Commissions also intervened in the proceedings relating to the dispute concerning international protection with reference, as I said at the request of the hearing. Amendment 6,4000 (Text 3) amended paragraph 11 of Article 6, providing that, in addition to the case where the court considers it necessary and appropriate, for the purpose of deciding, to fix the hearing, it must be fixed when at least one of the following assumptions is used: the video recording made at the previous stage is not available for any reason (the person concerned refused, the equipment was defective, the video recording was destroyed following any accident); the person concerned made a reasoned request in the application and the judge, on the basis of the grounds set out by the applicant, considers that the proceedings at the hearing essential for the purposes of the decision are being dealt with; the appeal is based on factual elements not deducted in the course of the administrative procedure at first instance. In the course of the debate it emerged that in some cases there was no appeal, or rather the degree of appeal, but only the recorribilità per Cassazione and it was expected that this could very much implement the number of appeals per Cassazione. Someone expressed the fear that the Supreme Court would remain infiltrated with these proceedings and would not be in a position to deal with the supposedly high number of appeals, which is why it was decided to place stakes in order to avoid a free appeal or for some groundless verse to the Court of Cassation where there are no serious reasons to support the appeal itself. In this sense, in pursuit of a deflated effectiveness of the rule, it has been stated that the proxy to the quarrels for the proposition of the appeal for Cassation must be conferred, under penalty of inadmissibility of the appeal, on the date following the communication of the decree which is intended to challenge. In the generality of the cases, in fact, it happens that, once conferred the proxy, it remains for all the degrees of judgment. In the present case, it was considered more useful for the proxy to be conferred only later, with due consideration, in order to prevent unfounded appeals from being brought solely with dilatory effects. In order to avoid this problem, the lawyer is also required to certify the date of issue in his favour of the prosecutor. Mr President, Mr Mancuso will continue the report in detail and complete. I would just like to express my thanks to all my fellow Members who, after a close debate, sometimes even in very harsh tones, on the main issues, those which really characterize the whole measure and which have been the subject of the harshest debate, have managed to make a very concrete contribution. The majority have found solutions which, in my opinion, have greatly improved the original text. Finally, I should like to thank the officials who were always present in the Commission's work, Mr Goracci of the 1st Commission, Mr Cavallucci, Mr Smurra and Dr Annecchiarico, and I think I should also mention them. I apologise if I do not know the names of the other officials of the 1st Commission, who also took part, but I should like to thank them all because the contribution made to the work of the Commissions meeting was, in my opinion, crucial in order to bring the result to fruition this evening before the House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u29	I inform you that the amendments adopted in the Commission have been forwarded to the Groups. As stated yesterday by the Conference of Leaders, the one-hour deadline for submitting any sub-amendments to them begins now. I call the rapporteur, Senator Mancuso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u30	Mr President, I started from where Mr Cucca concluded, that is to say thanks, which I would also like to extend to the Government, which has ensured a constant presence within the Commission in the persons of the Under-Secretary of State, Mr Chiavaroli and Mr Finocchiaro. I would also like to thank the Presidents of D'Ascola and Mr Torrisi who have been instrumental in managing a Commission room, sometimes even a bit conflicting, if not explosive. CRIMI (M5S). That's not fair! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go ahead, Senator Mancuso. Mr Mancuso, rapporteur. Clearly, I would like to thank my colleagues in the opposition who, thanks to their constructive and responsible attitude, have helped to improve a text that has certainly been given birth in a difficult way. It is a difficult text because it is dictated by the emergency, by this devastating phenomenon that required measures, in this case the decree-law which, precisely because it was necessary, indispensable and urgent, brought with it weaknesses and criticalities that have been corrected in the Commission with assiduous, demanding, tiring and stringent work. Thanks must also be extended to the Presidency, because, as you know, Mr President, initially the measure under consideration was assigned to the Commission Justice, which probably alone would have been faster, but I believe that the contribution of the 1st Commission, which in these cases has undoubtedly undeniable powers, has been decisive in hesitating a measure that I consider to be valid, despite the weaknesses that it can carry with it. With regard to the powers of the first Commission, which I represent, and entering into the substance of the articles, I refer to Article 6, which contains a number of amendments, novelties of previous rules and which concerns notifications and personal interviews with regard to the procedure for the recognition of international protection. As has been said, the aim of the news is to promote speed, certainty of the notification system and to facilitate the conduct of the talks, using video recording, the use of which - as rapporteur Cucca said - has been partially modified thanks to the suggestions of the opposition. In addition, the rules are amended if the application for international protection is rejected. This amendment entails an obligation for the applicant to leave the national territory, with the exception of an appeal before the ordinary judicial authority. The dispute which in this case begins takes the form no more of the summary rite of cognition, but of a chamber rite of written contradictory and at any hearing, a possibility which, as the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, has undergone a modification to the greater protection of the applicant for asylum. Finally, this Article provides that the filing of measures, acts of part and documents relating to the same proceedings must be carried out only by electronic means. Article 7 introduces amendments to the coordination of Legislative Decree No. 150 of 2011, devolvendo in general to the summary rite of cognition all disputes in migratory matters. Article 8 provides that the applicant for international protection, pending the execution of a refusal order, shall be held in the centre where it is hosted where there are reasonable grounds to believe that the application has been lodged only in order to delay or prevent the execution of the refusal. In addition, the participation of the asylum seeker in the procedures for the validation of detention measures in detention centres for return is expected to take place through an audiovisual link. Finally, prospects for the use of applicants for international protection on a voluntary basis are introduced in activities of social benefit to local communities. The other actors involved in these projects are the prefect, the municipalities and organizations in the third sector (voluntary associations, etc.). Article 9 lays down provisions for the transposition of the Annotations Framework. Article 10 gives jurisdiction in the validation of expulsion measures for citizens of the European Union and their family members to the court of the specialised immigration sections. In addition, it is expected that, when the person concerned is detained in an identification and expulsion centre, his participation in the validation hearing shall, where possible, be carried out remotely by means of an audiovisual link. Article 11 gives the Supreme Council of the judiciary the task of drawing up an extraordinary extra-district mobility plan for the allocation of more judges to sections specialising in immigration matters. Article 12 lays down provisions to strengthen administrative bodies examining applications for international protection through the recruitment of highly qualified staff to be employed in territorial commissions for the recognition of international protection and the National Committee on the Right of Asylum. Article 13 provides for the recruitment of legal-pedagogical, social service and cultural mediator officials to support educational interventions, as well as work placement programmes. Article 14 increases the quota of local staff of diplomatic and consular posts on the African continent to strengthen the diplomatic and consular network in relation to the increased needs arising from the immigration emergency. Article 15 provides that the decision to include in the Schengen Information System an alert made in order to refuse entry into the national territory of a foreign national for the suspicion that he has committed a serious crime or intends to commit it in the territory of a Member State of the European Union shall be the responsibility of the Director of the Central Directorate of the Police Prevention of the Ministry of Interior. Article 16 provides for a new abbreviated ritual for the definition of the appeal against expulsion measures for reasons of public policy and national security and for the prevention of terrorism. Article 17 lays down provisions for the identification of irregular foreign nationals found on national territory or rescued in the course of rescue operations at sea. Specifically, it is expected that the foreigner will be taken to specific points of crisis at the centres of first reception and that here he will be subjected to phototyposcopic and signal detection. At the same time, the foreigner receives information on international protection procedures, on the relocation programme in other Member States of the European Union and on the possibility of recourse to assisted voluntary return. The repeated refusal of the foreigner to submit to the photo-typoscopic and signaling detection constitutes a risk of escape and may justify the adoption of the detention measure at a detention centre for returnees. Article 18, in order to ensure the IT management of administrative procedures on irregular entrances and stays, achieving a greater sharing of information related to each foreigner, provides for the interconnection of the automated information system of the Department of Public Security with the databases of the police forces and with the system for the management of reception, established at the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration of the Ministry of the Interior. Article 19 aims to ensure the effectiveness of expulsion measures and the maximum period of stay. The novelty of the measure is that CIEs are transformed into detention centres for return. This is not just a change of name, because changes have also been made in the organisation of these centres in favour of better control, greater respect and organisation of work to make the identification, control and repatriation activity more fluid. Article 20 provides that the Government shall report to Parliament for the first three years after the entry into force of the decree-law on the state of implementation of the new rules. Article 21 modulates the application of the provisions of the Decree-Law so that they do not affect ongoing administrative and judicial proceedings and there is room for administrations to equip themselves. These are the articles within the competence of the first Commission. It seems to me that the illustration of the measure has been complete and that Senator Cucca has already explained the issues discussed and open to confrontation with the oppositions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u31	I greet professors and students of the Institute of Higher Education Monsignor Antonio Bello in Molfetta, in the province of Bari, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u32	I declare that two questions have been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u33	Mr President, I believe that never, like this time, is the preliminary ruling that we are presenting so appropriate to the degree of inconstitutionality that we consider to be present within the decree-law in question. And I would like to point out that I have a certain certainty - I am saying this on purpose, strengthening it - that it will not take much time to see many parts of this decree-law - alas, given all the time we have lost - declared illegitimate by our Constitutional Court. And I believe that the echoes will also be in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR). I shall proceed by order, Mr President. Meanwhile I start from the choice to use the decree-law. From this point of view, here we can discuss for a long time whether immigration can once again be considered and treated only as an emergency phenomenon and use the decree-law, and therefore the presupposition of urgency, to issue some provisions. We always say and say that this is now a phenomenon that may have higher or lower peaks, but it is structural. The sooner we understand it, the sooner we put ourselves in the head that it is and that we will deal with it for many years - perhaps it will concern not only our children, but also our grandchildren - and the better for everyone. And it is better for the ability to put in place real instruments of governance of the phenomenon, which certainly concerns Italy, but also and above all Europe. In the light of the principles set out in our Constitution, it is clear that the instruments of government must all be geared towards respect for fundamental rights. And I am not speaking in a general way - I often hear rhetorical words about the spirit of solidarity and acceptance, which often, in the test of facts, are empty - but I am referring to respect for our constitutional principles and values. The decree-law under consideration once again uses an instrument that should be linked to conditions of necessity and urgency that can, however, be present today, just as they could be yesterday and may be tomorrow. In addition, we choose to operate through this instrument to introduce system changes which - as I said at the beginning of my speech - present very sensitive profiles regarding the safeguarding of constitutional principles and accepted and contained principles within international conventions. You will also see that these rules, once again, will not be able to solve the system problems facing us, particularly with regard to the international protection system. In our opinion, therefore, the lack of the constitutional presupposition of urgency is evident, also because - it is a well-established custom - they are inserted within the decree-law of the provisions that are not immediately applicable such as those - for example - which apply once one hundred and eighty days after the enactment of the decree-law, which - I want to highlight it to the two rapporteurs and the Presidents - are aimed at completely redesigning the judicial protection in the matter of international protection. We therefore refer to a specific and particularly sensitive issue in the area of immigration, but it has a major impact on human rights and people's lives. We are talking, in fact, in most cases, about vulnerable people. On the other hand, with regard to the issue of homogeneity, after all that has happened in the Commission, I could be a long tedious subject for my colleagues. I merely say that, from the point of view of the criterion of homogeneity, we find many defects within the text. In this regard, I note that another completely different matter has been included in the decree-law concerning the Red Cross and its winding-up process. We are, among other things, waiting to know what text 4 of the amendment to this effect will ultimately be, given that the text 3, approved by the majority of the Commissions in the referee, had the opposite opinion from the 5th Budget Commission. Therefore, in our view, not only do we not have the requirements of necessity and urgency, but we cannot even use a decree-law to redesign the profile of judicial protections. One issue that we consider to be a very sensitive issue is that of the sections. I recognise that the rapporteurs have done an important job, so that from 14 at least they have been raised to 26, which is still a result. But the danger of specialty, that is the possible conflict with the explicit constitutional prohibition of the institution of special judges, is not completely excluded. And I say this because this defect, which was also at the beginning of the examination of the decree-law, has not been eliminated even with the work of the Commissions and with the amendments because the whole matter is not transferred to the special sections. We have specialized sections in our courts - we all know that - like that of companies and we now want to set up one for the family. But they're sections by subject. In this case, however, more than one subject, categories of specifically qualified persons are assigned. So, there are very serious constitutional profiles. The second question is that the rite is completely innovated and, meanwhile, a degree of appeal is eliminated. From this point of view, it is clear that we are fully in violation not only of the first paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitutional Charter, but also of Article 111 of our Constitution as regards the right process. I would like to remind you that in our order the double degree of judgment is foreseen for the vast majority of disputes, and also for civil disputes, and often for very low issues. Here, on the other hand, you have eliminated a degree of judgment on persons subjected to serious risks, such as persecution and inhuman treatment, at the risk of freedom and personal safety. We are talking, among other things, about very vulnerable subjects and it is clear that the elimination of a degree of appeal is contrary to a sacrosanct principle of our constitutional order. Another damaging element, always of constitutional principles, is obviously found in the choice to replace the summary rite of cognition with the chamber rite. We have certainly done a job, but I would like to say that the contradiction, even if it has more possibility - an amendment has been adopted - still remains not a mandatory and normal element, in the sense that, however, it is a hypothesis intended but certainly not accepted as a normal element. In addition, we have limited video recording, even in this case, by means of an amendment. From our point of view, having increased the possibility of contradictory, but always remaining residual, video recording becomes even more a fundamental element of proof. From this point of view, we trace very strong elements of unconstitutionality, both of violation of the rules of fair trial and of the principle of contradictory enshrined in Article 11 of the Constitution. Moreover, with the violation of Articles 10 and 24, both asylum and defence rights are violated. We then come to another set of issues relating to the second part of the measure. We note, both for crisis points and for CPRs, violations of constitutional rights, and especially for CIEs (now CPRs) because, despite their failure, there are still procedures for detention and administrative detention. For all these reasons, Mr President, we ask that we do not proceed to the examination of the measure for manifest and substantial inconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u34	He asked Senator Mazzoni to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u35	Mr President, this decree-law also has positive implications, in the sense that the decision to set up specialised sections within the ordinary court on immigration, international protection and free movement is in the right direction, even if it appears to be severely contradictory. The intention to ensure a single jurisdiction specialising in the ordinary judiciary is, in fact, contradicted irrationally by the lack of concentration in the new judge of other jurisdictions concerning such matters, which today remain scattered between the judge of peace, the administrative judge and the ordinary judge. The concentration carried out by the decree-law relating to jurisdiction by territory in only 14 courts reduced, then, the right of foreigners to the proximity of the judge and hinders the activity of defenders from different locations, making the right of defence of the party more difficult. Now, the work of the Commissions has fortunately filled this vulnus, obtaining that in every court that is located in a city seat of court of appeal specialized sections are established. The possibility of holding the hearing for the urgent validation of measures of detention incidents on personal freedom by means of a remote audiovisual link provided for in Articles 8 and 10 of the Decree-Law will prevent the judge from examining the applicant at the place where he is located and from verifying the conditions (often lacking) of reception, forcing the defender to the difficult choice between the presence of the validation next to his assistant or next to the judge who must decide: in each of the two hypotheses the fullness of his function will be compressed, in violation of the right to defence guaranteed by Article 24 of the Constitution. The new rules provided for in the decree-law of the notifications of the decisions of the Commissions in charge of the persons in charge of the reception centres can then lend themselves to dysfunctions and abuses in situations of imperilability or revocation of the reception conditions, which could render the right to the defence ineffective. In addition, the new ritual for judicial appeals in the field of international protection appears to be seriously critical in terms of constitutional legitimacy. The provision by Article 6 of the decree-law of a single degree of merit characterized by a written knowledge of the rule in which the hearing is only a possibility and has a chamber form, in fact violates the principle of contradictory and publicity of the trial, guaranteed by Article 111 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, as reiterated in the constitutional jurisprudence and the European Court of Human Rights. The use of video recording of the hearing of the applicant potentially replacing the hearing of the foreigner by the judge, pursuant to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, does not comply with the objective set out in the provisions of the European Union legislator aimed at strengthening the rights of applicants for international protection. The elimination of the appeal - this is the other really painful point - while it appears irrational and presents elements of unconstitutionality in the Italian order, in which the guarantee of the double degree of merit is also provided for civil disputes of far less value than the ascertainment of whether or not there is a valid risk of persecution or exposure to torture, inhuman and degrading treatments or war events in case of return to your country, does not appear justified if we consider the inevitable transfer in the judgment before the Court of Cassation of the criticalities and dysfunctions that it declares to want to eliminate. The removal of the appeal, moreover, will abolish for the sole matter of international protection an essential moment of standardization of the jurisprudential guidelines and will end up burdening heavily on the cargoes of the Cassation. The constitutional illegitimacy of these choices derives in short from having foreseen at the same time: the chamber rite for the treatment of the related proceedings; the chamber rite where the existence of the hearing is possible and possible is also the participation of the party in the trial and its hearing; the solution referred to in the previous points in a process that sees, as the main source of proof, the statements of the party, which must be evaluated exnunc by the judge for express European legal provision; the elimination of the double degree of judgment of merit. On the choice of not providing any discipline of the defined centres of crisis points, I will address myself in general discussion. The last point, but certainly not in importance, is the following. It is certainly true, as pointed out in the accompanying report to the decree-law, that the guarantees underlying the right to an effective remedy before the court vary according to the nature of the procedural matter (criminal, civil, administrative) and the type and degree of judgment; just as it is true that the guarantee of the oral hearing, which is inescapable for the criminal process, may be subject to substantial restrictions in civil and administrative processes; but it is equally true that the limitations to this guarantee must comply with the principle of proportionality. I believe that there is no doubt that the process of recognising the right to international protection is bound to end with a decision explaining the rights and life of the applicant which is quite comparable to that of a judgment in criminal matters. Well, the discipline laid down in this decree-law does not provide for the full right of the applicant for international protection to appear before his own court. For all these reasons, Mr President, we propose not to proceed with the examination of the measure in title.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u36	Since no one is asking to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft law n. 2705 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1) and Senator Barani and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again... [[Brusio.]] We're waiting for you to have some peace of mind.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u38	Members who wish to move away do so without delay so as to allow the speeches in general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u39	Please, Senator Amidei. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment, in accordance with the five minutes I have available, on a measure which - in my opinion - goes in the exact opposite direction to the one for which it was thought and written. At a time when we are going to define the most suitable ways of combating illegal immigration, we have to ask ourselves what legal immigration is, to the point that, out of absurdity, legal immigrants become illegal. If we go to read some specific rules, we are faced with an attitude and an articulated regulation that facilitates illegal immigration rather than countering it, thus going substantially in the opposite direction. Once again, the government has missed an opportunity to do something good. We adopt unsuitable systems to address a problem that, in its content and essence, is very serious. I am referring to how to effectively limit or combat illegal immigration rather than facilitate it in the rules. And with these unsuitable systems, it's like the government wants to go to the moon with the hang gliding. If we read two or three articles as an example, we quickly understand how inappropriate the rules of the provision are. I will also quote a few passages. Article 13 deals with the recruitment of legal-pedagogical professional officials, social service and cultural mediator with the aim of supporting educational interventions, work placement programmes, measures to support the treatment activity, in order to allow the full performance of the new functions, providing for about sixty units for this purpose. On the one hand, if we take the positive aspect of hiring staff, on the other hand, there is a further expenditure and a clear will to maintain illegal immigrants, which means almost all of them. And some articles go further to corroborate what I say, such as that which speaks of appeal against the decree of expulsion for reasons of national security and terrorism. On the other hand, Article 17 states: "At the same crisis points, phototyposcopic and signal detection operations shall also be carried out, as provided for in the EU Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, and information shall be provided on the international protection procedure, on the relocation programme in other Member States of the European Union and on the possibility of recourse to assisted voluntary return." Do you think that people who arrive in our territories with means of fortune that defy any common sense criterion, such as boats and canoes, risking their lives, should voluntarily return assisted? I think you're totally out of common sense. I do not quote Article 18 for reasons of time, but Article 19 at a certain point speaks of the relocation of the centres of new institution, which is heard by the President of the region concerned, but the mayors are not appointed, who are important and fundamental figures of the territories. And, therefore, once again, there is an inappropriate criterion to ensure that those people can be placed. Areas of public ownership outside urban centres are indicated as the best sites, made suitable for the purpose through adaptation and restructuring, taking into account the need to create structures of limited capacity, suitable to ensure conditions of detention that ensure absolute respect for the dignity of the person. And in your opinion, in such a logic, should we think that these are decisive criteria for illegal immigration? I am in favour of illegal immigration. But when this government ever bothered... I don't know where Minister Minniti is right now. I have seen it before in this House and I hope that it will also take account of the words I am making. Do I still have a minute, Mr. President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, he's already out of three. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). I'll get the one from before. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it includes that. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). I'll finish then. Mr Minniti, who I do not see present in this House, when the government places immigrants in public or private structures, has the problem ever arisen of the impact on a social and economic fabric, on certain realities and areas? Has there ever been a problem with the damage done to that tourist facility in the vicinity of which the owner of another, in agreement with the prefect, has decided to accommodate those people? And no one raises the problem of the damage that is created, which is not clearly inherent in the nature of those people, who have objectives other than the tourist who visits a place. Nobody, however, wonders about the damage that such situations create. Then, Minister, who I do not see present in this House, take account of these situations. Before moving those people in an arbitrary way, ask yourself about the difficulties that arise for the locals, who are obliged to host them. Mr President, thank you for your patience, but the Minister has not done the same. I hope that my words will not remain unheard of and once in a while, when we make the measures, they will be done in the right way and are not useless, like the many laws we have in Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u40	Senator Amidei, I gave you a little more time to compensate for your lack of answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u41	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in this decree-law an overall vision of the phenomenon of immigration has been missing and how our country, for more than three years, has been trying to govern it - in a bad way - because it lacks a serious analysis, also due to the incompleteness and fragmentation of the data (the one that this decree-law does not want to fill). If we really want to govern immigration in a situation of constant emergency, we cannot just address the issue of human rights and human rights, procedural guarantees or international rights. The main problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that many people in this Parliament are calling into question a firm point, which is a fundamental premise when dealing with the issue of immigration: international asylum law recognizes international protection only to those who flee from wars or those who are persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or for their political opinions. On the other hand, there is no international right to protection for economic migrants or even for climate migrants, as many people here would like to recognise. I would like to describe the phenomenon in Italy. In the three years 2014-2016 the entrances and the landings were 505.000, but - attention - only by sea. To these should be added the thousands of people who enter by land, from Austria and Slovenia in particular, that is from countries of the Schengen area, where we do not impose the right of country of first entry. From the beginning of the year to 20 March 2017 more than 18,000 people have already entered by sea, equal to more than 32 percent compared to the same period last year. Why do I give data from the last three years? Since the end of 2013, the year in which 42,330 entrances were recorded, there has been a surge of landings thanks - I emphasize - to the operations Mare nostrum (introduced after the massacre of Lampedusa of 3 October 2013) and, then, Triton. In the objectives, those international missions should have been a deterrent to the boatmen and should have reduced the deaths at sea. As the data show, the results have seen instead an exponential increase of the entrances, to greater reason after the activity of the ships of the non-governmental organizations from september last year. Secondly, the deaths at sea have increased - and by a great deal. I give some data provided by the International Organisation for Migration. From 1990 to 2012 (i.e. twenty-three years) 2,711 deaths were recorded in the Mediterranean. In 2013, the number was 477 (including 388 dead in the Lampedusa massacre on 3 October). After the operation Mare nostrum the number of deaths rose: in 2014 it was equal to 3,270, in 2015 to 3,771 and last year to over 5,000. In the first two months of the current year there are already more than 500 dead. We come to the non-governmental organisations, about which the Prosecutor of the Republic of Catania Zuccaro spoke this morning in the parliamentary committee to monitor the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. Since September 2016 belonging to a dozen non-Italian non-governmental organizations, half based in Germany, sprouted like mushrooms - as Frontex says, they do not cooperate with police and intelligence activities - have 13 ships flying the flag of countries with little collaboration with our magistrates that station permanently - h24 - to the limit of the Libyan waters and they are noticed by scafist facilitators, who thus send towards them precarious rubbers, of Chinese production, loaded with immigrants that are saved and transported to Italy. In 2016 as a whole, these non-governmental organizations carried out, on their own, 30 percent of the rescues at sea in the research and rescue areas. In the first two months of 2017, working at full capacity, they carried out 50 percent of the relief and, in spite of the provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, they carefully guard against bringing the saved migrants to the nearest and safest port in Zarzis, Tunisia, but they head directly to Italy. These ships, super equipped and equipped with sophisticated drones, have very high navigation costs, estimated in about 10,000 euros per day each. Who's funding this? Is this a planned invasion at the table? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gibiino]] It is unacceptable for private individuals to replace the state in order to actually create a humanitarian corridor to our country. We wonder if these non-governmental organizations promote illegal immigration to Italy. They should be investigated not only under the so-called Article 12 of the Bossi-Fini Act, for aiding the crime of illegal immigration, but also for manslaughter. The prosecutor of Catania also correlates the activities of these NGOs with the increase of deaths, since criminal organizations resort to increasingly inadequate dinghies (Chinese dinghies where one dies even by crushing) driving non-hunters, who have become smart, but the migrants themselves, simply endowing them with compass and cell phone, for which the crime of aiding illegal immigration is not even configurable. After the entrances, we come to the number of asylum applications in the last three years: they have been "only" 300,000 against the 500,000 entrances. Where did the 200,000 who didn't apply for asylum go? During the three-year period, of these 300,000 applicants, only 220,000 applications were examined by the Territorial Commissions. In 2016 asylum applications were 123,600 (50% more than in 2015) and in the first weeks of 2017 we register an increase of 60 percent compared to the same period of 2016. Again last year, 91,100 requests were "only" examined, of which 60% were rejected. Therefore, despite the increase in territorial commissions (which have been raised to 48 for 18 months) the queue of people waiting to examine the asylum application is constantly growing: on 10 March - says the President of the National Commission for the Right of Asylum, the Prefect Found - the gradients in relation to asylum applications are 120,000. Analyzing such requests then reveals some very interesting things. The most numerous nationalities applying for international protection in Italy are not those who actually need international protection (the threshold that the EU establishes in 75%). The first nationality to apply for asylum is Nigeria with eight percent recognition of protection; the second is Pakistan with 23 percent; the third is Gambia with five percent; the fourth is Senegal with four percent; the fifth is Ivory Coast with eight percent; the sixth is Eritrea with 74 percent. In short, for quantity of asylum applications you have to get to sixth place in order to find Eritreans and even eleventh in order to find Afghans, both nationalities that actually need international protection, but that record low numbers. First thoughts. This explains why over the last two years the average percentage of refugees is five percent, while that of those obtaining subsidiary protection is 14%; that is, less than 20% (one out of five) of the examinations of asylum applications will recognize international protection. The data show, therefore, that the majority of asylum seekers are economic migrants, therefore illegal, illegal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are put in the reception system for years. Among the nationalities of migrants entering the country, Pakistanis get three percent refugee status and five percent subsidiary protection, and are therefore mainly economic migrants, therefore illegal immigrants. The numbers tell us that Pakistanis landed in 2016 are much less (20 percent) than those who applied for asylum: 2.770 have landed, 13.510 have applied for asylum in 2016. Have they been parachuted in our country? No. What, then, is the motivation? Following the Balkan route - which is therefore not completely interrupted, despite us Europe, we Italy, we give six billion to Sultan Erdogan to block it [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] - Pakistanis and other migrants, coming from the Middle East, pass through the land borders, especially Austrian and Slovenian, which are Schengen countries, which are therefore not controlled. Where does the most significant side of the emergency emerge with all force? It is in the reception system, which records a situation that becomes increasingly explosive every day. High entrances more photos of the carpet that has imposed us Europe have caused an explosion of the numbers that is causing the reception system to collapse where the so-called refugees are assisted. At the end of 2013 there were 22,000 in the reception system; at the end of 2014 there were 66,000, at the end of 2015 there were 104,000, at the end of last year 176,000, with huge expenses borne by our country; expenditures passed from 1.6 billion in 2013, with a European Union contribution of only 100 million euros, to 4 billion of 2016, with only 112 million EU contribution: a contribution that does not even approach less than 3% of the total cost. The tax impact of the migrant emergency affects almost 0.3% of our GDP; over 60 percent of these 4 billion is spent on reception: a spending with huge waste of resources. This is crazy. We note that for an average period of two or three years (sometimes even four) there are many people who 80% are not entitled to international protection, with the automatic consequence that 80 percent of the places in the reception system (almost 140,000) are provided by temporary structures, private homes or condominiums, hotels, resorts run by business-smelling cooperatives or failed hoteliers, often identified by prefects that bypass the mayors. All this happens at enormous economic and social costs, enormous tasks for the municipalities. I would now like to make a few comments. The decree-law is a change of pace, a reversal of trend compared to the disastrous three-year Renzi-Alfano. At last, we take note of the intolerable long periods of evaluation of asylum applications and appeals, as well as the high exchange of assessment (54 per cent of judges' judgments compared to commissions); officials are expected for the territorial commissions; for appeals in the courts there are specialised sections for asylum, which are late compared to when, a year and a half ago, Parliament has spoken in this regard asking the Government for a commitment; moreover, after having irresolutely dismantled them almost all, we take note of the need to identify places to hold the irregulars waiting for expulsion and refusal. The policy that has been implemented so far, which has foreseen the closure of the IECs, is being reversed, but we fear that this will simply be done in order to give a flexible response to the European Union which has reminded us of the weakness of the action of detention. But that is not enough. In the Commission's examination, the Decree-Law was watered down and emptied. Too much guarantees and protection of immigrants have been exquisite; guarantees which, despite already existing, have been sought to strengthen: for them so much attention, for the poor Italians, on the poverty line, without work, with a hunger pension and without home no protection. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We at the North League have a different immigration policy in mind. For us, we need to implement policies based on strictness and deterrents that discourage departures and therefore the deaths at sea. We urgently need to work to reduce pull factor, that is the factors of attraction, otherwise the invasion of our country will continue. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u44	Mr President, I take the floor on the Minniti Decree-Law, as has been briefly defined, which addresses a question that I consider to be central not only on the subject of the system of reception of migrants in Italy, but also to define what kind of country we are, as we think ourselves, what the level of civilization and ability to relate to both other countries and foreigners, but also to ourselves. 18.35 (Follows COCIANCICH). Figures are often cited, even perhaps a little manipulated and many of them unbelievable. I immediately say that in order to try to develop my reasoning, in the minutes that I have allowed myself, I will rely on the data that we have received with the 29th Report Italy of the Eurispes in distribution in these days and that are therefore easily verifiable by all those who listen to me. From the Eurispes report on Italy there are data that frankly should make us reflect and give an indication on which country we are today also in relation to the issue of immigration and - let me say - also of emigration. In fact, it may seem surprising but Italy is still a country with a higher emigration than immigration. Italians registered with the Italian Register of Foreign Residents (AIRE), according to the Eurispes document, exceed 4.8 million. Overall it is estimated that there are at least 5,200,000 Italians abroad, while we know that foreigners resident or hosted in various ways in Italy are about 5 million. So, we are actually a country that has a numerically superior emigration to immigration. The interesting thing to note is that our emigration is of a strictly economic nature, because Italian citizens who go abroad - I say a banality - are not forced by war, hunger or famine, but are citizens who have a more than legitimate aspiration to improve their own system of life, their own quality of work and who seek opportunities for encounter: we think that this is normal and desirable. We also think that this can bring well-being to our country and therefore we promote this emigration of an exquisitely economic nature. For what reason, then, if we are proud and happy to be able to emigrate for economic reasons, must we continue to look, with cheerful eyes, at those who, coming from other latitudes, move for the same reasons? This is the first contradiction that we should think about, because it is a double morale that we put in place, so what we do is fine, but if others do it, exactly for the same reasons, it is not good. I find myself very uncomfortable in the face of this rather Manichaean distinction between the condition of the immigrant refugee and that of the migrant for economic reasons, because, if we look at the economic situations of many of the countries from which these migrants come, they justify their migrate abroad much more than the reasons behind our emigration. I think we should avoid this double-crossing between us and others and we should look with interest at the reasons why others come to our country. If you look at this with interest we will discover that most of those who come do it because they want to integrate, realize their lives, help improve it and, at the same time, improve that of the country that hosts them. Is that what happened? I believe that this is the fundamental question, because otherwise it seems that we must divide between those who do the vouchers and are for the reception and those who are more pragmatic and are against the reception and who want to reject the invasion, as Senator Arrigoni has just said. If I look at economic data and economic advantage for our country I read about the Eurispes report that the direct economic contribution of immigrants in Italy exceeds 120 billion euros in 2015, equal to 8.7 percent of total GDP; in 1998 this ratio was only 2.3 percent. Moreover, the presence of immigrants in the years of expansion, i.e. from 1998 to 2007, increased cumulative GDP growth by 3.9 percentage points, i.e. from 10.5 to 14.4%. While in the years of the crisis, when GDP fell, it limited the decline in GDP by three points, which therefore fell from 10.3% to 7.3%. Without immigrants we would have had a much greater decline. I therefore ask: when we are proposing - and I certainly do not propose it - policies that go towards the indiscriminate rejection of migrants or refugees, I wonder whether we are proposing a forward-looking policy and in the interests of Italians or whether we are proposing a policy that ultimately harms our country. I believe that this is the question to which any of us here today, whatever its cultural or philosophical orientation, should try to give an answer. I have the impression that insisting on a policy of obtuse and blind rejection in the end has no other consequence than that of damaging our country. I believe that this must be one of the reasons why we must try to shift our attention from a policy of mere rejection to a policy of acceptance capacity, because today we are deeply incapable of adequately welcoming those who come to our country. These come - I repeat - with the intention of bringing wealth and well-being for themselves, for the families who have left in the country of origin and also for the country that hosts them, in which in many cases, where they are integrated, they would pay taxes, taxes, contributions, thus financing not only their personal life, but also the overall welfare system. We must take this into account if we consider that today the level of demographic decline in our country is dramatic, and it is expected that in the coming years there will be a decline in the population of more than 20 million Italian citizens. Who will pay pensions to Italian citizens if there are no more young people who can work and pay contributions? That is what I am asking of those who today are merely advocating a policy of rejection. We are interested in having quality immigration, if possible, and the statistical surveys show that the majority of foreigners who come to Italy have a high-profile cultural and intellectual level: they are engineers, doctors, people who tend to be alphabetized and graduate, and who also accept underpaid jobs and a level that Italians no longer accept. [[Comments of Senator Gaetti]] We have the important problem of finding resources for jobs that Italians no longer accept to do and we have the opportunity to use the resources that are offered to us by these migrants. I believe that it would be a sign of the civilization of our country if we were able to offer them suitable economic conditions for work, because we are of the conviction that all men are equal on this planet and that therefore, with equal work, they must be treated properly. This would prevent one of the important problems, namely the attraction that these foreigners find on the part of criminal organizations, because it is the mafia organizations and those that generally move in the lawlessness that are strengthened with people left in lawlessness; an illegality that is, at the end of the day, by law, because in fact you cannot frame these people by giving them a perspective of real integration. At last I come to the so-called Minniti decree, which tries to put some clarity in all this system; it tries to give a more rational, more effective and even faster system on the subject of reception, so as to check if there are the requirements to be able to ask for reception. I cannot fail to recall the third paragraph of Article 10 of our Constitution, which reads as follows: The foreigner, who is prevented in his country from exercising the democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, has the right to asylum in the territory of the Republic, in accordance with the conditions laid down by law. Therefore, all those who cannot benefit from the democratic freedoms guaranteed in our country, have the right to asylum in Italy. This also prevails over all international conventions, which however recognize a right of asylum, even if under more restrictive conditions; but our country and our Constitution, what has been called the most beautiful Constitution in the world, guarantees this type of right: the right to asylum. And we cannot escape, today, the precepts of the Italian Constitution. In conclusion, Madam President, I believe that we can only welcome a system which allows us to act quickly, which offers reasonable guarantees of defence and which prevents young foreigners, who have crossed the sea, from rotting for years in the CIE, allowing a prompt definition of their condition, in order to be able to enter more quickly into the Italian economic system. This is the reason why, although there may be some aspects that are not totally convincing in the decree-law under consideration, I believe that in essence it makes our country take a step forward in the reception. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u46	Madam President, today Pope Bergoglio said that immigration is the greatest tragedy since the Second World War. He is right, but since I remember, immigration into our country has been managed in a demagogic way, by exercising populism, without facing it with the energy necessary for a great tragedy. I am referring to the governments that have succeeded themselves, on the right and on the left, to the Turkish-Napolitan law, which should have regulated regular immigration and did not do so, to the Bossi-Fini law, which provided for expulsions with the accompaniment to the borders: but to which borders, since migrants come from sub-Saharan Africa? Should we have taken them to the border with Slovenia? And how were we supposed to do that? I am also referring to the crime of illegality, which is still in force and which punishes a status and not specific criminal conduct. Of course, there is not only this: I have seen Sicilian farmers and fishermen make human chains to save migrants and shipwrecked people 100 meters from the shore and there was Operation Mare nostrum, in which Italian ships went to Maltese waters to save people, because Malta followed the policy of the three owls, who do not see, hear and do not speak. Then, once migrants landed on our territory - and that's what we read in the newspapers and what people say - what happened to them? For three years there was the Renzi-Alfano tandem, which was divided into work in a smart way. On the one hand, Renzi rightly asked Europe to take on the problem of migrants and on the other hand, Alfano allowed many of them to cross this long country of ours, to the borders with the European States of the North, where they wanted to go. Cleverness, however, does not pay. You understand that Europe has used this cunning of ours as an alibi in order not to answer a fair question, that is to say to those who asked that this great tragedy be dealt with not only by countries affected by immigration, but by the whole of Europe. Then came the 2008 crisis. Alfredo Reichlin, whom some colleagues recalled, wrote a week ago that at the Lingotto we embraced liberalism, not seeing that it was coming the most serious and the most disastrous crisis of capitalism. Well, that crisis has changed things also with regard to immigration, which has become an appetizing business, both for corruption, for the corrupt and for the corrupt, and for the mafias. I guess you remember Buzzi's words: Do you have any idea how much I make on immigrants? Drug trafficking makes it less. Or Odevaie's, who said, Having this continuous relationship with the Ministry... I am able (...) to direct flows. And he directed these flows towards the outskirts, creating a very dangerous war between the poor, that is, between people marginalized like migrants or who belong to the petty bourgeoisie, who tries to build his urban decorum in the outskirts and who feel threatened by these new arrivals. Now it seems that everything has changed: now Minniti has arrived. Of Minniti it could be said that it comes from a school, that of the officials of the PCI, about which once D'Alema had to say, in my presence, that it is the only school of formation of the ruling class of our country, since we do not have the École nationale d'administration (ENA). In fact Minniti seems more skilled than Alfano, he can certainly speak in public better than Lotti and looks more solid than a Sandro Gozi. But Minniti also falls into the usual mistakes. The decree-law that we are examining has been written by the same consultants and officials who have written the laws that have had such sudden results in our history. In fact, the strong idea of this measure is the abolition of a degree of judgment only for migrants. But this is a slow triggering bomb. I am well aware of the length of our criminal and civil proceedings and for many years I think that the generous reform promoted by Vassalli of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Civil Procedure, with the arrival of the accusatory rite in a system that was inquisitory, has not yet been digested, and that a great reform should be put in place. But abolishing a degree of judgment only for a category of persons is a way of proceeding that does not take into account the universality of judgments and that cannot keep to the test of history and even the immediate chronicle. And that's not all there is. There is a possibility for the judge not to hear the asylum seeker, but merely to hear the record of the sitting before the committee. The defence can and may not be there when you give judgment on the merits of the request for international protection. Some of the rules contained in the decree-law, despite the attempt to improve it in a chaotic way in the work of the Commission, are suicide rules, that is, made in such a way as to be rejected very soon by the Constitutional Court. This makes me think that we are again faced with an ammuna, that is, a measure that serves to say that there is and not to face and resolve the great tragedy of which Pope Francis spoke. Then there is the right thing that Minniti says in the newspapers, namely that an agreement should be reached with the countries from which migrants arrive. Of course we should agree with these countries, but I do not see any criticism of the agreement, already in crisis, that Europe has done with Turkey. There was a proposal from Vatican diplomacy that went in another direction and that asked for areas made safe at the borders with Syria: a reception managed by international organizations. This was not done and the dictator Erdogan was trusted, as Gaddafi had been trusted in the past. And soon the immigration faucet, which was apparently closed to the detriment of the living conditions of these migrants, will be reopened. There's an agreement with Libya. What's the deal? A written agreement on the sand, with a government that governs, perhaps, only a few districts of Tripoli. And then there is the worst: I am referring to the other measure that must come (in fact, that has already arrived in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs): the one on security. Here the migrants, the poor, the marginalized and those who make begging in the cities are put together and mayors are invited to intervene to defend public decorum. This is a very serious matter. Of course, Minniti says that it is not so and that there is always the prefect who intervenes and the mayor points out. But you must consider things in context. In a situation in which mayors, with the cutting of transfers to municipalities and regions, no longer have a way of being what they were, that is, mayors directly elected by the people, the representatives of the State before the request for justice, the representatives of the State before the request for protection, welfare and social protection: at the time when mayors can no longer do this and they are given the task of signaling the fall of the urban decorum and of communicating to the prefects who are the people to be removed, do you not see how the function of the mayor changes? Then when these people are removed from our eyes, from us who live in the historical centers together with tourists and beautiful locals and libraries, they must be placed where they had already been put with the story of Mafia Capitale and Buzzi: in the poor suburbs where the struggle between the poor is unleashed. Because a part of our country is so angry with those above, but then it gets angry with those below her. That's the truth. And it's a very dangerous phenomenon. In America, for example, there is a native people who define themselves as the people of men, which implies that those who do not belong to the tribe are not a man. But if you do this you lose the sense of humanity and you end up becoming not men too. I would like to conclude with two quick comments, the first of which on the rule of law. In the United States, even in the face of the terrorist emergency, after 9/11, no one thought of changing American laws and guarantees for every citizen. They've invented an infamous filth like Guantanamo because if the terrorist had arrived on American soil he would have enjoyed all the rights of an American citizen. That is what we have to vote on between today and tomorrow. Secondly, I wanted to say that a bit of political realism and transparency is needed against demagogy and populism. The first thing to say is that we cannot tackle the problem of immigration without humanity. In this regard, I would like to refer to the comparison already made on the people of men and I do not repeat myself. Secondly, we need to deal with the problem intelligently: our country is a country of old people, so we need young people to come somewhere else to become Italian citizens. Thirdly, we must manage this phenomenon rigorously, because if we do not guarantee rigour, respect for the law, it is absolutely clear that the war between the poor is created that makes us all less human. Then there are those who exploit the moment and blow on fire, but it is the essential thing that has been lacking: the political will to tackle the problem of immigration has been lacking, and unfortunately it is still missing. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u47	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the students of the Faculty of Law of the University of Messina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u49	Madam President, the decree-law that we are about to convert comes to light with the extraordinary migratory pressure that we have before us and that, above all, we must be able to govern better and better. We know - first of all the Government that proposes it - that this decree-law does not constitute a decisive recipe, if ever there were one, because different policies and different interventions are necessary. The decree-law to our examination is nothing more than an adjustment of the legislative framework and the policies that we must achieve, knowing that they are many and are due to great intervention as the one, often mentioned, aimed at avoiding the departure of people especially from the Libyan and African coasts, such as readmission agreements that can allow to accompany back - in many cases, alas, even against their will - immigrants who are not entitled to a residence permit for humanitarian reasons. In addition, more investment is needed in the countries from which immigrants come and greater international cooperation. These and other actions represent the major policies which, of course, must also have other places of legislative direction where they can be developed even better. In part they are measures that can already find today, with this legislative framework, adjustments and implementations through the acts of government. The decree-law in our examination focuses, in particular, on the judicial procedures under which the legitimacy of requests for protection submitted by asylum seekers is assessed and which, in some way, aim to streamline such procedures which have undoubtedly proved excessively cumbersome. The simplification of procedures cannot, however - and the work done in the Commission certainly confirms this - call into question in any way the fundamental rights that must be recognised in the name of respect for the human person, but also the many international treaties that protect migrants. The other rather important issue that is addressed is how to exercise restraint, also in this case, respectful of the rights and dignity of the persons in custody, if you are faced with people who have committed crimes, who have gone to trial and for whom an expulsion procedure is provided through forced accompaniment. This further issue is addressed through an intelligent vision, i.e. a coating of return centers, through smaller-scale structures that can allow greater effectiveness, but also greater respect for the lives of people in custody. These are, basically, the challenges of this decree-law, which I believe can be identified as positively addressed. There are, then, other issues that have been dealt with only in passing - or rather, they are not - that our amending activity has tried to introduce, at the moment with little success, but that I want to remind you, so that it remains in the proceedings of the general debate, as absolutely important elements, as Mr Cociancich mentioned earlier. In a logic of completing immigration policies, we need to focus not only on proper management of flows, also in relation to the need to avoid forms of invasion (which we must of course avoid because flows must be regulated, as far as possible, well knowing that this is not really easy), but also on a policy of managing presences and new arrivals, precisely in relation to the data that Mr Cociancich used to remember. We are not, in fact, faced with an invasion, but with a phenomenon that can return - and has already returned - strongly useful to our economy and our communities; let us think of the many works that are carried out also in place of those once done by the Italians and that now the Italians struggle to accept to carry out. Precisely because of this wealth that immigration is bringing to our country, we must be able to welcome new arrivals in the most effective, most attentive and most promotional way. This is not the object of the decree-law in question and we may refer this challenge to other legislative measures. However, here I would at least like to touch on the fundamental issues that we have represented through our amending work, hoping that, perhaps during the last evaluations by the Government and in the debate by the Assembly, we can reconsider the proposals that have been, at least temporarily, not accepted. In particular, we urge that it may become widespread practice - and therefore law - what in many experiences we can define as widespread acceptance. We have, in fact, the need to avoid forms of containment of immigrants in a few large containers. Although it is perhaps inevitable that this happens for the first reception, it is absolutely inappropriate that there are forms of second reception in large containers; it is much more effective, as well as preferable also from the point of view of integration and social control, that the reception takes place instead in small and very small centres, in families, in third sector agencies, also not specialized in the reception. That was the point of the amendments that we had tabled and which, I repeat, we are counting on them to be given a different consideration in the debate in this House. In fact, we think that this can be a form of control, not only of reception, more effective than what we have so far, unfortunately frequently, even for understandable reasons, managed to implement, that is, the one organized in places of media and large dimension, with all the problems that this causes. Finally, a second basic idea concerns the need for useful work to be done by the people who have been welcomed and who are waiting to respond to the request to be recognised or not as refugees. Even in this case it is very important, although knowing that it is not possible to foresee an obligation from this point of view, that the people waiting for the answer can carry out - in many cases this possibility is precluded by a lack of organization - useful work also through the same widespread realities that guarantee the reception. This is a second suggestion that we are giving to the debate in this House and that we believe is fundamental for the completion of this path, on the one hand, of a rigorous assessment of the requirements for entry into Italy and, at the same time, of an intelligent reception, able also to deal with a question that I summarize in a very simple way: what do we do of the people who have been positively evaluated following the exercise of useful work and who have been rejected the application for a residence permit for reasons of protection? In these cases we cannot simply say that everyone must be repatriated because this is materially impossible. We'll have to find intelligent forms. For example, in an amendment it is written that the positive exercise of useful work could become a positive element of assessment for the granting of a residence permit for reasons of humanitarian protection. These are suggestions at the moment because the amendments have been rejected, but we believe that they are important proposals which must enter the political agenda of our Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u50	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u51	Madam President, the decree-law we are debating is lacking in a number of ways, in particular with regard to the recognition of the fundamental rights provided for in our legal system. It should be noted that it does not meet the requirements, as laid down in the Constitution, of extraordinary necessity and urgency, as it contains both rules of non-immediate application and heterogeneous rules. The gradual increase in applications for recognition of the right to international protection has been recorded since 2011 and, more significantly, since 2014. Therefore, it cannot be considered reasonable to consider the characteristics of extraordinaryness to exist. In contrast to Article 77 of the Constitution, the decree-law, in fact, does not contain rules of immediate application: some provisions will apply from the one hundred and thirty days after the entry into force of the provision. The time necessary for the Supreme Council of the judiciary to adopt the organisational circulars shall be saved. The reasons for urgency put forward by the Government to avoid accumulation in the role in the courts do not seem to be consistent with the real intentions. There are rules that are not uniform with respect to the object of the measure. In fact, Article 13 regulates the recruitment of officials of legal-pedagogical professionalism, social service, as well as cultural mediator in favor of the services of the Department of Juvenile Justice and community of the Ministry of Justice. They are assigned to the exclusive competence of 26 specialised sections - we have heard the rapporteur - which are outside international protection. These are, in fact, disputes, as provided for in Article 3, concerning foreign nationals, with the exception of citizenship and expulsions, matters for which jurisdiction remains in the hands of the judge of peace, and ordinary residence permits, already within the jurisdiction of the administrative jurisdiction. The choice of the establishment of sections specializing in 26 courts divided on national territory is not based on and reflected on the disputes instituted, up to now, in the various territorial courts, neither in the times of their definition, nor in the relationship between the number of decisions of the commissions and the appeals of the same. The identification of the offices at which the future sections are located shall be based on data relating to the number of applications for international protection examined in 2015 and 2016. A degree of judgment of merit (appellate degree) in the procedures for the recognition of international protection is lacking. In this way, the guarantees provided by the Constitutional Charter for foreign nationals are reduced, which are recognised by other citizens. The adoption of such a choice reasonably results in marginalisation of the parties involved in the choice. After the rejection by the territorial commissions of the request aimed at the recognition of international protection and the consequent refugee status, it is possible to appeal to the court and, subsequently, to challenge the further and eventual refusal before the court of appeal. On the other hand, the measure under consideration provides that the degree of appeal, with all that comes from it in relation to the protection of fundamental rights, will be disregarded by violating Article 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The judgment on the right of recognition of international protection shall be held in the chamber of the Council, in accordance with the rite provided for in Articles 737 et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure; this is a simplified and rapid rite in relation to the rite of ordinary knowledge. At present, the parties concerned are expected to appear, hence the applicant who intends to challenge the refusal of the territorial commission. The decree-law under consideration provides that the appearance of the applicant is exclusively arranged in certain cases that are exhaustive, deemed to be such at the discretion of the judge. This violates the principle of contradiction in the formation of evidence. The 5 Star Movement has proposals to make in this regard, that can somehow stop illegal landings but above all save everyone: Italians, too often forgotten, and refugees, forced to flee from their lands of origin to arrive in a country now exhausted, suffocated by a political class committed to pursuing only their own interests and unable to offer a future even to its citizens. Our proposals are: overcoming the so-called Dublin Convention; initiatives towards countries of origin and transit, in order to combat criminal organizations that profit and continue to profit from human trafficking; setting up maximum quotas of migrants per country, defined on the basis of demographic and economic indices, so as to obtain a fair distribution of the same; setting up asylum applications points, financed by the European Union, also outside the European territory and in collaboration with the United Nations; reviewing all interministerial calls for the first reception and management of related services, with particular regard to the criteria of expenditure; granting of goods and services for Italian families in difficulty, because it is absolutely necessary to avoid tensions between Italian citizens and refugees. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u52	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u53	Madam President, I have listened very carefully to the speeches of the rapporteurs and my colleagues. Of course, these were not exactly targeted at the text of the measure, but this is not a coincidence, since the measure is very technical. It is clear from listening to the speeches of colleagues that the Government has intervened in such a serious matter and has completely removed itself from reality. This measure deals with the establishment of specialised sections, as if the problem of immigration were limited to the management of applications for international protection by asylum seekers, so how to manage migration flows in numbers. So let's solve or try to solve downstream what we're not solving upstream. A few years ago the number of migrants, who - as the colleague of the League has emphasized - are economic migrants, was reduced to a few thousand units. As there were few units landing on our coasts, there was no need to set up specialist sections to deal with this matter. The numbers that accompany the report on the bill of conversion of this decree-law in fact show a worrying escalation. In 2013, the number was 26,620, in 2014 to over 63,000, in 2015 to 83,900 and in 2016 to 123,600. Well, under these conditions we find ourselves at a time when we do not know what is happening. Just this morning the Head of State pointed out that Europe does not grow demographically and economically, while there is an Africa that does not grow economically, but demographically it is projected to move from one to two billion people. If these people are continuously brought to Italy, we would not be in a position to handle them even if all the courts became specialized sections. We have tabled a number of amendments, but the government has remained deaf. Can we move forward without thinking about bilateral agreements with the countries from which an important flow of migration comes? Can we continue, as some colleagues in this House have pointed out, not to ascertain which boats are bringing migrants to Italy? Can we continue to close our eyes and not see that there are boats that cost thousands and thousands of euros a day and that have nothing to do with the Navy or the European Union's commitment to the Mediterranean? We are talking about boats that bring 50% of migrants to our ports, going to pick them up a few miles from the African coast. Can we still not notice how these boats do not use the nearest port, but cross the Canal of Sicily and bring migrants to Italy? Article 8 begins to regulate vaguely how these applicants for international protection on a voluntary basis can be employed in activities of social utility, on the indication of the prefects, who promote them in agreement with the municipalities, within the framework of a condition of favor of the local community. On the sidelines of everything I've told you, I'd like to point out that I've conducted an investigation, which will probably be going out on the media in a few weeks, about what exactly happens at Mineo's CARA. If certain things happen there, they probably happen in the other centers. I remember Mineo's CARA is the biggest center and gathers thousands of people. Under the watchful eye of our Order Forces, every day, at 7 a.m., the gates are opened and migrants are allowed to take out hundreds and hundreds of bicycles. Migrants then return through the gate and are later allowed to leave at 8, not to important groups, but, as they say, to the change. They turn to bicycles and take themselves to agreed places, along the road around the territory of Caltagirone and Mineo, where they are collected by groups that manage these thousands of migrants, taking them to the camps. On the other hand, this form of recruitment is called a caporalate. This condition is managed at local level and migrants are paid a daily amount of between 15 and 20 euros. At the end of the evening migrants return with their bikes to the CARA di Mineo and return to the center. What I say is well known to everyone, and I do not know how this phenomenon can fit into Article 8 of the measure, where there is talk of activities of social benefit to the local community on a voluntary basis. What is happening in Italy with the management of migrants and their costs, as well as with boats of non-governmental organizations, is an incredible gravity. I am sorry to have listened to someone in this House calling this whole migration process a wealth for our GDP, even talking about the possibility of managing migrants not in centres such as CARA, but bringing them into the family for the overall growth of Europeans together with Africans. These are words, spoken by colleagues of majority to support a measure that has no head or tail; it does not solve downstream what this Government is unable to resolve upstream. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u54	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what my colleague said just now, I believe that the decree-law gives answers, not all of them, but gives answers to the non-emergency management of migratory flows; rather, management is organic and rational. Today flows are increasingly linked to the political instability of the southern Mediterranean countries and have led to a real change in the characterization of the migratory phenomenon, determined by the need to flee from places devastated by wars and persecutions. We have to keep this in mind. With reference to the decree-law I note that, although it does not provide all the answers, it responds to some fundamental concrete measures in order to rationalise and simplify the procedures that up to now have put in great difficulty the operations relative to the recognition of migrants who have the right to international protection, the relative judicial appeals and in court of appeal. The numbers of migrants who risk their lives to reach our country - it has been said - are shocking and constantly increasing. In 2013 asylum applications were 26,620, in 2016 123,600. In 2017 this number is in strong increase: only in the first months of 2017, 15,844 migrants arrived in Italy by sea; 74 percent more than in the same period last year. The continuous increase in flows, and consequently in demands for international protection, is of course worrying; we have seen that until now territorial commissions have been in great difficulty in sorting applications and organizing returns for irregular migrants. This fact should not surprise us: the tools available were - and this decree-law puts forward these aspects - inadequate to deal with such a large number of people. Let me say that I value overall positive the rules contained in the decree-law, which assumes the commitment to reduce the times of the applications and to make the taking charge of migrants to be allocated to the forms of reception provided: from relocation to forced repatriation. I would like to focus attention, ladies and gentlemen, on some articles. In particular, I would point out that in Article 1, following the adoption of some of the amendments - one of which I signed - the 14 specialised sections in district courts have risen to 26. I would say that this is a fundamental rule which I am fully satisfied with. I would also point out Article 6, which contains the criteria for the recognition of international protection, which will help speed up administrative and judicial procedures. I also welcome Article 13, which contains forecasts of educational interventions, work placement programmes, measures to support treatment: it is the constructive part of the measure, which was first widely mentioned - also with reference to amendments which, unfortunately, have not been accepted - by Mr Lepri. There is also Article 19, which contains two key words (efficiency and effectiveness) to ensure the effectiveness of return and expulsion measures to be taken by the new residence centres for return (CPR), resulting from the transformation of CIEs. So the CIEs are no longer there, but we hope that the time spent in these centres will be very short. I hope above all that we will avoid concentrating in the same locations as CARA and CPR and that the sensitivity of the populations is properly appreciated: for example in Gradisca there is a CARA and there was a CIE, and if the latter will be transformed into CPR obviously the problem will be felt. Such situations, I hope, should be avoided. I also welcome the strengthening of the territorial commissions, financially, in the specialization of staff and in the number, as well as the formation of specialised sections with regard to the courts. I believe that priority, fundamental and positive is the fact that in every Region of Italy a court of appeal has been established specifically dedicated to the disposal of decision-making appeals by migrants. Thus, for example, a region such as Friuli-Venezia Giulia, first burdened by substantial migratory flows deriving from the so-called Adriatic-Baltic corridor, was initially to have the specialized court closest to Venice, also called to cover the jurisdiction of the whole Triveneto (Trentino, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia). Obviously this fact would have been dysfunctional, precisely because of the high number of transits of migrants and the not indifferent distances between the centers for the repatriation and Venice. It is therefore a good thing that the Commission has also taken the matter up and increased the number of such courts to 26. Secondly, it is good for the Ministry to increase the number of specialized staff in closer contact with migrants, such as interpreters who, after specific training, can make a significant contribution to the knowledge of the status and needs of incoming migrants. I also find useful the definition that the decree-law has given of the times of permanence of irregular migrants within the specialized structures, therefore also the simplification of the times of expulsion. As far as the CARAs are concerned, I agree that, as other colleagues have said, it is indeed necessary to focus on their gradual overcoming in order instead to facilitate the widespread reception of the protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR). In order to achieve effective exploitation of this system, as Minister Minniti himself suggested in a hearing at the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, it would be necessary to create voluntary work for migrants in our country, in order to allow them to obtain useful credits to achieve the right of asylum. These people also have the right and also the duty to contribute to the good of the country that welcomes them and must not be left to themselves, isolated, in conditions sometimes of forced idleness, in reception centers without doing anything. In the past I have asked several questions about migration flows, about the IECs, and I can say that I am pleased with the country's efforts to encourage the European Union to reach an agreement with Libya bilaterally necessary to regulate the flow of migrants. I conclude with the hope that Europe will surely pay attention to the needs of our country. Italy will certainly do its duty, it is doing it best in dealing with certain emergencies; however, as the head of State Mattarella has also mentioned today, all countries must guarantee equal sense of responsibility and a genuine spirit of European solidarity. Only in this way will one be able to address and solve a problem of universal and epochal scope that requires answers of equal breath and complexity. The future of Europe will be decided on these challenges. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u56	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u57	Madam President, the Minniti-Orlando decree, in our opinion, responds exactly to the rhetoric of immigration of which the right has been particularly nourished in recent years, but of course, judging by today's speeches, not only the right. We would have expected from the Government and the Democratic Party the proposal of a new cultural model able to change that of hatred, to combat all forms of discrimination, linked to ethnic-cultural nationality or membership, in access to civil, social and political rights, ensuring the removal of obstacles that prevent its effective exercise. It would have been very useful and necessary laws and policies to regularise migrants present on the territory in order to promote their social inclusion, building a sense of belonging able to contribute to a more widespread respect for the legality. In Italy, if someone had forgotten it, the law on immigration in force is called Bossi-Fini, a real racial law in a modern key, repeatedly retouched for worse but never deleted: a real shame. At such a delicate moment of international history, where we witness the construction of walls, barbed wire barriers against migrants, even by that great country that has built its own history precisely on the mixing of peoples, Italy and Europe have the duty to give a signal of total discontinuity and return to talk of welcome. We are well aware that it is an issue that does not bring votes: it is not by chance the deafening silence in the newspapers and on the larger television networks of the major forces of majority and opposition. It is too unpopular to talk about the reception of migrants, while it is easier to move before images of landings and deaths of women, children and men, no matter their fate. It does not matter if they are fleeing from wars, violence, hunger and poverty; that great poverty that we Western countries have helped to feed with the exploitation of those territories and peoples. Enough with the rhetoric that we are facing an unsustainable humanitarian emergency; the data do not say that. The storytelling of these years has encompassed the worst clichés. The CIEs, places of absolute in humanity as we have always denounced together with the associations that deal with reception, as confirmed by the report of the Human Rights Commission of the Senate, are now considered a necessity to the point that the Minniti decree provides one for each Region, with capacity up to 2,000 people: they are called Permanent Centers for return, without providing for modified functions but above all the full respect of the rights of the detained people. Expulsion that takes place, more or less and despite minor changes, with only ways for both those who come from crime routes and long prison periods and for foreign workers without a residence permit. It would therefore be more appropriate to provide for individual regularization paths. The Government thinks of the widespread reception by opening a CPR in each region in the total silence of the Presidents of the Region, even those who govern in the name of the center-left. A CPR will be opened even in Tuscany, my Region, place already identified and agreed. What about President Rossi? What about the mayors of PD? A lot of silence. Suddenly cancelled years of battles against the opening of the CIE in Tuscany. On the other hand, silence has deep roots. In 2014 the extraordinary reception centers (CAS) were invented, set up with circular of 8 January 2014 by the Ministry of the Interior, to face the extraordinary influx of foreigners, activated by prefectures; an emerging management still opaque and poorly useful to the lives of people. An emerging criterion that allows many facilities for the award process of the contract, guaranteeing a streamlined system for the management of immigrants and their control: a real business in the absence of controls by the prefectures (also on this we have urged the Government to intervene with several questions, presented in recent months). They are centres entrusted without contracts to supposed social enterprises, often of undoubted reliability, where abuse and abuse are consumed, and we really want to know how the money of the trusts is spent, which is why we have filed complaints to the prosecutors. A choice, this of CAS, that has created many problems with the local realities, because the mayors have not in many cases been neither informed nor involved in the simple choice of places; for many other mayors it has been a choice of convenience because it has deprived them of responsibility. It is for this reason that in our cities we see young foreigners wandering without doing anything, often victims of the racket of almsgiving, abandoned to their destiny and with the wrong image of work, of the culture of work and of our country. It is no coincidence that, even in this debate on the decree-law under consideration, we discussed - think - free work - a real paradox - and not job placements. However, this wrong system is not deleted, and it has nothing to do with words such as inclusion, reception and integration, which were typical - and are - of Law No 189 of 2002 which established SPRAR: a system of widespread assistance, consisting of a network of local authorities in collaboration with the third sector, with the aim of carrying out integrated reception projects not only aimed at immediate assistance, but at the social and economic integration of the applicants, in order to allow a reconquest of independence according to personalized paths. To date, the people involved in the SPRAR are far more than asylum seekers alone. The services, in small accommodations, range from primary needs to Italian courses, training courses, school integration, legal assistance and job placement. An integrated system involving local communities, institutions and citizens. Many mayors claim these experiences. It would then have been necessary to intervene in order to increase resources, please the growth and spread of this model, instead of preferring the opening of twenty CPRs, which we have not quite understood if it is added to the six CIEs, and with an increased capacity. In support of the decree-law and the thesis aimed at combating illegal immigration (still in place, and I must say that we have found it very ridiculous that our amendment to abolish it was considered inadmissible because of the extraneousness of the matter), the invasion and the emergency, a well-known journalist of inquiry, first in television programs and then on famous national newspapers, even proposes the opening of barracks, about 400 public places with 500 seats, for a total of 2,000 places. This ignores everything; ignoring that we are talking about people seeking asylum: refugees, displaced persons, refugees, who need not only places for detention, where depersonalization reigns, but services, skills, humanity and normality. In the emphasis of supporting the so-called Minniti decree, we have also come to define the elimination of an important guarantee as the second degree of judgment for the recognition of the right of asylum, that is, the possibility of appealing, as a good opportunity to simplify long times. In other words, constitutional guarantees are deleted in the name of simplification; Articles 3, 24 (on the right of defence) and 111 of the Constitution are violated. The National Association of Judges and many Constitutionalists denounced the serious attack on guarantees and rights with enormous and unpredictable consequences for all. A less guaranteeing procedure is introduced in the name of simplification, which discriminates against those who have already suffered violence and discrimination of all kinds. Positive is the increase in sections, which become 26; we would have liked collegiality and not the monocratic judge, for all cases and not just for very few possibilities. Today the data say that almost 70 percent of applications are accepted and that therefore people get a residence permit there are many. So we are talking about building this system for about 30 percent: those you continue to call "clandestine", but who are still people fleeing from wars, poverty and looking for hope for the future. There are emergencies that Parliament should be concerned with: a decree of flows that can allow regular hire of a worker or a baby sitter, and therefore hire foreigners in order to combat undeclared work; and the law on citizenship now postponed sine die. One cannot think of a reception system locked up in national borders: this morning the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate and the President of the Republic spoke about it. But then the priority is a real involvement of Europe, not because of the emergency but because of a structural reception. We would have expected a real battle of Italy on this, because, as President Mattarella said, in the history of Europe the barriers served only to anger the peoples. As the Italian Left we will vote against the decree-law in question, which we consider to be unconstitutional and discriminatory. I have to say that, listening to the speeches of the majority, who tell and speak of something else, for us it is completely incomprehensible how comrades of the street, who are represented by the colleagues of the majority, can decide to vote in favour of this shameful decree-law. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u59	Madam President, this decree-law deals with a very important issue, on which rules and procedures need to be redefined, so as to address a phenomenon that has taken on a different scale from those it had recently, not only from a quantitative point of view, but also from a qualitative point of view. The presence of numbers so hugely larger than those of a few years ago, which have been mentioned by some interventions prior to mine, also means that they change the quality of intervention and reception, the quality of the methods and procedures of reception, identification and management of lives, stories and suffering of so many tens of thousands of people, who come into contact with us, with the Italian State, with our organizational machine. All this is a more complicated matter to manage, which requires us all to pay more attention. With this measure we are taking a number of operational decisions, which are aimed at simplifying procedures, speeding up the mechanism and improving the efficiency of the system. (at 19.43) (JUDICE followed). Within words such as "slimming down" procedures, "velocization" and "efficiency" we find, however, the individual stories of so many people, who from our country expect a hope of life. Therefore, in the folds of the measure under consideration, we must manage and take into account those stories, those lives and those needs, often different from each other, all characterized by a situation of vulnerability, fragility and danger. The measure in question gives us, today, a perhaps more effective tool of management of this machine, but it also gives us many more responsibilities, because the speed of the procedures means that we put in place - for some of these measures in an unprecedented and therefore experimental way - the modalities and procedures that can carry with them the risk of a bureaucratization of the system and to make lose sight of the objective of which I mentioned earlier and which derives from the fact that our State finds itself managing so many suffering lives, many needs and many situations deriving from the escape from dangerous situations. From this point of view, some of the measures we have taken will need very timely monitoring. I am thinking, in particular, of some of the macro-measures that we are taking, namely a whole series of procedures such as the abolition of the possibility of appeal, which was at the heart of the debate we held in the Commission, a very useful and fruitful debate with which many issues have been dealt with and some corrections have been found. On this point we are told - and so it is - that as regards both our constitutional jurisprudence and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, those measures are perfectly within constitutionally correct procedures that guarantee the fundamental rights of the person. Those measures, which are, from a formal point of view, within this framework, can then, in their practical application, find debris and produce situations of injustice or the compression of fundamental rights. In fact, we must remember that when we are dealing with asylum seekers and applicants for international protection, we are in the presence of a good at stake, that of life and personal security, which for this reason is protected as a fundamental right not only by our legislation, but also by the international commitments that Italy has assumed over time. In the presence of the fundamental right to life and personal security, the abolition of that degree of appeal which, yes, can be considered, from the general point of view, compatible with the system of guarantees of fundamental rights, but which we are applying in a situation of fragility and preciousness of the rights involved, gives rise to a system that must be strongly monitored. Just as it will have to be handled with the utmost attention, and not in a bureaucratic way, the other novelty that is inserted, always from the point of view of the procedures. I am referring to the fact that the persons concerned will be able to see their request accepted or rejected, not on the basis of a direct hearing, but on the basis of the recruitment of videotapes. Here again, the ratio of the new rule is absolutely understandable, where we have been dealing in a few years with a hundred thousand more cases than we did a short time ago. However, in the face of so many situations of individual fragility such as those of people who run away from situations of great danger, faced with political persecutions and women who come from situations of violence, if not present in the places from which they left, encountered during the adventure of reaching our country or our coasts and, at the same time, to different conditions, existential, social and human relations, often of great weakness, the choice to entrust the life and decision on the life of a person to a video recording must be filled with great attention. We have included in the Commission's amendment the possibility for interested parties to request the hearing, but we have left the judge with the final decision on the direct hearing instead of the videotape. This too will require a great deal of attention and monitoring to ensure that everything is done in the best and not the most bureaucratic way. I would now like to add a word on the subject of detention centres for returnees. It has been said that they are necessary because a moment of detention for identification is indispensable if the goal is to expel those who are not entitled to remain in Italy. Attention, however, because it is not enough and it is not enough to have changed the name of the centres of identification and expulsion and to have called them centres of permanence for return; it is not enough to have determined a maximum number of presences within these centres where we know that these numbers are often not respected in reality; it is not enough and it is not enough to have provided the possibility, for the National Guarantor of persons deprived of personal freedom, to enter these centres and monitor them because this possibility, where it has been present in recent years, for example in the CIEs located in territories in which there were regional guarantors of the prisoners, has had a containment function but certainly not the ability to resolve in a structural way a series of very, very serious situations that over the years have occurred within the CIEs in our country. All these aspects will therefore have to be taken seriously so that these centres have a different management, a different soul, a different role than those we have known so far. I should like to end by recalling two aspects on which two agendas have been approved in the Commission and which I really hope the Government will follow up. The first concerns hotspots, i.e. the places where the first approach takes place with asylum seekers. They are places to which we have entrusted a great role in this reinterpretation of the norm without which they have ever seen to define their identity in a complete way. It will be very important, therefore, to define the ways in which, within these places, people will be managed, fully guaranteeing their fundamental rights. The second point concerns an issue on which the Government already had, in 2014, a delegation from this Parliament, namely the decriminalisation of illegal immigration, the abolition of the crime of illegal immigration. Only that measure would allow, from the economic point of view as well as the management and use of resources on the road and as regards the police and the courts to deal more effectively with the whole mechanism. We have made a new instrument available, we have made sure that it is monitored so that it really works in the direction that we have all felt it should take, that is, the effective and efficient management of a very complex migration phenomenon, without ever forgetting the foundations of the rule of law and the need to respect the fundamental human rights of any woman and any man. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u60	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the House's attention to the events that have taken place in London today. The attack on the London Parliament is an attack on democracy, civilization and humanity. It dismays the violence that strikes the heart of the British institutions that are a fundamental part of the history of parliamentaryism in Europe and in the world. To the citizens affected, to their families, to their colleagues in the British Parliament, to all the people of the United Kingdom, our full solidarity and closeness is ours. I would ask the House to observe a minute's silence over the serious events that have just taken place. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u61	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u62	Mr President, immigration is such a growing phenomenon that it requires urgent and well-defined responses, not just a bunch of measures that seem to be patching up here and there. At the cost of sounding rhetorical, we need more security and certain rules. From the reading of the provision, in fact, we learn the creation of special sections, moreover with the simple detachment of judges, which will aggravate the situation of lack of judges in civil and criminal disputes and will cause further lengthening in pending or future disputes. The procedure is as detailed as it is complex and will serve the lack of real computerization of the organization of justice, lacking in the instruments already regarding the telematic process and its hearings. Beyond the goodness exploited by certain politics, it is now understandable that it is no longer possible to welcome all these people, especially with the present presuppositions: from here to the future, there is talk of 80 million migrants to Europe. Among other things, it has a certain effect to think that citizens of the European Union can stay on national territory for a period of more than three months only when the citizen in question has a job in the State in which he stays or at least has sufficient economic resources, while an immigrant outside the EU, as is often the case, can arrive underground and remain in our territory without having the necessary resources: we are not concerned that they have the appropriate means for their livelihood and at the same time are abandoned to themselves without any control, easy prey to those who run illegal markets. Above all, I cannot understand how we can put rules against illegal immigration and then increase military spending on missions abroad, the most obvious result of which is a ferocious and bloody return terrorism and a migration, precisely, without control. There are steps, among other things, of this provision that I do not understand: as a measure of deterrent to the repeated refusal of the foreigner to undergo phototyposcopic and signal detection, it is expected that such refusal constitutes a risk of escape, for the purpose of detention at an identification and expulsion center. At that point, instead of predicting the immediate expulsion of the foreigner, who would have no reason after the assistance prepared to refuse recognition (if he is in good faith), he is simply held in the center, after which the hearing for validation starts, which involves a huge expense for the Italian State, which must: start a trial, pay a lawyer, pay an interpreter, pay for notifications and everything else (not counting the maintenance in the center itself), everything for a subject who trusts so much to go on our coasts to be saved and then does not want to provide information about his identity. It is written as if every immigrant, as an immigrant, necessarily needs protection, without making any distinction. Almost one out of every two political asylumes is given to people who would not be entitled to asylum under the appropriate treaties, but who we accept, however, amid bureaucratic delays, investigations and so on. All to feed the hospitality industry. On the other hand, nothing is said about the need for closer surveillance of refugees in reception centres, which in many cities become labour for organised crime and about the fact that in almost all cases we cannot even talk about real landings, but about rescues on the high seas, out of national waters; rescues that actually take place a few kilometers from the coasts of origin of the refugees, with a large amount of men and means. Our reception centres are exhausted, they host more migrants than they can contain, and it is hardly necessary to give them a new name and provide for the use of public facilities (which, for the record, are barely or almost never granted for the needs of the local population). We can begin the most detailed forecast possible on how to solve the emergency in our home, but when the demands of our Government at European level, as has already happened with the Renzi Government, for Europe to take on this huge problem, will be ignored again and the other States will continue to erect walls at the borders, how will we behave? We continue to use fleets as if they were ferries and ships that cost us several hundred million euros. The logic is the usual: excessive recourse to judicial control over almost every step of the migrant's reception/rejection process. But as the present experience shows, both control within the centres and judicial control, are lacking, slow and inefficient, needing much more economic resources and staff to function, with the result that they remain only on paper. The problem of the preventive filter outside the territory of the State, the foundation of the bill n. 2544 that I presented a short time ago for a new system of control of immigration, is absolutely not dealt with and continues with the relocation in the various regions of asylum seekers. In order to combat irregular migration, however, we should think above all in the long term and for this reason I felt it was appropriate to have a new system of control with the establishment of immigration offices in the countries of departure of immigrants, to be accompanied by consulates and embassies already existing: the foreigner who intended to emigrate to Italy should have to come to that office of his country and apply for a stay for work. I believe that the indiscriminate reception operations and the continued use of military ships are a serious political error that is encouraging departures from all Africa to the Libyan coasts. 20,03 p.m. (De PIN follow). It is a project that, while wanting to speed up the expulsions, does not face the heart of the problem and does not shift the moment of control that remains within our territory, with concrete risks for the safety and effectiveness of a filter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u63	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u66	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of the whole House to matters of particular importance to those who are Calabrian. In particular, I would like to point out to this House that the conflict of interest may be remembered when Silvio Berlusconi is involved, as if there were no other conflicts of interest. I am referring to the appointment that took place at the end of February for Andrea Urbani, already submissive to acta for health care in Calabria, as director general of health planning, coming to be, the same person, both controller and controlled: in Rome he will check what he will have to do in Catanzaro, in tune with Commissioner Scura. Too bad I said the forgery, because there is no connection between the Dark Commissioner and the subcommissary Urbani. So much so that, for example, Decree No. 50, the one that authorised the call for competition for the permanent recruitment of 592 professionalism in Calabrian health, was obscured by the site of the Calabria Region for which, when one goes to search, it goes from 49 to 51 as if nothing had happened. This is because, precisely, that decree, not countersigned by the subcommissary Urbani, is obviously annoying. Now, they write some newspapers (I don't know how true it is) that the subcommissary Urbani would be issued by State Secretary Antonio Gentile. Through that subcommissary, against whom they have already protested several, even for the conflict of interests of which I said, Tonino Gentile would block the work of Commissioner Scura. Now, to me, as to all Calabrians little interests this; but I am interested to know if this Government wants to make available to us those 592 professionalisms that serve to make a health care that is now in disarray chronically. Otherwise we must close all the nosocomi in Calabria, so much we are champions of sanitary emigration: it is said that the most important hospital in Calabria is outside the Region, because every year almost 300 million euros are spent on health mobility. Let us know what we have to do. Perhaps it would be appropriate to decide whether Urbani should be the general manager here in Rome or subcommissary in Catanzaro. In addition to the 592 units (undetermined work), it must be said that there are Calabrians waiting to have functioning hospitals. Maybe you don't care about Calabria, but I represent it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u69	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I am glad you're here today. By now it is a custom that I speak of the Forteto and she, having been in the City Council of Florence, knows it. This community needs to shed light on what happened. We in this House have voted on an urgent matter: every day I count and we are 57 days away. I do not know whether PD is involved or not; I hope not, in some way, because it would be a defeat. But the fact that the majority at the Conference of the Leaders does not yet schedule the discussion of the measure for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry raises a doubt but raises it. Also because there is not only the cooperative in which the facts took place, there is a whole outline of institutions that are involved, such as universities, schools, and social services. It is true that somehow, for now, they have paid the guilty, that is, those who materially committed the fact; but everything else has not. And then I wonder how we can help a civilized state to prove that it is so, if we really do not go and look at what the responsibilities are; who is it that at that time did not pay attention. There is the question of cooperative: I speak of cooperative, because that is not a community to which children had to be entrusted, but it is an agricultural cooperative, with the support of the League Coop. It is therefore necessary to understand who at that moment closed his eyes, who gave the consent to Fiesoli to do the educational project. It is necessary to know if teachers are still involved in the education of minors and to understand what project the university has been involved in, with what motivation and whether the Ministry has endorsed it. I have tabled a question today, but I hope that this House will take this matter to heart and that next week we will have a day to discuss the text for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry, starting it. Because today we are only a few months away from the end of the legislature and we know that if we do not leave in time, the truth about the Forteto will remain buried. I do not know whose fault it will be, but the majority of this House will certainly have so much. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u72	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, there has been a fact today that we could call obscene. In the House of Deputies, the majority, represented by the old parties, trenched, we hope for the last time, behind its petty and undemocratic palace privileges. In the Presidency Council, both in the House and in the Senate, the 5 Star Movement presented a very simple proposal: to ensure that Members and senators are equal to all citizens from the point of view of the pension system. The Presidency Councils should have been expressed on this proposal, but today, with a raid, the House of Deputies has been discussed and the proposal put forward by the 5 Star Movement has been hidden by a smokescreen. The vice president of the Chamber of Deputies, Marina Sereni, of the Democratic Party, wanted to hide with a small artifice what we proposed. As I said, we have proposed lifting the odious privilege of parliamentarians, who can retire with four years, six months and a day's contributions. Basically, we have asked the elected Members to apply the Fornero law: the age of sixty-seven to retire and at least twenty years of contributions. In this way, perhaps, Members would understand how unfair it is, in a pure contributory system, to have to pay 20 years of contributions. On the other hand, the House of Deputies has decided to intervene only on the old vitalitys. But how? The proposal made by the Democratic Party does not involve real and substantial cuts, but a miserable tip - this is - given to the people of this country. In fact, for a pension of 80,000 euros, it is a matter of paying 1,000 euros a year. In practice, this means that many Members will pay nothing. Let us take the example of some national champion who has lived his whole life in politics and see what will happen, how much he will pay because of the amendment approved: Massimo D'Alema, takes 5,500 euros per month and will pay nothing; Piero Fassino, takes 5,300 euros per month and will pay nothing; Gianni Alemanno, takes 4,300 euros per month and will pay nothing; Cirino Puccino won't pay anything; Gianfranco Fini, takes 5,900 euros per month and will pay 6,5 euros per month; Clemente Mastella, former Minister of Justice, takes 7,000 euros a month and will pay 138 euros a month. This is what happens with these right, center and left champions, all children of the one party! We, once in the government, commit ourselves to abolishing this filthy, hateful and incredible privilege. For the citizens of this country there is only one hope, which is the 5 Star Movement! [[Applause from the M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u75	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I will be much more telegraphic than my previous colleagues, wishing to convey to the House a rather serious fact that happened yesterday. The city of Cantù has a mayor and this is not news, it is a fact. The mayor of Cantù is called Claudio Bizzozzero, who, in a statement, defined the city of Naples as a hellish sewer. I wonder how an institutional representative can allow himself to go to such idiotic statements, which are imbued with cultural racism and territorial discrimination in line with the most bleak stadium choirs we hear, unfortunately often, when we watch football matches and especially against the people and the Neapolitan team. I am outraged - I say this to the few Members who have stayed in this Chamber during these speeches at the end of the sitting - and that is why I have asked a lawyer to file a complaint against Mr Claudio Bizzozzero. All this, however, dear President, dear few Members present, relaunches an issue that is politically relevant, beyond those that are populisms and demagogies that concern political life, propaganda and everything that follows from it; an issue that will be decisive and dominant in the next debate that will take place between political forces, between parliamentarians and especially in the territories: the southern issue, which is still a politically relevant issue. If the country is still so divided and institutional representatives let themselves go to such idiotic statements, I believe that this will be the issue that will affect us very closely in the coming years. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u78	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, all I ask, through your person, is for the reply to Question 4-06875, which I signed first. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-790.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 23 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.18 p.m.
