ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has not completed its examination of the draft law on orphans of domestic crimes. We shall therefore proceed to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2208, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2230. The rapporteur, Senator Maran, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u10	Mr President, the text approved by the Commission consists of two articles and contains provisions on the protection of public or private workers who report or report offences or other illegal conduct which they have become aware of in their employment relationship. The Anglo-Saxon expression whistleblowing - as it is called this practice - indicates an important tool in the fight against corruption that allows us to discover and, therefore, to prosecute offences that are committed within societies. The whistleblower, in fact, is a subject that decides spontaneously to report the violations of which it is aware, that they have passed, present or future. It is easy to see how this phenomenon is becoming increasingly important, especially in discovering fraud that would otherwise be very difficult to detect. Whistleblowing is widely known and regulated in the United States - for example - where, thanks to the collaboration of individuals, the Security and exchange commission (SEC), a government agency that deals with market control, has taken numerous actions against various companies, actions that have led to multimillion-dollar sanctions against the wrongdoers. The United States has long protected those who cooperate in the denunciation of fraudulent or irregular behavior, thus allowing the sanction. Several American laws regulate whistleblowing, providing a whole series of advantages and guarantees in favour of individual whistleblowers; some of these laws are also of great importance in Italy and around the world, due to their transnational character. Not only in America, there are several laws regulating this institution. Its protection is much wider and more detailed, providing a whole range of advantages and guarantees for individual whistleblowers, and it is included in an overall strategy aimed at even stimulating the phenomenon. For example, the American system also provides for robust premium measures in favour of those who report violations and offences. Although whistleblowing is an effective tool in the fight against corruption, our system deals with the phenomenon only indirectly and asystematically, and still does not find a specific regulation in the Italian legal system. The draft law under discussion attempts, therefore, to prepare a first protection for the phenomenon of whistleblowing, without pretending to achieve immediately the results of other legislation, trying to introduce improvements in the present situation. Of course, translating and translating Anglo-Saxon cultural institutions into the Italian situation and order is not always that simple. Nor is it easy to force the financial limits, and I shall also report on the opinions of the Budget Committee which rejected the idea of setting up a special fund. Specifically, Article 1 amends the current rules on public workers referred to in Article 54-a of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, while Article 2 deals with private sector workers. The reform, while confirming the principle of protection already in force, according to which the complainant cannot be subjected to measures having negative, direct or indirect effects on working conditions, presents a number of elements of novelty. The scope of the framework is extended to public workers other than employees (collaborators or consultants), workers, collaborators and consultants of public economic bodies, private law entities subject to public control, workers and collaborators of undertakings supplying goods or services and carrying out works in favour of the public administration. The provisions shall apply to alerts made in the interest of the integrity of the public administration. With regard to the possible recipients of the report, the news replaces the reference to the hierarchical superior with that to the responsible for the prevention of corruption: it is present in every public administration pursuant to article 1, paragraph 7, of law n. 190 of 2012. The hypothesis of reporting to the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) or of reporting to the ordinary judicial authority or accounting officer remains firm. With regard to the principle of protection, it is expected that the adoption of measures deemed to be retortive will be communicated in any case to the DAC, by the interested party or the most representative trade union organizations, and that the latter will inform the Department of the Civil Service or the other guarantee bodies for the determinations of competence. In this regard, it is recalled that the current rule provides, instead, that the interested party or the unions report the measures deemed discriminatory to the Department of Civil Service. In the case of a discriminatory measure, a financial administrative penalty of EUR 10,000 to EUR 50,000 shall be introduced, at the expense of the person responsible for adopting the measure, without prejudice to other liability profiles and taking into account the size of the institution to which the alert relates. It introduces the reversal of the burden of proof on the employer, who will have to demonstrate that discriminatory or retortive measures taken against the reporting agent are motivated by reasons other than the reporting itself, confirming the nullity of discriminatory or retortive acts adopted by the employer against the worker. And, if it is found to be unlawful dismissal, the reinstatement is arranged in the workplace, including by court order, in addition to compensation for any moral, economic or career damage suffered and the reimbursement of legal expenses incurred. The existence of a discriminatory measure is established by DAC, which is also competent to impose the relevant sanction. The protection of confidentiality regarding the identity of the reporting author is also modified, limiting the current derogation from the principle of confidentiality to the case where the knowledge of identity is indispensable for the defence of the accused, provided that the dispute is based, even only partially, on the alert and only in the presence of consent by the data subject. It is confirmed, however, that the rules on the right of access to acts set out in Law No 241 of 1990 do not apply to the reports in question. ANAC is entrusted, after consulting the Data Protection Supervisor, with the preparation of guidelines for the presentation and management of reports that guarantee the confidentiality of the reporting employee. There are sanction mechanisms for cases of both the absence of procedures for the forwarding and management of alerts and the adoption of procedures that do not comply with those laid down in the legislation. On this point, on the basis of the work carried out in the Commission, specific sanctions are introduced if it is established that there is no verification activity of the alerts received by the person responsible, applying to the latter a pecuniary administrative penalty from 10,000 to 50 000 euros. Medesima sanction is previewed in the cases of absence of procedures for the forwarding and the management of the alerts, or in the cases of adoption of procedures not conform to those prepared from the DAC. As it is easily intuitable, the choice to increase sanctions in cases of absence of reporting procedures and in cases of failure to respond to the reports received is due to the desire to prevent omissive conduct that would have direct effects on the functionality and effectiveness of the reporting. The application of the protection is not guaranteed in cases where the criminal liability of the reporter for the offences of slander or defamation, or in any case for offences committed with the same alert, or his civil liability, for the same title, in cases of malice or gross negligence, is established, even by judgment of first instance. Article 2 of the draft law extends to the private sector the protection of the employee or collaborator who signals illicit, through changes to Article 6 of Legislative Decree no. 231 of 2001. In particular, the rules on the administrative liability of private entities arising from offences are complemented. The rules apply to private bodies, companies and associations (including without legal personality) as well as to public economic bodies. Under this legislation, they are liable for offences committed by certain persons in the interest or for the benefit of the institution. The responsibility of the latter shall be excluded if certain conditions are met, including the adoption and implementation of organisational and management models with certain requirements. The novels in Article 6 of Legislative Decree No 231 of 2001 supplement the requirements laid down for these models. In particular, they shall include, at the expense of those who in any capacity direct or cooperate with the institution, the obligation to submit detailed reports of offences or breaches of the model of organisation and management of the institution, of which they have become aware because of the functions carried out. Alternative reporting channels, of which at least one is capable of guaranteeing, even in a computerized manner, the confidentiality of the identity of the reporting agent, as well as appropriate measures to protect the identity of the reporting agent and the related sanctions against those who violate the protection measures of the reporting agent, as well as those who carry out, with intent or gross negligence, reports that prove unfounded. The prohibition of acts of retaliation or discriminatory, direct or indirect, against the reporting agent for reasons related to the reporting. It is further specified that the adoption of discriminatory measures against the persons making the reports can be denounced to the National Labour Inspectorate, for the measures of its own competence, as well as from the reporting agent also by the trade union organization indicated by the same. Finally, also for the public sector, the nullity of dismissals or other back-up or discriminatory measures taken against the reporting agent, including changes in duties, is established, and the employer bears the burden of proof that the organisational measures taken after the reporting are based on reasons unrelated to the reporting. Many things - the debate in the Commission has highlighted this and I imagine that it will do the same in this House - can be corrected, even in the light of practical experience, but this is undoubtedly a step forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u13	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order about this measure, and I would like to point out that we believe that corruption and the violation of the law in the public administration to the detriment of the public treasury are serious crimes to be pursued effectively and decisively. However, in the name of the fight against corruption or crimes in the public administration, rules contrary to common sense and our Constitution cannot be introduced. Our Constitution provides for the economic initiative to be free, except that it cannot conflict with the public interest. With the rules approved by the other branch of Parliament - and it is a good thing that the other House is not the only branch of Parliament, as it would have been if the referendum had passed on 4 December - a warning, for example, to the National Anti-corruption Authority is sufficient to guarantee the place, for an indefinite time, to anyone who has economic relations with public administrations. Since the measure has the noble purpose of protecting those who provide elements useful to detect irregularities within the public administration and from possible retaliation those who carry out the alerts, it is expected that such persons cannot be removed in any way, even less dismissed or even subject to organisational measures having negative, direct or indirect effects on the working conditions determined by the alert. However, there is no indication of the scope of such protection. In fact, if a person reports irregularities of his or her manager, and the latter transfers him or gives him a job that is not appropriate, there are already safeguards today. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u14	Colleagues, please lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u15	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. It is written that, in any case, whatever the context in which a person makes a complaint, it cannot undergo any kind of action. Moreover, it is not clear whether it should be an individual measure and, therefore, it can also be a collective measure. Suppose that in the context of the reorganization of the offices - also provided for by the rules on the reorganization of the public administration approved in this legislature - someone is in an office that is merged with another and, therefore, probably is moved also from a geographical point of view with obvious discomfort. A person who has work near home is not happy, to be moved, to another place. Under this measure, it is sufficient for any worker who is part of that office to make an even vague alert - it may be of the type: I have heard a manager of mine mention relationships with a certain entrepreneur, who has relations, in turn, with the public administration and I suspect that that such manager may have established a relationship of corruption or concussion with this entrepreneur - to save himself and save - it is supposed - the entire office from the amalgamation and from any discomfort. We hope that there will be no inconvenience to any worker and, in particular, that there will be no inconvenience to one of the public authorities because it depends directly on the State. But can we organize the offices like this? Can we say - as it is written in the text - that the same discipline applies also to collaborators and consultants with any kind of contract and assignment, as well as to workers and collaborators in any capacity of companies supplying goods and services that carry out works in favour of the public administration? It can happen that a person - for example - of a cleaning company, temporarily employed by a company that works for a public administration, I make an alert, perhaps generic, of a possible crime against the public administration of any public administration, which may not be the one with which he works. You don't even understand how it can be applied. Does this mean that this worker must be stabilized until the judge determines the unfounded nature of his report? Here we really have a serious limitation of the freedom of enterprise. We've got a twist in the rules. Fortunately, because the Italian people wisely decided it, there is still bicameralism; we use this opportunity for good by changing, at least, thoroughly this provision. Unfortunately, I see that there have been very few changes in the Commission, and frankly - in my view - they have not been decisive, despite the good will of the rapporteur and the relevant Commission members. That is why we propose not to proceed with the examination of the measure, the effectiveness of which, I fear, is particularly evident in the private sector. There is a risk that there will be no more corruption in the private sector, because it will transfer all activities elsewhere, in other countries. It is true that there are countries with rules whose title resembles those in question, but in them the measures of the judge are often enacted in a few days. In the United States of America, a country already mentioned, if a person makes such a report that proves to be unfounded, he automatically suffers the consequences in a heavy way and the safeguards for workers in general are much less. Therefore, he loses his job. The possibility of unfounded or instrumental reports is very remote. Instead, we have some kind of stabilization. While with the new contracts of permanent employment to increasing protections, introduced by the jobs act, in practice there is no longer a strong protection against dismissal, in the measure in question there is a protection: just make an accusation, even generic, against your own administration. This, on the one hand, is unfair and, on the other hand, is likely to lead to paralysis of public offices, whose excessive efficiency I think no one has complained about, since many are laudably efficient. If, however, each step can be subject to delation or slander, which is instrumental in stabilising its place of work, even a temporary employee of an external firm, there will be no executive who will make decisions. If public managers do not make decisions, no authorisations will be given for new industrial, commercial and entrepreneurial activities or new investments will not take place either by the State or by private individuals. Other than worker protection. We risk making hundreds of thousands of jobs disappear in the name of a principle of pan-justicism which, on the other hand, should be guided by a very simple aspect: when there is a crime, it must be punished and those who report it must be protected. This should be the very simple rule that already exists to a great extent; something could probably be added through a specific measure, but not such a rule, which risks paralysing the activities of both the public administration and the private companies that work for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u16	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak during the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u19	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to Mr Malan that his speech is not a prerequisite. The rule says that retaliatory or discriminatory acts which are directly or indirectly motivated by the alert are prohibited. This is nothing more than the specification of a general principle of our legal system, already contained in Article 15 of the Workers' Statute, in Law No 121 of 1991 and, again, in the laws transposing the European directives which have imposed a series of anti-discrimination rules, which prohibit any measure that is adopted to retaliate against a lawful behaviour of the employee or of the collaborator (because the principle of non-discrimination is not limited to the sphere of employment law). So the rule that Mr Malan denounces is nothing more than a specification, in relation to this matter, of a principle that already exists in our order and that could already apply in the specific case even if this provision was not introduced by this bill. On the other hand, I call on my colleagues to consider the situation of grave embarrassment in which the employee, a public administration or a private undertaking finds himself, who, because of the performance of his duties, is aware of some news that might be the tip of the iceberg of an illegal practice, of an evil, of an episode of corruption, but may not be. The worker, the employee, the employee today is unable to proceed in any way. In fact, if, by hypothesis, the news were covered by business, office or professional secrecy (Article 622 of the Criminal Code) and it turned out, then, not corresponding to an episode of malpractice, regardless of its good or bad faith, the employee could in future be prosecuted for violation, precisely, of the obligation of secrecy. The bill offers the employee who finds himself in this uncomfortable and difficult situation the appropriate instrument, that is the reserved channel through which to communicate the news, without that the revelation can cause damage to the active subject of the obligation of professional secrecy, business or office, to an organ that will act as a filter and will be able to distinguish what deserves to be deepened and what instead has no relevance; and those who have communicated the news will be protected in its identity, in the sense that the source of the news will be kept secret, but will not enjoy privileged treatment in the working relationship. If, then, there were discrimination or reprisals, i.e. retaliations for having used an instrument provided for in the legislation precisely for this purpose, the employee would be protected against such discriminatory acts. In this I see only the improvement of a general discipline of professional, business or office secrecy, which today, on this subject, leaves an area of uncertainty, a grey area, in which all too often the indeterminateness of the rule of conduct favors a silence that arises from an ill-conceived prudence, from the fear of possible consequences. The bill aims to promote the correct behavior of the citizen, the employee, the public employee who wants to do his part even without knowing to the full what are the consequences of his revelation, but with the concern - for this reason the filter we are discussing - not to bring harm where the news can bring unjust damage to someone. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u22	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are living for the moment in a democratic country, under the rule of law, and I believe that we should try to avoid going down the slope of the police state. In our order, for the honest citizen who is faced with a possible non-compliance with criminal rules, guarantees are already provided and, of course, the procedures that can allow the loyal citizen, who cooperates with the state, the reporting of the fact and the consequent protections. We cannot accept the creation of legislation that encourages and facilitates accounting rather than improper reporting, with an overload for the judicial organisation of activities that must necessarily be punctual and thorough, because otherwise they could lead to serious injury to the rights of suspect citizens. Consequently, I can only support the question raised by Mr Malan and I am now voting in favour of it, because I believe that we still have to accept the idea that honest citizens are able to do their job without special protections which could instead lead dishonest citizens to take the path of the regulation of accounts, of revenge and of many other situations that, unfortunately, can involve the human being. A democratic country, a country in which the rule of law is established does not need such rules. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u25	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would say that from the very first lines of this concert that we are witnessing today, let us see immediately what the point is, what the term is, exactly the perimeter on which we will have to fight. I say "baptize" because I believe that, at this point, we have reached a crucial point of the general discourse that in this legislature has been touched several times, modified, worsened, and that it concerns a condition that - wanting or flying - we must admit exists in our country and that the same discourses that we have just heard manifest themselves in our culture: who makes a signal is first of all a sycophant, a deliter. Let's save all the tiritera on the name, the lack of translation and all the difficulties; fact is that in this country for those who make an alert there is immediately a definition: the delator. Meanwhile, I believe that in the words of Senators Malan and Buemi there is a big misunderstanding and that is to confuse the report with the complaint. When we talk about reporting, we talk about elements, which in English - unfortunately it is always to that language that we must refer to - are called red flags, that sort of spy events or sentinel events that, without putting in the hands of the one who observes them all the elements of an investigation, which obviously do not have the ability to build, can offer clear indications on facts that are happening. Moreover, the alert may not lead to the identification of a crime, such as in the case of Antoine Deltour, which, with the so-called Luxleaks scandal, has highlighted the tax agreements of 340 multinationals. It was not in that case a crime, but a profoundly immoral gesture, which went to the detriment of the correct taxation of many countries, including Italy, to which it took resources. Staying on the point of resources and what Senator Malan doesn't say, and what Senator Maran just mentioned when he talked about what's going on in the United States, perhaps it would be worth adding that in the United States it is precisely the whistleblowing mechanism that has allowed to recover large and important amounts of money, which had been taken away from the public benefit. The one we're examining is a bill of protection. Senator Buemi said that today the honest citizen has no difficulty in doing his job as an honest citizen: that is not true, because we are surrounded by examples of honest citizens who, at best, have found themselves paying a very expensive price. This is a behavior that involves especially young people, who arrive in a workplace believing in a clean world and when they are faced with unfair behaviors that give them the idea, often based on the idea, that underneath there is an evil or improper behavior if not even a crime, they denounce it, because they think in this way they can give help to their country. Today, it is difficult for an honest citizen to make complaints, because since there is not all the protection that the bill in question wants to implement, what happens to him immediately is to be the subject of retaliation. This is also true: we cannot hide behind the swamped speeches of those who do not admit that reality is different. Senator Buemi, the reality is different: today the citizen who works in an office today and sees his superior commit bad things, does not know who to turn to and must remain silent so as not to lose his job and family security. I really believe that those who today think that this is a measure that creates a police state, as Senator Buemi said, must not have read it and must not have taken note of all its characteristics, which in my view, as we shall see better in the general debate, should be decidedly implemented and in this sense I have tabled amendments. At this moment each of us must face the reality: with the instruments put in place so far, including Law No. 190 of 2012 and the model of Legislative Decree No. 231 of 2001, we have not yet managed to deal seriously with corruption. It is a work of prevention for which we must invoke the responsibility of every individual who composes this people, but we must also put him in a position to be sure that he does not harm his health, that of his family and his means of survival. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u28	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, unlike the previous speakers, I believe that the question raised by Mr Malan is, in addition to legitimate, in various respects necessary. Are there or are there no guarantees and protection procedures in our legal system for those who report crimes or irregularities which they have become aware of in their employment relationship? According to this proposal, there would not be or would be insufficient and lacking. If that were the case, our system - Mr Buemi is right - would by no means be that of a rule of law and our constitutional organisation would present enormous gaps and uncertainties. I do not think that is the case; I have the clear feeling that, through these measures, we are abandoning a field of guarantees and protection procedures in order to get ourselves into the slippery one and, in some respects, repugnant of the "particular" protections. I put the particular word between quotes, considering that this is not the time to submit ourselves in profiles of legislation compared between the United States of America and our country, because then the speech must invest not only the scope of the order but also the times. Senator Mussini argues that it is a matter of establishing a distinction between simple warnings and actual complaints, but what is this boundary? I do not know if Mrs Mussini remembers it, I remember it and with me, in this House, other people should remember it: at the time of the so-called clean hands there was a very brilliant entrepreneur (it seems to me that he was then CEO of FIAT), who came to the magistrates of the Milan pool with a memorial containing 70-80 names. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]] On those 70-80 names, largely subject to journalistic indiscretions, in the next 70-80 days the "benemerito" pool of Milan took protective custody measures. That was a very bad and disgusting moment in our national history. Then, if it succeeds, in the context of historical reconstruction, perhaps helped by the inevitable Dr. Senator Di Pietro, in television broadcasts to reiterate that it is one thing that is the simple reports and one thing is the actual complaints. Take, for example, Article 2 of the text proposed by the Commission. I am sorry that this has escaped a very careful colleague on these issues, such as Senator Ichino. There is talk of one or more channels that allow the persons indicated (...), to protect the integrity of the institution, detailed reports of illegal conduct, relevant under this decree and based on precise and concordant facts or violations of the model of organisation and management of the institution, of which they have become aware because of the functions carried out by the institution. I am told by regulations of this kind that the passage between Russia and the Soviet Union had already been considered. Exactly: to bring down the February Democratic Revolution and to bring about the Soviet Leninist Revolution. ( [[Comments of Senator Buccarella).]] But let me add another concern here, which I find very strange that this House does not take place, and that the rapporteur has somehow bypassed: how can this text come to this House without having passed through the Commission for justice? Mr President, there are many reasons why we should associate ourselves with the concerns and the question raised by Senator Malan in the opinion of our Group. Hence our vote in favour and our gratitude to Mr Malan for the attention he has given to this text. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and FL Groups (ID-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u31	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot believe that someone here believes corruption is something other than a snake that needs to be crushed. We are dealing with the danger, the greatest and most serious enemy of the public administration, the Italian State and the Italian people as a whole. I cannot believe that people, companies or companies or public officials who are being reported are considered to be affected when we know very well that those who report are being threatened. We've seen him even in the university world: woe to you if you show up at the contest, because your career ends! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is therefore to these people that we must give protection, to heroes who put their faces for everyone's sake. I cannot believe that it is reversed, with an artificial theorem, the role of those who must be protected with that of those who must be fought. When one crushes a snake, it certainly wriggles: let's try to make sure that the snake wriggles and not someone in here raises balances, artifices, quirks to deny the evidence. We have a pillar of the anti-corruption fight: to bring out the evil. Another pillar is that processes should be celebrated with certainty. Another pillar is that effective punishments should be put in place. The 5 Star Movement presented important proposals on all three fronts: the prescription reform and the DASPO to corrupt politicians. But here we must act on the forerunner of these possibilities, that is, on the fact that citizens are given the opportunity to know what is happening. And it is not for those who report certifying whether it is a fact of criminal importance or not, it is for the judiciary and it is in compliance with these competences that the citizen must be put in a position to say what he knows, putting to others the task of evaluating. But if he is vexed, he is put in front of a preventive muzzle and does not have the protection after they are entitled to it by law, as happens in other countries, then we block in the bud this whole chain of interventions against corruption. Not only, then, do we remain a country that is behind others on a virtuous legislation, but this country is bound to fall behind. Now we are going to vote on this foreword and we are going to reject it with determination and we will see, from this, even those who have the heart or not the good of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u34	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I am very much concerned about the good of the country and I shall therefore vote in favour of the question referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling on a measure which is merely a translation, from common law to our legislative system, of a discipline without certainties, especially for the continuity of public administration. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u35	I put the question referred by Senator Malan to the vote. It's not approved. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, on the basis of the principles set out above, I think it is good for everyone to put his face to it. That is why we are calling for a counter-proof of what has just been voted on. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Manconi (PD). That's a good idea! Borioli (PD). There she is, the face! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u38	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I voted in favour of this question because, according to our Rules of Procedure, the measure under consideration was to be examined in the Justice Commission, but from a quick check with the Commission, for the time being only by telephone, I have found that, despite the fact that administrative sanctions are provided for in the draft law by means of amendments, the latter have never reached the Justice Commission. We have therefore not been able to make an assessment of these proposals, regardless of the impreciseness of the second paragraph of Article 1, whose understanding is impossible. If you, Mr President, see the law as an impossibility of understanding. It shall read as follows: For the purposes of this Article, the civil servant shall be the general government employee referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2 (b), which is what I am reading. It's really incomprehensible. Perhaps this refers to Law No 190 of 2012, cited in Article 1. The text is all like this, it is not readable. Among other things, on administrative sanctions you teach me that there must be the opinion of the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u39	Senator Caliendo, there will possibly be a chance to correct the mistakes you yourself represented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u42	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, although I do not appreciate the harshness of Mr Endrizzi's speech, but if we do not respect the principle of legality here and if the Commission is overruled by measures relating to justice, we are the first to undermine the principle of legality. When I read things like denouncing violations of the organisation and management model of the institution in the article referring to the private sector, I wonder what that means? What does corruption and illegality have to do with it? [[Ironic applause from Senator Castaldi]] If we had been to the Justice Commission, I would have asked what the complaint of a violation of the model of organisation and management of the institution meant: why, a private employee can report a violation of the management of the institution, overtaking also the union? What are we talking about? Why did we not have the opportunity in the Commission to examine a measure, which I see now for the first time? As a member of the Justice Commission, I did not have the opportunity, which the Senate Rules guarantee me, to go into such an important subject. Not a lesson in legality! We're beginning to respect the law here. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u43	It is clear to us that the Commission has failed to give an opinion on this matter in its consultative session. Anyway, now there's a chance to do everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u44	[[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] It was assigned to the consultative body. Check it out, please. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I have now found that the amendment concerning the administrative penalty has never been received by the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u45	In any case, he is in the Chamber. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u46	Mr. President, what are you doing, appeal? But that's how you play your career. This looks like... COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, the Commission's file does not contain it. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) It doesn't say he went to the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, you don't have the floor. I told you it was assigned. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). He didn't come to us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, you're in the Chamber, Senator Giovanardi. Let us now proceed with the general debate, as I have arranged. Please, Senator Montevecchi. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you, of course, not to scale these minutes from those scheduled for my speech. I take it again: "What are you doing, appeal?" But that's how you play your career. This seems to have told Professor Pasquale Russo to Philip Laroma on March 21, 2013 in a telephone conversation. This happened inside a university, that of Florence, where there seems to have been a professor who tried to guarantee a pupil a place as a teacher in the future competition. Despite being introduced in 2012 with the law Severino, the institute of whistleblowing and therefore has been recognized the figure of whistleblower, in reality, since 2012 until today there remain some critical issues, which mean that, to date, those within the universities, with courage, intend to denounce facts of corruption, of malversation, of nepotism, still feel discouraged from doing so. In fact, before the draft law was adopted in this House, there still had to be an improvement in the protection provided for those who have the courage to denounce these illegal activities within the universities. So much so that when the case breaks out, which also invests universities of other Italian regions, including the university of my city, Bologna, the students interviewed, even if indignant, have proved resigned, just because these facts are now rampant, are normal administration. This costume carries with it a heavy load, because it means taking away from our young people all perspectives, it means taking away from our young people the future, the possibility of hoping to be able to make a career within our universities on the basis of their own merit and not on mechanisms of clientele or sonship and co-opting. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For this reason, today we are pleased that, although perfect, this text has finally arrived in the Chamber to be examined and, we hope, also approved, because this means having at heart the future of our young people, as well as recognizing the merit of the people who courageously challenge themselves, their family, their place of work, therefore their stability, in order to carry on, with a great civic sense, the activity not of spies but of signaling, of those who whistle - in the literal meaning of the term - to signal that something is wrong. I hope that this bill, which bears the signature of several of our colleagues, can end its process in this legislature and I really hope that nothing will be done to drown it, because the attempt to drown this bill, I repeat, would be the attempt to take away from many people the protection and courage to be able to denounce, which are the basis of a reclamation of certain environments, such as university, which are fundamental not only for the personal training of our young people, but also for the very future of this country, because from those classrooms our best brains come out and have the right to make a decent career based on merit and give glory to this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u47	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last a text of law that is fundamental to combat an endemic evil of our country, that of widespread corruption that has ulcerated the softest tissues of the public administration also coming to damage ganglia that with the public administration came into contact, that is, the ganglia of the private economy, because corruption, and we know this, is no longer a problem of the so-called PA, but it is a problem of all those subjects who, coming into contact with the PA, come to be infected by the diseases of the public administration itself. Now, I would remind myself that it would be appropriate to listen to those who have been fighting for a long time, for a long time, these corruptive phenomena that are, as my colleague Mr Montevecchi said a moment ago, those phenomena that make those who do not have to resign themselves. Very well, for a long time many magistrates still in activity write providing suggestions based on the experiences that they have experienced and one of the magistrates who seems to me more than others have worked on these problems indicating solutions is, for example, one of those who are not so nice either to my left, or to my right, and that is Piercamillo Davigo. [[Brusio]] I hear comments. Yes, perhaps there is someone whose sorrow, who suffers in hearing certain names, names that remind me of how necessary it is to fight for justice. When I remember the teachings and reflections very, very much loved by Piercamillo Davigo but also others, not only those who were part of the pool of clean hands but also those who in so many prosecutors, much less famous, have had difficulty fighting corruption phenomena, I remember that the problem is cultural because, as Senator Mussini said, here the report is considered by many, by too many, as delaction: what do you do, speak? What are you doing, denouncing? What are you doing, signals? So we have to put one thing in our head: corruption is an endemic and massive phenomenon and it is possible when it enjoys such covers that everyone looks elsewhere. An emblematic story precisely of this perniciousness and of this endemicness of the phenomenon is that of such Andrea Franzoso, who denounced, within Ferrovie Nord, something that did not go and that then paid dearly and bitterly this being of his loyalty to justice. It cannot be that those who denounce and report are left alone, perhaps even having to bear legal burdens, that those who are not lucky will have to subtract from the family budget in order to carry out a battle of civilization that belongs to everyone. This has been understood by legal systems that do not leave the citizens who denounce, rather they support and protect them. Also because, dear President, you teach that the person who makes an alert does not run any problem, because an alert is not a complaint, but the person who makes a complaint, which should then be found false and unfounded, commits a crime himself and therefore must be particularly analytical, precise and philological when communicating to those who owe certain things. Italy is the country of homelessness, it is the country in which it is normal for the Rules of Procedure to be violated in this House, voting, for example, for colleagues who are absent, without any problems and scandal. If we want to restore a culture of justice that is effective and solid, if we want, for example, as Senator Endrizzi said, to speak of legal certainty, we must ensure that the rules, even those that are inadequate and approximate (because the rules are daughters of us human beings and therefore often can be wrong), must be respected, on the understanding that whoever marries the philosophy of civil disobedience can also agree to go against the rule by accepting, equally, to meet the sanction provided for by those who break the rule. At the end of the parliamentary term, a text, perhaps not perfect and in some cases to be refined, which finally puts at the centre not so much who points out, but rather the need for the citizen and the worker to bring out abnormal, irregular situations and - let me use this term - bastards. This country is tired of having to remember heroes, that elsewhere they are not such because they are not alone, but they are accompanied by droves, by mats of citizens who are aware of what it is to do and report - because the term whistleblower means: the beacon - it is not at all to be delators. In ancient Athens the psychofan was a fetish and a traitor and maybe in some parts of our country, where there is a criminal culture - and you know these areas better than I do - knows that not talking is the thing everyone wishes everyone. But in some cases it is necessary to speak and, consequently, the measure under consideration comes well, beyond the prejudices, which I think have been alleged, because for how many defects it may have, it removes a critical issue, an absence that places us among the last countries in the world as regards countries that want to fight corruption. If everyone, from right to left, understood the need to promote certain battles, this would be a country where the 5 Star Movement would have no reason to exist. But if that is, it is because for too many decades this legislation has been announced, perhaps even with a tweet, and then denied. So let us finish our work and, leaving aside the controversy in this House, let us try a little bit to conclude a burden that will give us many honors, because allowing citizens to do justice is not at all silly and not even trivial. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u49	We greet students, students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico economico (Economic Technical Institute) Luigi Amabile di Avellino, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u50	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u51	Mr President, it will then be my colleague, Mrs Stefani, in the explanation of vote, who better articulates the reasons for our vote. It is a fact that this measure probably does not meet the requirements for which it was born; requirements which - it is right to remember - are a little subsidiary of the indications of the European Commission, which once again points out to us how Italy legal in the form of repression, but not in the form of preventive measures. So it's a call that has been ringed as a warning bell several times, but that we probably didn't have the ability to interpret in the right way. With the Anglo-Saxon term whistleblowing - we are now full of English terms and we lacked this too, but let's say that I have learned a new word - it indicates that phenomenon for which the individual provides information about the violation of a law, thus cooperating in the punishment of the behaviors of the offenders. It is considered to be an instrument of particular help in the fight against corruption, which, as has already been said, probably has no end in this country. This draft law provides first of all for an amendment of Article 54- bis of Legislative Decree No. 165 of 2001, which already protects the public employee who denounces illegal conduct of which he has become aware because of his employment relationship. To denounce is perhaps a strong word, but it is expressed as a good faith signal when the subject is moved by the reasonable belief that illicit conduct is taking place. The aim is to strengthen the anonymity of the individual and to protect the confidentiality of the identity of the alerter. Financial administrative penalties are provided for where the institution makes discriminatory treatment against the complainant employee. The main novelty of this measure is the part concerning the protection of the employee or collaborator who signals illegal conduct in the private sector. Here the amendment is made to Legislative Decree no. 231 of 2001. In particular, it is provided for the duty of the person in charge of the institution, as well as of the person who cooperates in any way with the institution itself, to submit reports of unlawful acts which they consider to have occurred. The rule provides for the prohibition of discriminatory measures against these whistleblowers, the violation of which involves a complaint to the Labour Inspectorate, and it is clearly null and void the dismissal and changes of duties deemed to be feedback against the beacon. These two articles try to give follow-up to the so-called Severino law, which also had contemplated article 1, paragraph 51, which provides the obligation for every public administration to have to protect the employee that illicit signals within the working environment. The Severino law set out a principle, but it did not create the tools useful for its realization. The National Anti-Corruption Authority is trying to give concreteness to the forecasts already contemplated, but it also reveals the limits of powers in managing cases of discrimination, coming to claim that it can put in place an activity for the future and not for the past. Let's see what the meaning of this bill is. Actually I didn't really find a point to this provision, perhaps because a sense doesn't have it; and I don't want to paraphrase a song by Vasco Rossi. I did not find it because both in the single text of the public employment and in labour law employees who report crimes cannot be sanctioned, fired or even mobbed and, if this happens, those who do it, properly, are punished for the crime. Those who do so, in turn, clearly commit disciplinary offences. In my humble opinion, I believe that there are already all the rules to punish offences of abuse in both the public and private sectors. Perhaps you do so in good faith - an expression that has often been abused in this provision - or perhaps, as the Lega Nord Group has already reminded you in the House, you do so in order to go to the newspapers tomorrow morning so that some of you can put your signature on it. This measure creates a strong power and an imbalance between those who accuse and those who are forced to defend themselves, imbalance too in favour of the employee or some employees. This alone shows the little goodness of the provision itself. As a result, the accused can only resort to criminal and civil law instruments. Mr President, as far as prizegiving is concerned, it is a duty to denounce: why should anyone do this be rewarded? And if the accused then - maybe a lot then - gets exonerated, what about him? He'll be massacred for sure. Mr. President, what do we do? Do we give him a prize for the malt he's been through? Also, why does secrecy not apply to those who are accused? In advance, the complainant's concept of good faith also passes. Well, I think this concept of good faith is too random. The text was miserable in the House, then improved in the Commission and in the House, but it was probably not even necessary. Mr President, allow me to make one final point. If the measure is designed to spread the culture of legality in the public and now also in private, we probably are not there. You cannot pursue this noble goal with incentives as if we were talking about solar panels. Mr President, if there were one of these measures on whistleblowers, think about what would happen in this House with Senator Ciampollo on the issue of cards. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u52	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u53	Mr President, let me make one point: in ancient Greece there was the priced sycophant or delator and not the psychophant, who is perhaps a neologism and a figure better suited to our times. Having said that, I would like to make a few observations as objective as possible. In Italy, the principle already applies today that the public employee who becomes aware in the workplace, in the performance of his duties, of an offence is obliged to denounce him. A legal text already in force states that, outside cases of liability under slander or defamation, the public employee who denounces illegal conduct, of which he has become aware because of the employment relationship, cannot be sanctioned, dismissed or subject to a discriminatory measure. This is the Severino law, which Parliament passed four years ago. The first problem posed to us by the draft law that we are examining today is that of its actual necessity. Are we doing a double? The question seems to me lawful because we could refer, in addition to the law Severino, also to the legislative decree n. 165 of 2001 regarding the public administration, to the legislative decree n. 231 of 2001 regarding the private enterprise and to the legislation that instituted the national anti-corruption authority, that had already framed the problem and given a fairly articulated regulation to this matter. In short, there are already all the rules to protect positive civicism and to punish crimes or abuses, both in the public sector and in the private sector. Secondly, the principle of mandatory denunciation of the private citizen has been introduced into this draft law. Our law does not provide that the private citizen is obliged to report the crimes of which he has become aware. If I witness a theft, I have no duty to go to the carabinieri, except in the case of crimes against the personality of the state. In the case of the public employed there is no deaction, because it is the State itself that defends and exercises a right-duty in its own interest. The private sector, on the other hand, does not have this right of duty and when it comes to the practical application of this measure, the question of its constitutionality will arise. But there is another problem with the applicability of these rules in private economic structures. It is clear that in very small companies such a rule adds a number of obligations that involve not indifferent economic burdens, so it would be appropriate at least to limit their applicability to larger companies or those using risk capital. More generally, it is difficult to accept that for those denouncing a kind of reward, while there is little or nothing to guarantee the denounced. If denouncing is a duty, why does it have to be rewarded? And for whom is he accused, if he is then exonerated, what prize is expected? No one. And if the complainant's good faith is mentioned in advance, this is too random and it is quite complicated to specify the serious legal fault. Can it really be argued that good faith is excluded only when there is serious guilt? For example, in both articles, the first and the second, what does it mean that the complainant considers it highly likely that unlawful conduct or abuse has occurred? We are faced with the reversal of the burden of proof, which is a genuine legal aberration. In short, we are grafting on a mechanism of true delaction, of secret accusation, which will not have any effect on the complainant, but which instead on the denounced will have a catastrophic effect: the slope of this procedure will prevent this denounced any kind of movement, whether career, progression (apart from personal damage). Too many times we have seen the alleged culprits subjected to media deception or court proceedings, from which they were then completely exonerated. It would also require a more specific list of offences and more appropriate instruments should be put in place to protect the accused. This bill is based on the illusion that, by encouraging delation, public ethics can be improved. Finally, the ANAC question. ANAC is in fact a judge collateral to all other judges. Today the TARs no longer count, the criminal judge no longer counts; the ANAC is able, by its own measure, to judge beyond the TARs, beyond the Council of State, beyond the criminal judge. On this too we should make a profound reflection in a system that is constitutionally based on pre-coded and pre-specified jurisdictional bodies. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u54	As announced, our work ends at 6 p.m. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-896.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.56 p.m.
