ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11:06 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 5. The rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u5	Madam President, Senators, Senators, in my report I would like to summarize briefly the contents... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u6	Colleagues, I would ask you for some silence, otherwise you cannot even listen to the report. I would pray to have conversation outside the Chamber, or in a very low voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u7	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti, rapporteur. I would like to summarize in my report the contents and aims of the DEF, which - I remember - is the programmatic document with which the Government sets out the modalities and the times through which our country and our economy intend to achieve goals in the field of growth and employment, given the constraint of the consolidation of the public accounts and according to a set of rules defined in the framework of the legislation of our country and of the European Union. To do this, allow me to start from the most relevant data of this DEF 2017: the confirmation that the growth of our economy continues and is consolidating. The document of economy and finance, in terms of growth, highlights how the gross domestic product of our country, after - as we remember - a very serious crisis that has been prolonged in all these years, has returned to growth in 2015 (by 0.8 percentage points) and 2016 (by 0.9 points); for this year the increase is expected to be around 1.1 percent. Positive contributions to this growth have come from both a more favourable international and European context and from the implementation of economic policies carried out in recent years. In some ways we can also predict an improvement in growth forecasts, given the favourable economic situation at international level, but it must be acknowledged that we are still in the presence of a dynamic of expansion that is still too modest and therefore unsatisfactory, also because it remains significantly lower than that of the most developed European countries: hence the objective of consolidating and strengthening growth already from this year... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u8	Excuse me, colleagues, but in this way we cannot listen to Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, I myself struggle. I am sorry to have to call you back, but try to organize yourselves in such a way as to get out of the Chamber, if you have discussions to do between yourselves, or lower your voices or stop talking, because with this buzz you do not understand anything. Please, Senator Warriors Paleotti, let's try again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam President. On the other hand, that of public finance, last year closed with a deficit of 2.4% of GDP, therefore slightly improving compared to the previous year, while for the current year and subsequent years a path of improvement in government accounts is expected to increase to 2.1% this year, and this improvement is due both to the effects of economic growth that will result in the period, as well as to the effects of the fiscal consolidation measures that have been implemented, and to the corrective manoeuvre defined recently. I would remind you that this maneuver reduces the structural deficit for the current year by EUR 3.4 billion and will have a regime-based effect from next year by EUR 5 billion. In general terms, it can be pointed out that in the DEF 2017 the Government reiterates its intention to continue in the wake of the economic policies adopted in the last three years, in order to get the country out of a kind of narrowness that is made of low growth and high debt stock, a narrowness in which our country has been confined for about two decades. In order to achieve this exit, it is necessary to continue to move along a transition path that is delimited by the strengthening of growth dynamics, on the one hand, and the consolidation of public finances, on the other. Some encouraging results with regard to the transition phase passed by the Italian economy have been achieved, but at the same time the way to go for the economic policy of our country is still difficult and uphill, in order to bring back the stock of the public debt in decrease in relation to GDP, avoiding at the same time to penalize a recovery that is consolidating. Looking at the support of growth, which is reiterated in the DEF is one of the priority objectives of government action, two are the levers on which action can be taken. One is private and public investment. Private investment grew for the second consecutive year, accelerating thanks to better financial conditions and increased demand, as well as well as well-targeted tax incentives. Much less well, however, went public investment, which also in 2016 continued to decline, as it has been happening for seven years now. There is therefore much to do in this field in the direction of a decisive strengthening of public investments, with priority for those concerning the care of the territory and the contrast of the hydrogeological failure as well as those in the areas of the Mezzogiorno. In order to make effective use of the resources available for public investment, which have increased in the most recent period, it will also be important, as written in the DEF, to improve the programming, design, implementation and evaluation of the works, also providing procedural certainty, indispensable for the investment activity, as well as technical and evaluation support to administrations, including territorial ones. The second lever to support and relaunch growth is structural reforms, which are key tools to be used to increase the country's capacity for growth and competitiveness. As well documented in the National Reform Programme (NRP) included in this 2017 DEF, many measures have been taken and as many are being implemented, together with the new interventions that the Government intends to make, also in relation to the recommendations of the European Union. I do not have time to make the list of economic reforms in the DEF, but I would like to recall, in the light of what has been said so far, the importance of these reforms as a driving force for recovery support and as a lever for fundamental credit and credibility towards the European Union and international markets. Efforts towards change must therefore be stepped up in order to achieve significant results at the end of the parliamentary term, especially in certain areas referred to in the PNR such as competition, work and welfare, the fight against evasion and the review of public expenditure, school and the fight against poverty, justice. The implementation of structural reforms remains the main challenge facing the Government, but I would also say Parliament, in order to increase productivity and above all the potential income of the country that, I remember, has decreased significantly in these years of crisis. Only in this way can we hope to make up for the difference that we are in favour of between the growth of our GDP and the average growth of the euro area, which for over fifteen years has characterised our position in Europe in a negative way. As pointed out several times in the DEF, it is essential for our country's economic policy to be able to combine the more general strategy of support and recovery of growth with a reduction of the government deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio; a reduction that must be credible and sustainable over time. In this respect, the DEF highlights the choices to be made, i.e. the need to achieve the planned public finance balances in terms of net debt in relation to GDP, as well as the debt-to-GDP policy ratio in terms and over the reference period set out in the same Economic and Financial Document. The return programme is certainly ambitious. The medium-term budgetary balance target is expected to be achieved in 2019, as already indicated in the previous programming documents; at the same time, a strengthening of the net debt reduction path is foreseen until the achievement of a zero balance in 2020 and the structural budget balance in both 2019 and 2020. The debt stock ratio on GDP is also expected to improve through a reduction from 132.5 percent this year to 126%, which is expected to be achieved gradually over the next three years. Overall, therefore, the budgetary policy drawn up in the DEF for the coming years appears to be rigorous and somewhat restrictive. However, they are important objectives to be achieved, dictated not only and not so much to continue to respect the European rules on debt, but even more for needs that are largely domestic, domestic. Italy, in fact, which has specific problems of growth and debt, must consolidate and bring to maturity an adjustment path in certain times, because it is foreseeable that the support of the monetary policy generously expansive of the European Central Bank and its purchases of government bonds will gradually be less in 2018 and, consequently, the interest rates on the debt soon will begin to rise in anticipation of that passage. In this perspective, the Government's intention to defuse the projected increase in VAT in 2018, reiterated in the DEF, by implementing an alternative maneuver, which for now is defined as a mix of revenue recovery measures at equal rates, through the fight against evasion, and a new push for spending review. Indeed, because of the significant size of this corrective manoeuvre, it will not be easy to reconcile convergence towards structural balance in 2019-2020 with the replacement of the safeguard clause on VAT and excise duty with other measures that avoid at the same time having negative effects on growth dynamics. In the coming months, ultimately, there is a need to regain credibility and adopt, as a result, credible economic policy measures. It should not be forgotten, in fact, that in the most recent period the spread between the Italian and German state bonds has fluctuated around 200 points. There are many reasons and certainly not only depend on our country; however, it is important to pay close attention to these developments and above all to be prepared if the markets suddenly decide to revise upwards the risk premiums. It should be added that for our country the compatibility and full achievement of these growth and debt reduction objectives will depend not only on the economic policy measures and the specific interventions that will be adopted by the Government in the coming months, but also on the decisions that can be taken within the European Union. Those decisions will be important above all in order to make it less pressing and more favourable to the maintenance of a sustained growth dynamic the path of reduction of the public deficit of our country. This will, of course, require a revision of the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact to make the application of the Union's rules more growth- and development-oriented. It is clear that in this way the tax correction required of our country could become much less restrictive and above all avoid compromising the fragile recovery in progress. It should be recalled that in the European context Italy has provided relevant proposals and suggestions for the current debate and discussion both for the formulation of effective strategies for growth and in terms of policies for stability and security of the euro area as a whole. It has done so without failing in its commitments to consolidate public finances and, above all, it has done so by deploying this adjustment process within the framework of compliance with the rules of the European Union, which, in many respects, can be criticized and tried to change, but which, in the meantime, must still be honoured. In this regard, it can be seen that there are no easy shortcuts to the complex and difficult adjustment process that is in place in our country. Surely those of those who even anticipate the possibility of an exit of our country from the euro and monetary union are not shortcuts, without of course worrying about the dramatic costs that this would entail for Italian citizens, especially for the weakest classes. But neither are shortcuts, nor are they viable, the roads of those who call for the violation of European rules to spend more through a significant increase in the government deficit. We know what would produce such a path: a sure infringement procedure by the Brussels institutions - as has already been the case in the past - and at the same time an inevitable increase in the risk premium for the subscription of securities related to our public debt on the international markets, thus nullifying any increase in expenditure that could possibly be achieved. Finally, the inclusion of indicators relating to fair and sustainable well-being in the DEF remains to be mentioned in a positive way. The Government has chosen to experimentally anticipate the inclusion of four indicators in the budgetary process: the average disposable income, an inequality index, the rate of non-participation in work and CO2 emissions and other climate-friendly gases. As we know, there is still much scepticism about the ability to measure instruments other than the traditional variables that contribute to the definition of GDP, but there is no doubt that the choice of government must be judged positively, especially in the light of the ongoing debate on the limits of economic growth that is defined in purely quantitative terms and the need, hoped for by many, to formulate what is now called an inclusive growth that can avoid and in any case mitigate the phenomena of exclusion and the strong inequalities generated by development over the last two decades. To conclude, I would like to remind you that the world economy in 2017 is stabilizing on a gradual but accelerating path of recovery, especially on the increase compared to last year. This tendency to improve the economic situation affects most areas of the world economy, both developed and emerging. It is clear that, in this perspective, our country has the opportunity to continue and consolidate growth at a more sustained pace and by this way place the debt-to-GDP ratio on a finally descending path. Of course, much will continue to depend as already stated on the choices and policies that will be adopted in Europe and that it is desirable to change in the direction of the growth of the euro area as a whole, but very important will be our choices as a country. As I said, Italy has been growing less than the euro area for 20 years, not only because of European rigour but because of structural problems that have not been addressed. We have begun to do so at this stage but the way forward is still long. Continuing on this path depends only on us. Of course, nothing can be achieved without a guarantee of political stability and the continuation and acceleration of the internal reform process. As I said, it is necessary to continue to support economic recovery but at the same time to ensure that our public finances are sound. There are no other easier ways: only these measures will help our country to seize this opportunity of expansion which I have referred to in many ways is unique and which is emerging at European and international level. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Madam President, I would ask that my speech be appended to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u10	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u11	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Enrico Fermi - Gaetano Filangieri in Formia, in the province of Latina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u12	Colleagues, I would remind you that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u13	Madam President, Mr Paleotti has said well in his extensive report: there are no easier alternatives and solutions to contain public expenditure, through an order of accounts, and trying to work, in my opinion, on the supply side rather than on the demand side, as the last governments have done in recent years. The effort of this Government seems to me absolutely identical to that of the previous Government. That is why I am disappointed by the text at our examination, which even produces further confusion - which hurts the country - in framing the situation and does not help those markets that should instead analyze, with serenity and objectivity, the real situation of the Italian accounts. In fact, the confusion between the two texts, the DEF on the one hand and the so-called maneuverina on the other (as now synthetically refers to the overall mountain of the government's economic maneuver), does not help us: indeed, it creates confusion, confuses ideas. In fact, it is not good to mix macroeconomic objectives and reforms - perhaps those to be pursued during the year - with an adjustment of the accounts necessary to avoid the European Commission's ventilated infringement procedure. Why, then, do we share two measures? Because even this Government, just like the previous one, thinks that the narrative counts more than the reality of the facts. We hope not. Instead, we hope that the confusion between DEF and the autumn maneuver will end, the real one, on which the political uncertainties and those at the end of the legislature are more affected than the established certainties of economic growth which, in spite of what the Minister says, is still timid, uncertain, and probably more linked to exogenous issues than to endogenous factors. How will today's wishes be fulfilled - this is our question -? We will see it in October, because only then will we see how the Government will actually act, where it will find the resources necessary to reduce the deficit by more than one percentage point, to put in place measures against poverty, to give increases to the states and to reactivate the contributory reductions in order to facilitate recruitment. Today we hear from the Democratic Party that VAT is not touched, but what will happen to the safeguard clauses in October? We are talking about a total of 2-3 points of GDP: a gigantic mass. Where will the Government get these resources, if the spending review, also recalled by my colleague Guerrieri Paleotti, has been depowered or even put in the attic? Taxes must not be increased, the fight against evasion is still beyond coming; how then will the necessary resources be found? Of the two: or more taxes, or more deficits (in this case with the Brussels placet, preceded by the usual negotiation on flexibility). So, at the end of the year, we're still on the score? Will we avoid new taxes? I don't think so, and the days to come are there to show us that, once again, this government will have been wrong. Today we can only say that the objectives of the Government do not convince us, not only because they are equal to those of Renzi, but because overall we are the usual maneuver to support demand (and therefore growth), which is the opposite of what we should do. We should move with appropriate supply-side measures. We would need real reforms in the area of liberalisation and privatisation, and the Alitalia case before us reminds us of the mistakes of all, the usual mistakes on privatisations, starting with the biggest of the wrong privatisations, that of Telecom. But Alitalia's is not very different, as you can see. There is still a lack of resources for investment, my colleague Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, contrary to what you, with great competence, have tried to demonstrate, because they are continually sacrificed to guarantee deficit objectives. It is certainly not a mystery that it would be necessary - for example - to strengthen infrastructure, both tangible and intangible, but we will not have that money. Therefore, starting to conclude, Madam President, thanking you for the time you have given me, this DEF brings nothing new in the choices of economic policy and the Government retraces once again a road that has been beaten for some years now, that of Renzi, which we know where it leads. Today, as my colleague has said, the end of the extraordinary interventions by the ECB is at the door. In this situation we can only wish our country every success because, if it has not had the strength to correct its marching direction in the economy with generous aid from the European Central Bank, let alone how it will be able to do so without the same aid. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u14	Madam President, Senators, Senators, in DEF 2017, the government's priority objective remains to increase growth and employment steadily, while respecting the sustainability of public finances. In this respect, the forecasts formulated are inspired by the principles of prudence that have characterized the high reliability of public finance programming. I don't really agree with Senator Bonfrisco's previous intervention. I believe that the forecast capacity is a characteristic of recent years: compared to the DEF and the budgets of previous years, which saw the forecasts strongly compromised compared to the final result, we can instead proudly claim that in the last period the forecast capacity has been good and this gives me good hope also with respect to the new DEF. Some goals have been achieved: after a long crisis, in 2014 gross domestic product grew by 10 billion; that of 2015 by 9 billion more than estimated. The number of employees is 734,000 more than the minimum of September 2013, with a contraction of the inactive, the unemployment rate, the use of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni, and benefited from the consumption, an increase of 1.3% in 2016. The deficit fell by 3% of GDP in 2014, 2.7% in 2015 and up to 2.4% in 2016, with a primary surplus of 1.5% of GDP. Does that mean everything's okay? It is clear that objectives have been achieved but there is still much to be done. Let us start, however, from these first positive considerations to express also a positive assessment of the desire to continue on the path taken to neutralize the safeguard clauses, envisaged in terms of the increase in VAT rates and excise duties, which are worth 15.3 billion. This is a courageous step that citizenship does not perceive, it does not see, because the increase has not yet been. This is, however, a huge effort worth 15 billion which certainly, if they were engaged in other certainly positive maneuvers, as has been discussed in the last few days, does not mean that they would have the same impact. I would like to stress how you plan to cover the 15 billion. And a fundamental intervention is the fight against tax evasion, which I consider to be an important point of our action in recent years. During 2016, the tax evasion recovery activity recorded a record of revenues, amounting to 19 billion. This is an extremely positive result, with an increase of 28 percent compared to 2015, which in turn represented the peak over the last decade. Therefore, in the matter of activities to combat evasion, the action of the Government is aimed not only at the recovery of revenue through the activity of verification and control, but also at the improvement of the propensity to the spontaneous fulfillment of taxpayers. This creates a more positive climate in the relationship with taxpayers' citizens. As regards the official estimate of the amount of tax revenue deducted from the public budget, the report considers the tax gap (calculated as the difference between the tax actually paid and the taxes that taxpayers should have paid under a system of perfect compliance with the tax obligations laid down in current legislation) as a proxy for tax evasion. This is also an extremely important step. The debt-to-GDP ratio continues to be a problem for Italy. The improvement of the indicator is primarily due to a development policy and an increase in gross domestic product. Attention to debt reduction is, however, also a way forward. But we need to pay attention to the easy shortcuts, such as privatisations, which, if and when necessary, still have to follow an industrial design and not emerging resource recovery needs, taking into account the fact that the public debt is about 2,200 billion, only 30 billion are the residual participations total and the companies involved are the main instruments of our industrial policy. We now come to a topic that is always close to my heart: the attention of the DEF to local authorities, to which it devotes ample space. Much has been done for local authorities in recent years. After about sixteen years, the Stability and Growth Pact has been permanently retired and has been overcome for the benefit of the budgetary balance, which ensures rapid convergence towards a stable balance of institutions' budgets. The 2016 revisions, in addition to simplifying the public finance constraints of territorial authorities, have widened the possibility of financing investments on the territory. The possibility of using the Multi-annual Fund between revenue helps virtuous entities to use resources for investment, and this must be the guiding thread of all policies for local authorities. The problem of the Provinces remains, underlined also during the hearings, which - as we have already seen and will see in the coming weeks - is addressed in the decree-law on maneuvering, which devotes resources and ample space to it. And we come to the final point. I stress the importance of having used the indicators of fair and sustainable well-being in the document when we examine it. I must say that for the first time there has been an attempt - and Italy is the first country in the European Union to do so - to systematically assess the impact of policies on different dimensions of well-being. In particular, I would like to highlight a beautiful table included, which clearly highlights the increase in the average disposable income against a declining inequality index. I will conclude by recalling an important aspect in the context of the new methods of evaluation. I am referring to a difficult subject of these years: youth unemployment and women, two very different issues. As far as women's issues are concerned, I would remind you that this DEF devotes space to the gender budget. This is also an innovative way of addressing gender inequality and, above all, of predicting its implementation within the current year. And, therefore, we will wait confidently. In conclusion, I believe that many results have been achieved in recent years. There is much to be done, also in relation to the continuous changes in the political, economic and social frameworks, but I believe that this DEF is able to continue a path. Let us courageously continue the journey together for the good of Italy. So my vote - and I hope that of so many of you - will be in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u15	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u16	Madam President, this is the last DEF that will be adopted in this parliamentary term, and it is in line with the economic policies of the last five years; economic policies that have not led to any concrete result, to any reversal of trend compared to all the values, absolutely negative, of the Italian economy. Beyond the reality that we live every day on our territory, which for us is much more significant than the numbers contained in this document, even in the texts that you have brought to the attention of Parliament we can only record absolutely unsatisfactory data. Italy is the country that grows more slowly in Europe and internationally, although there are signs of growth in the world: we have been overcome even by Greece and a country that has similar difficulties, like Spain, actually flies compared to the data related to our growth. The reduction of public expenditure is only apparent and only for local authorities. In recent years, local authorities have been killed by removing essential services to citizens, while state spending is still out of control and increasing, as is public debt as well as the deficit-GDP ratio, which still remains very high, constantly above 130%. In this sense, few change and reduction differentials are absolutely irrelevant and irreconclusive, even compared to the 20 billion allocated to support the banking system, of which more than 8.5 committed for 2017. It is also expected, from 2019-2020 onwards, to increase interest expenditure on debt, thus another worrying and negative indicator for the near future. The objective of balance has been shifted over the last five years of year and the forecast calculated on 2014 today is shifted in 2019: a total mockery of Parliament and the country. The European Commission, moreover, has asked us for an additional manoeuvre of 3.4 billion, demonstrating that we are not even able to comply with the European guidelines and parameters. And the government's choice goes in the direction of reducing public spending by a quarter of the maneuver, but to achieve three-quarters new revenue and new withdrawal from citizens' pockets. There is an uncontrolled increase in expenses to cope with the transport and reception of migrants, in the face of the government's mirage of an opportunity to welcome an infinite number of migrants coming from Africa. We have gone from 829 million spent in 2012 to more than 4.6 billion that the Government intends to spend for 2017: a real madness, an intervention that represents an economic maneuver, with absolutely irreconcilable results and consequent new flows also in the near future. These are your sad primates in Europe. There is also concern about the reform of the land register, which you want to implement - as you say - without an increase in the tax levy, but on which we have a whole range of doubts and concerns. There is no ability to cancel the safeguard clauses that would be devastating: an increase in VAT, moved in 2018, of 19.6 billion and more than 23 billion in 2019 is a real madness. You must neutralize these rules that you have introduced with the Led Government and that you continue to postpone until someone is forced to apply them. Then there is the great chapter of poverty: over 7 million Italians - ISTAT data - live in conditions of serious material deprivation; 4.4 million live in a situation of absolute poverty. The unemployment rate is now almost 12% and, apart from the number of workers who have slightly increased, the working hours employed are less. In addition, there is a steady decline in the number of self-employed workers, those who produce wealth on their own. These are very negative and worrying data. What was the government's intervention? For 2017 there was an intervention, more of an image than of a substance, equal to a billion euros. Provision has been made for the allocation of EUR 250 per person (essentially 70 cents per day) against expenditure on asylum seekers of EUR 35 per day. This is not demagogy, but it is the reality of your Government. The attention paid to the unemployment of asylum seekers is greater than that directed to the employment problems of Italians, as evidenced by an absurd agreement between the Government, the Ministry of the Interior and Confindustria to finance traineeships and training courses reserved exclusively for immigrants included in the national reception system. This is the attention you show to unemployment in our country and our young people who continue to flee Italy. Over the last two years, more than 100,000 people have fled every year in search of fortune abroad. They tend to be young graduates and people with great potential who are driven out of the country because of the government's depressive economic policies. We can only import immigrants seeking luck and work, which we maintain and for which there is no prospect in our country. Very few investments are implemented in transport, schools and public works, with chronic delays in public administration payments (the reform has had absolutely irrelevant effects compared to the needs of the country), a tax levy on companies that places Italy first in Europe and a very high tax wedge that depresses its development possibilities. For our part there is also total opposition to the extension of the application of the split payment, which takes away liquidity to the companies and with refunds that happen in absolute delay. Madam President, I shall conclude with an analysis. With your economic policies you have failed completely, you have failed to respect the parameters imposed by the European Union, which you continue to disregard, and - even more serious - you cannot guarantee economic development for the country. We need a clear and clear position and we cannot boat in the middle of two needs. In fact, you neither succeed in achieving the objective of remaining within the parameters set by the crazy cage called the European Union, nor in responding to the citizens who need development, work and a better future. There's no courage. You have condemned us to a slow agony, in a country that sinks without any hope in the future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet our new colleague, Senator Roberto Cassinelli, who has taken over the Group of Forza Italia and is among us today. Senator Cassinelli, I wish you good work from colleagues from all the parliamentary groups. [[Applause]] She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF is an important document, because it is the programmatic premise for economic measures, those that directly affect the pockets of the Italians, as we used to say until a few years ago in a not elegant but effective way. Colleagues, just the other day the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" has published the good releases of the great managers who lose - it is said - the place. The CEO of Unicredit goes away and brings home 9 million euros, while the CEO of Monte dei Paschi di Siena - it doesn't seem to have saved anything and maybe, but only maybe, has limited some damage - goes away and takes 3 million euros. In short, the pockets of the usual known are always full regardless of the results. The Mount of the Paschi was saved by the citizens, with the money of their pockets. In short, these inequalities should also be discussed in the DEF. That of 2017 could be called a generic DEF, by the same admission of the Government: immediately after its approval in the Council of Ministers, it has been said that it is a provisional plan, waiting to speak with Europe. Italy grows infinitesimally: the Government sees an improvement based on the flexibility that has been granted to us in the last two years (equal to 19 billion euros) and, if this line is not carried out, the consequences can only be negative. To grow our country will need additional spaces of flexibility and to defuse the safeguard clauses, which are worth about 19.5 billion euros since 2018, will need a maneuver in the budget law of at least ten billion euros, which will increase the deficit and will need a negotiation with Brussels. Overall, the interventions contained in the DEF appear disappointing and in the wake of the strategy adopted so far with the Renzi Government. We continue with the economic policy of the offer and, therefore, of the bonuses and the tax discounts, that they impose altogether for approximately 21 billion euros on the budget of the State. There is no credible investment strategy related to the activation of a work and environment plan. Despite the government's analysis often converges on the need for more fixed investment, a further reduction in public investment is planned (from 2.1% of GDP in 2016 to 2% of GDP in 2020). We can not talk about relaunching investments just because finally, after four months from the approval of the budget law for 2017, we will be able to issue some implementing decree of the Fund for the infrastructural participations previewed from paragraph 140 of article 1 of the fiscal law of 2017: Fund called up by the DEF 2017, worth €44 billion and €550 million and not €47 billion, as reported in the press. It is about 44.5 billion euros, coated from here to 2032. Those resources relate to interventions in various sectors and were already provided for in existing legislation: the Fund has only merged them. There is no extra money for administrations and there is no real plan for work and the environment. Even Confindustria said that in the DEF our examination lacks a plan for the work of young people. For the South little or nothing is said and neither is it intended to restore the so-called Ciampi clause, which provides for the allocation of 45% of public investment in the Mezzogiorno. ISTAT's representatives at the hearing told us that in 2016, despite the improvement in the economic conditions of households, there was no reduction in the indicator of serious material deprivation, corresponding to the proportion of people in households experiencing symptoms of discomfort. We are talking about people who cannot afford a proper protein meal, who have back bills, rent or mortgage payments and who cannot properly heat up their homes. Also according to the ISTAT this share is at 11.9 percent, substantially stable compared to the 2015 onwards. ISTAT states that families in severe material deprivation are 3,134,000, while people living in these families are 7,209,000. Further warning comes from minors, because in 2016 they result in severe deprivation of 1.250,000, equal to 12.3 percent of the population under eighteen years of age. This share is slightly lower than in previous years. Against poverty and exclusion the resources allocated still insufficient: it would take at least 7 billion euros and not the figure of 1.8 billion euros for which the Government committed itself, since there are 4,597,000 poor people in Italy, equal to 6.1 percent of families. Of course, progress has been made in the meantime: the inclusion income (REI), finally approved by law in March 2017 and then confirmed in the DEF, will replace from May the support for active inclusion (SIA), the experimental measure game last September in many cities. Another extremely worrying aspect of the labour market is the development presented by ISTAT: in young people aged between 25 and 34, only 2.5% are employed in employment centres and it is stressed that the proportion of young people who have found work in the period is lower than in the same period of the previous year (27.9 percent) and that of two years before (24.4 percent). In short, these data also confirm a situation on the labour market which is still unfavourable for this age group. The position of Article 1 is very clear: rather than relying on the economic policy of bonuses and tax discounts, all available resources must be earmarked for increased public investment with a high multiplier, so as to stimulate growth and employment and finally bring the country out of the crisis, giving priority to investments below the Community threshold by local authorities, in order to ensure faster and therefore feasible. The tax multiplier of investments is two or three times higher than the tax reduction, which is actually less than the unit. It would therefore require a net increase in investment of at least half a point of GDP per year for at least three years, to finance a major work plan and for the environment. In order to do this, however, changes must be made to the new procurement code, which, instead of simplifying procedures, has further complicated them. One solution could be to apply European legislation. Instead, in order to combat corruption in public procurement, rather than using complicated and cumbersome rules, which are only used to paralyse the system, it would be time for us to introduce the provocative or undercover agent, as is the case in the United States with more than satisfactory results and as suggested by those who fight corruption every day. This would also be the background to the fiscal compact on which the DEF 2017 takes no political position, when this should be changed in the direction of a golden rule on investment to be exercised at least within the limit of 3% or, if not, not introduced into the Treaties. It is not adequately addressed and, more generally, there is a lack of a comprehensive reform of the tax system in the name of progressiveness. Mrs Dirindin will speak on the subject of health, with the effectiveness and competence that distinguish it. We need, therefore, to reverse the course and to achieve as soon as possible a clear signal of discontinuity in favour of more expansive public policies, which help growth and investment and effectively contrast poverty and unemployment. The hope is that the drafting of the fiscal law for 2018 will overcome the generalities and criticalities that still persist in the 2017 DEF. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u19	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u20	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this DEF represents an important step forward and I welcome Mr Paleotti's report. Contributions have come from various interventions, although I think it is right to remember the conditions in which we have acted in this legislature: the country comes from a long phase of zero growth and steady productivity and a terrifying crisis has hit it much more heavily than what happened in other countries, which have managed to come out and regain the lost ground. In the last three years the country has begun to recover, to grow, to recover lost wealth and jobs and, in general, to create new wealth. However - as has rightly been pointed out - our condition is still insufficient and, indeed, we must try to take advantage of an international context that sees greater dynamism in global growth, and so also the eurozone, particularly Europe. We therefore need to focus our efforts on a whole series of interventions that have concerned reforms of the entire country system - ongoing reforms that are having their effects - and which are aimed at creating - on the one hand - redistribution of income (the largest distribution of income over the last thirty years), and not bonuses and tips, and - on the other hand - conditions for more work, even if there is no economic growth that can justify the recovery of hundreds of thousands of jobs, and social interventions with the enlargement of the perimeter of rights. As has rightly been pointed out, we now need to concentrate our efforts and push for the growth of our wealth to make that really indispensable leap forward; otherwise, the favourable conditions, which we have indicated, risk seeing ourselves in a marginal position. That is why I shall concentrate on three aspects. Firstly, I believe that we must make an extraordinary effort on the subject of investment, as has already been mentioned in more than one intervention, which I will try to focus. The other pillar on which to focus resources and attention is the intervention on the tax wedge and on the cost of labour. Finally, there is the social theme. The issue of investment is crucial. The investments in Italy remain dramatically lower than the pre-crisis levels, that is to say that 2007 marked the beginning of the extraordinary economic recession, which seems to have abandoned us only at the end of 2014. At the end of 2016, total public and private investments were lower than those of 2007 by 28 percentage points, a reduction that increases to almost 40% in the strategic construction sector. If the economic system does not invest it means that it saves and so the Bank of Italy tells us that the excess of savings compared to the investment is dangerously reflected on the balance of payments. This serious investment shortage is affected by overall demand (which is less than 8% compared to 2007), employment, labour productivity, technical progress and growth trends. The tragedy of investment becomes even more eloquent when we look at the figures for public investment. Just to name one, in 1999 public investment was at a level to which we returned twenty years later, after the peak of 2009. The decrease compared to 2009 was 35% less and this figure must be read bearing in mind that what was invested in 2009 was one third of the public investment expenditure in France, Spain and Germany. Private individuals do not invest and public investment stagnate, penalising the entire economy and marking the infrastructural inadequacy that, in turn, affects the factors of low competitiveness of the country system. If these effects are harmful, even more so are those on overall demand, if we take into account what economic research has been telling us for years about the multiplying effects of investment. I would just like to point out that the investment multiplier is now considered to be more than 2, where consumption does not exceed 0,7. It is on these two issues that we must overcome the challenge of the future, which is not only of an economic nature, but also of a political nature. Today, with a multiplier value of more than 2, we have an obligation to promote an extraordinary private and public investment support policy. It is a political challenge not to dissipate public resources and build conditions by acting and remodulating public spending within. We have moved from a total public expenditure of €781 billion in 2009 to the current €828 billion and, within it, investment expenditure has increased from €54 billion to €36.8 billion. We have current expenditure of 180 billion, which is intermediate consumption and other expenditure other than salaries, social security benefits and interest on debt, to which we must apply a reduction process in order to redistribute resources from cuts to investments. We can reason on a 5 per cent redistribution project in 2018, 10 per cent in 2019 and 15 per cent in 2020, devoting a total of 70 billion euros at the end of 2020 to investments. If we do not relaunch the investment sector, all the other measures, which are also having important effects, will not be able to free up the economic capacities and relaunch our country. We risk, therefore, losing a train that does not review and, therefore, being marginal compared to the economic recovery of the Eurozone. For lack of time I do not deal with the other two subjects (the cut in labour costs and the fight against poverty) which are contained in the intervention in written form that I ask to be able to leave to the acts. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u21	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u22	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian economy entered the third year of recovery. That's what it says in the DEF. I wonder, now, which State, in fact, refers to this consideration, because it certainly does not conform to the Italian situation. It is loudly stated that taxes will not be increased; but cutting services is equivalent to increasing them, as the same amount is paid for a worse and often non-existent service. We continue to pursue a balanced budget, reducing expenditure and investment. Citizens will have to pay for a smaller amount of services in order to remain in the European parameters, without any scientific validity - as required by the fiscal compact - as if, to ensure well-being, it were enough to raise growth estimates. The DEF pushes growth estimates upwards, but household consumption and public expenditure are always reduced. The Programmatic Document photographs a country that will still struggle to grow in the years to come and the trade balance remains almost unchanged over time: on the other hand, the rules of rigour at all costs are iron. There are no clear signs to ensure a stable and solid recovery, just think of the Italian banking situation and how it was managed. The Italian banks have been in bad shape in recent years and the collapse on the stock exchange has only highlighted a situation that is attempted to resolve with some patchwork here and there, to the detriment of the savers, who in many cases had to settle for crumbs in the face of huge losses. They pay Italian families for bad management and collusion with politics. The real problem lies in the fact that private individuals and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are no longer able to repay interest on the loans received because, although the Government claims that they are in the third year of recovery, in reality more and more families are barely arriving at the end of the month and small and medium-sized enterprises are forced to close down shop, while large entrepreneurs relocate after having, for years, benefited from substantial public aid. On the contrary, banks' administrators have unwisely lent money to politicians or large businessmen who could hardly have been returned. I wonder if, in drawing up the Economic and Financial Document, they have taken into account the more than seven million families who, in 2016, were in serious economic difficulties, in serious material deprivation and whose situation certainly does not turn to change. Small and medium-sized enterprises are now forced to pay 64.8% of their earnings. To give an example of the fantastic three years of recovery, just think that immediately after the summer Istat published the preliminary estimate of GDP showing zero growth, with equal forecast also for 2017. And I don't see how it could be otherwise. The government forecasts of GDP at 1.1 percent are anything but rosy: at least twice the percentage should be to have visible effects on an economy and a labour market such as Italy. The Government then argues in the Document that employment has increased, letting believe that entire fleets of workers have found a stable accommodation that finally allows them to live dignifiedly. Let's pretend we don't see all those young people who, so mocked by the Minister of Labour Poletti, flee abroad in search of employment; all those researchers who choose to work for another European university to give them a research grant, unlike what happens in Italy, and the high percentage of under 35 who cannot find a stable job and organize their lives from here to a year. It doesn't matter that the few jobs left are underpaid and degraded by increasing insecurity. They told us that the school-work alternation was used to combat youth unemployment and instead it will only benefit private enterprises. Students turn into cheap labour available to large companies, whose priority is certainly not to train workers to secure a stable future. The motto of this Government has always been to replace professionalism with absolutely dequalifying tasks. On the other hand, we are talking about a government that in recent days has argued that Alitalia's workers should pay for bad management: as usual, they eat on the workers' skin. Bend over the boss and choose to reduce your salary and vacation. The Renzi Government before and that Gentiloni now support the policies of the European Union on the need to flexible the labour market and reduce protection and rights in order to resolve the employment crisis that our country goes through. They robbed the workers of Article 18 and all kinds of protection. They have extended the precariousness to permanent contracts; given the green light to demand-sides; supported wage reductions and increases in working hours, after the umpteenth lack of those extra amounts for the renewal of public employment contracts (absent for eight years); while in hospitals there are more and more frequent cases of burnout syndrome due to shifts to be covered by an increasingly scarce and older staff. Or perhaps the government refers to the growth of employment thanks to the use of vouchers (which now knows what happened to them)? And so it becomes clear that the slight increase in employment, recorded at the beginning of the year, reflects nothing but the result of total or partial incentives and decontributions to companies (of course temporary) without which recruitment would have dropped drastically. I wanted to remind you that there are clearly increasing time contracts that last less than six months, confirming the fact that they want to create a system directed more and more towards the maximum of precariousness, towards the transfer of wealth from workers to the great monopolies, a true humiliation of the human person. The priority for the Renzi Government and the Gentiloni Government Silveri was to increase military spending under the pretext of the war on terrorism, to finance imperialist interventions in the Middle East. A high percentage of citizens give up treatment for economic reasons: underfinancing of health confirmed in DEF 2017. The rights that should be guaranteed by the National Health Service today are no longer so and the citizen risks paying twice for the same service. This is yet another depressive manoeuvre and for this reason Riscossa Italy supports the exit from this European lager that hungers the peoples and enriches the oligarchs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u24	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my deep concern, which stems from the total absence in the Economic and Financial Document of an emotional tension that demonstrates how and how much politics and, in particular, the Government are ready to throw their hearts a little beyond the obstacle in a situation of serious, very serious economic emergency, which finds palpable elements of spillover on the levels of social cohesion. While appreciating the intervention, as usual, by the rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, I must say that I find my concern in the statements made by the Parliamentary Budget Office, the Bank of Italy and the Court of Auditors. For goodness sake, with very sober and institutional tones, the elements of concern also come from there, from the way in which the level of deficiency is highlighted, in the Document, of elements in support of the perspectives that, sometimes even emphasized and, however, excessively oriented and driven by optimism, the Government administers to the Assembly and to the Country. A government that, in my humble opinion - I say it with respect - probably fails to the duty of loyalty, which is mainly in times of difficulty, towards a country that is experiencing situations of serious emergency. Indeed, the promise to cancel the safeguard clauses announced in the DEF does not find any actual evidence, as stated by the Budget Office. Similarly, the Court of Auditors confirms that and how much the 2018 growth target is almost halved compared to the 2014 estimates and it is not possible to predict significant accelerations even in the period 2019-2020. In this regard, the reasons for which the US agency Fitch has substantially reduced the rating of our country are clearly not unfounded, bringing it from BBB+ to BBB, giving motivation with three important elements: the structural weakness of the Government; the fragility of the banking system, which charges the weight of 200 billion deficits, and the public debt. It is worth highlighting how public spending has increased in recent years: in fact, public debt increased by half a point in 2016, reaching 132.6 percent, so the country pays over 80 billion interest payments each year. This is certainly a ball to the foot for development and the prospect of growth. Unlike what is estimated in the DEF, the debt, which is expected to be reduced to 12% in 2020, is actually expressly said by everyone that it could reach 132 percent. In this overall context, Madam President, health policy takes on a particularly worrying dimension, in which reality essentially gives us expenditure that increases, compared with a reduced GDP, with the projection of funding that will reach 6.4% in 2020, below the level of guard highlighted by the World Health Organisation. There is concern about the cut of 485 million in social policies, those in support of non-self-sufficiency, kindergartens, home care and poor families. Equally worrying is the funding for migrants, which in the extraordinary budget document had provided figures well below those that instead in Table 28 of the DEF are delivered, with more than 4.2 billion destined to the policies for the crisis linked to migrants, without taking into account two elements: the first is the emergency of North Africa; the second is the forecast that the burdens deriving from the expenses for migrants are transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Health, but without specifying that, alongside the new tasks, new resources are also destined. This, of course, poses a very serious problem in terms of the sustainability of health expenditure and public service financing. These elements, on the whole, give rise to a state of grave and profound concern, which is not reflected in the document we are considering. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u25	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u26	Madam President, within the few minutes available, I shall concentrate on the health aspect. The DEF extensors have probably forgotten the latest data on the poverty index of this country: more than four million are considered poor and about ten million at the limits of poverty; moreover, in the ratio between percentage of GDP and health expenditure, in recent years Italy has always been a taillight, if compared with other more developed countries in Europe (France and Germany). It then hits the fact that in spending forecasts, as far as the National Health Service is concerned, rather than having an increase in relation to GDP - which, moreover, increases little or nothing - the final result will be that, starting from 6.7%, as far as the health-to-GDP ratio is concerned in 2017, we will reach 6.4 percent in both 2018 and 2019-2020. With regard to expenditure cover and particular attention to those famous four million and beyond are at the limits of poverty, rather than an adjustment, in an attempt to solve the problem, the tendency on the contrary, is towards a decrease in financial cover. Then there is another aspect - which many have argued - concerning the need to improve expenditure in efficiency, quality and appropriateness. It is clear, however, that if we continue with the restriction of financing, instead of mitigating the difference between the regions with regard to the LEA and the quality of health, we could determine, especially in the virtuous regions, an action aimed at affecting the quality and the appropriateness of the benefits without remedying the containment of interregional mobility. As you know, patients often move from certain regional realities where services are not adequate, to regions where services are better. The reduction of funding will ultimately lead not to an improvement in the quality of the service but to a deterioration of the service in the most virtuous regions. In addition, greater security should be given to funding not only annually but at least three years ago. I would remind you that this year we started with a cut of over 400 million, which was not foreseen, and with the Minister's proposals on the adjustment of the LEAs and the need to give citizens the opportunity to treat themselves also for particular diseases, such as hepatitis C: an issue on which it would be appropriate to lay down a pitiful veil for how the matter was handled, and I hope that in the continuation of the discussion on the motions dealing with this matter the Government will give appropriate answers. There is also another problem with the governance of the drug that is not accurate enough on the substance. Finally, to touch on the latest events related to earthquakes, in which the inadequacy of hospital structures has been revealed, there are no resources for the adaptation of places of care in order to make them safe, as well as to ensure the humanization and personalization of care. All this makes us express a negative opinion, at least as far as the health sector is concerned, because it denotes the fact that this Government easily makes commercials, without ensuring the resources necessary to turn good intentions into practice. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u27	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u28	Madam President, the premise at the DEF 2017 opens with an employment figure: the number of employees exceeded 734,000 units the minimum point reached in September 2013, also due to the measures of the jobs act. The improvement in labour market conditions was reflected in a decline in the number of inactive people, the unemployment rate, the use of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni and the benefit of household consumption, an increase of 1.3% in 2016. But in this year's DEF there is a great and important novelty that also gives us a more precise picture of working conditions and that provides valuable indications for an economic policy beyond GDP, as advocated by experts such as Stiglitz, Amartya Sen and Fitoussi and by various international organizations, from the OECD to the European Commission. This was recalled by the rapporteur, Paolo Guerrieri Paleotti. As we know, the Government has decided to experimentally anticipate the inclusion in the budgetary process, as established by Law 163 of 2016 - voted in Parliament almost unanimously - of fair and sustainable welfare indicators. Italy is the first country in Europe to do so and has selected four: disposable minimum income, inequality index, failure to participate in work and emissions of CO2 and other gases into the atmosphere. Well, from these data it is found that the disposable minimum income indicator recovers from the crisis much more definitely than GDP per head, thanks to the interventions of the Government that have reduced the tax burden and that of the 80 euros that, we remember, are an IRPEF credit for the workers, which also affect the improvement of the other indicator, the level of inequality. Both measurements are destined to have positive indices thanks to national intervention to combat poverty, the income of inclusion, for the first time in Italy, approved by Parliament last March, which will already expand the audience of support for active inclusion and will benefit over 400,000 families and 1,770,000 people. I would like to remind you that in recent weeks the Government, Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri and Minister of Labour have signed an important memorandum for the implementing decrees of income of inclusion with the Alliance against Poverty that holds inside the associations and trade union representatives who for years have dealt with this issue: a good example of building a law with the participation of social subjects and method. And finally, the third dimension, that linked to work, allows us to take into account the phenomenon of discouragement, which has been reduced since 2015, with an improvement also of the inclusion of women in the labour market. It is difficult not to attribute these performances to jobs act and to the introduction of incentives for permanent recruitment, as well as to the improved macroeconomic environment. Madam President, many Italian citizens and citizens, however, especially young people, still have a strong perception of injustice, inequality, uncertainty about work and the future. To fill this mistrust, we need to invest heavily in active policies that must take the hand of job seekers, those who need to be relocated and those who need to strengthen their skills. This is a priority for the country, also to face the climate of populism and mistrust that also affects our economic conditions. The ANPAL, as the DEF recalls, is established by legislative decree no. 150 of 2015 and is operational since November 2016, but must be supported in its activity, also and above all by the Regions. The institutions must be close to young people seeking employment and the unemployed and unemployed, in a transparent way, without jealousy or conflict. Now all of us, the Government, the majority forces and Parliament, have a great task and a duty to implement the reforms in practice, reflected in the National Reform Plan, which we have put in place from 2014 to today: relocation allowance; school-work alternation; the setting up of all the incentives for employment; apprenticeship; training of human capital skills in Industry 4.0; strengthening of employment centres; corporate welfare and second-level bargaining strongly encouraged with the tax lever. In the DEF the results of the summary indicator of the progress of the reforms, defined by the MEF, are appropriately reported, showing growth in 2016, compared to 2015, by 30% thanks to the implementation of some very important reforms actions for growth. Let's go on this road: as Senator Guerrieri Paleotti recalled, the recovery is there, it is gradual and constant. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u29	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u30	Madam President, today in Italy the pace of economic recovery is still slow, even in the European confrontation, and the gap is set to widen. Nevertheless, the budgetary approach based on austerity policies and balanced policies continues, those same policies that have not, of course, had that much declaimed expansive trait necessary to get our country really back on track and have not even outlined a new model of development that is smarter, more inclusive and more sustainable. While on the one hand there is the Minister of the economy who points out that Italy has undergone a severe economic cycle, from which it is coming out increasing competitiveness, industrial production, investment and exports, trusting in the future growth of GDP, on the other hand, there is the information provided by ISTAT that emphasizes the following: Italian exporting companies are just under 6% of the total; Italy's share of the value of world exports decreased from 4% in 2001 to 2.8% in 2015; Italy has gone from sixth to tenth place among exporting countries. Finally, the difficulties of Italian companies in competing on international markets are particularly evident for the traditional productions of Made in Italy. Another discourse is that related to your inclusion income (the nasty copy of our citizenship income) which, given the small resources allocated and the access requirements, cannot be enough. In our country, adding the absolute poor (6.1% of families) to the relatively poor subjects (10.4% of families), we get almost 13 million people in extreme difficulty or in desperate need of immediate help. The fight against poverty and inequality must be seriously placed at the heart of economic policy through concrete maneuvers and not with media proclamations or with electoral tips that the country can and must spare itself. The reality before everyone's eyes is the one that sees this Government postpone the contract season of the public employment. The Commission undertook, on 30 November 2016, to ensure the implementation of the resources for the planned renewal of contracts, but the DEF lacks the additional amounts. The reality is that in the document under discussion the ratio of health expenditure to GDP will decrease from 6.7% in 2017 to 6.5% in 2018, and then fall to 6.4% from 2019 (a percentage never reached in the past); therefore, the alert threshold set by the World Health Organisation will be crossed, in addition to which the quality of care and access to care is reduced, but also the life expectancy of people. The reality is that the path designed for the debt-to-GDP ratio will not allow us to respect the so-called debt rule in 2017 or 2018, leaving to the next government - which will not be yours - the very high possibility of opening an infringement procedure for excessive deficits; procedure that we will then be able to charge for your bad work. In addition, the Government has also been self-enhancing for including in this DEF indicators on fair and sustainable well-being (BES), in order to monitor the evolution of well-being with values different from GDP. While, on the one hand, this self-celebration on the BES seems excessive, since only four indicators are provisionally introduced, on the other, it seems to us that the road ahead is still long, especially if it is not clear how important all the domains indicated in the last reports on the BES are. In addition, the MEF produces estimates and comments on them and certainly cannot be the only one to do so, because an inevitable conflict of interest can be foreshadowed; other actors producing similar indicators should therefore also be involved in order to ensure a proper democratic debate. As I come to the conclusion, it is time to lay the foundations for a serious overall economic policy, made up of real investments and capable of undressing that burden called fiscal compact. This will be an important year to discuss it again, but on this very important aspect the Government is silent and takes no political position on the possibility of not ratifying the fiscal compact in the European Treaties by 2017. In the meantime our country needs to be reborn and out of this dark and dark moment; it needs to regain the credibility that in the last twenty years has lost due to unholy and inconclusive internal policies and thus finally be able to restart the social elevator represented by the expectations of improvement for itself, its family and the local and national community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u31	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, this document of economics and finance also moves within the very narrow ridge between the ever-stronger desire for growth and development and the increasingly pressing need for the containment of public debt. Of course, some results have been achieved in terms of both strictness and fiscal consolidation, and even on growth it is finally estimated that the 1% threshold may be exceeded. But the rapporteur himself had to admit that we are not able to propose stronger solutions, which are truly capable of achieving some goals hoped for in our country, in terms of employment, of relaunching our production system, of innovation and of sociality. The economy will face, as the rapporteur said, the need to sterilize the safeguard clauses and to anticipate the possible increase in rates, following a different policy that the European Central Bank will have to pursue. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, the economy continues to grow little. Poverty and the middle class continue to suffer the crisis without real signs of recovery, confidence and well-being; debt continues to grow. Let's put it this way: our country is like a heavy aircraft, a kind of cargo, that in the crisis of the past years has managed to land, limiting the social and economic effects compared to other countries, despite the track was full of holes. The track was full of holes because of the bureaucracy, because of the corruption, because of the inability to produce product and process innovation, because of the lack of capitalization of our companies, because of the political instability of our institutional system. But when we take off, this freighter can't get up. This is the current moment: it seems that rollers a lot on the track at every financial, but then nothing. Looks like you're trying to take off, but then nothing on time. There's no way we're gonna make a flight out of this. This is the long history of the second Republic. There has been a lack of guidance compass to reach the target of 3% of GDP growth, the only real threshold that can produce growth and recovery. Two particular cardinal points are missing in this compass: equality and the United States of Europe. Equality, yes it is, it is still a regulatory value, current and modern. An example of all: the tax wedge. Colleagues, we have finally managed to find a common synthesis in the diagnosis about the validity of this proposal, but we are divided and uncertain about the financial coverage. In addition to the recovery of VAT evasion, a solution has been proposed, which finally found attentive even the reluctant minister Padoan: it is the web tax. Trade and economic transactions have a high tax burden on their shoulders; on the web they move the economy and live the new marketing of products, but the tax burden remains ludicrous. Ladies and gentlemen, the United States of Europe is also an important lead, a cardinal point which we have not yet managed to find room within us and in the same European public debate. As Europe is, it is not good, it is shattered, it is at risk of its end. Going back is worse, dangerous and disastrous; staying like this is just as wrong. The proposal to move towards a two-speed Europe is sterile and inconclusive, like our current economic policy. Only with the United States of Europe can sovereign debts be negotiated and an expansionary policy can be established, in which Italy will be able to free up all its potential, together with other countries with high public debt. And finally, we too can realistically try to achieve the target of 3% of GDP and the desired recovery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u33	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic and Financial Document approved by the Council of Ministers has a clear political connotation, but it is completely lacking in development policies, planning and strategies for growth and development, especially in the Mezzogiorno. On the growth and investment front, except for the resources provided for the European Structural Funds and the appropriations for ANAS and Ferrovie dello Stato, there is nothing else. Just read the attached infrastructure to realize that we are facing yet another discrimination: 119 projects in 50 cities for a total of 35 billion; great works in the South, unfortunately, come only crumbs. On the fiscal front the DEF does not plan to decrease the IRPEF, therefore leaves essentially unchanged a tax pressure now unsustainable that sees - alas - every Italian to work the first six months of the year only to pay a river of taxes, without receiving in exchange efficient services and, therefore, in fact, ending with those taxes only to finance the car of the State. The paradox in Italy, gentlemen, is that it is not the State that supports the productive classes, but it is the productive classes that support the State. Such a situation is not sustainable even in a closed market; if it can be sustainable in an open market in which Italian companies have to compete with European companies and from all over the world. Unfortunately, the expenses for the reception of migrants are increasing, because of the lack of Europe and the weakness of the Italian Government, they continue to burden almost exclusively on the pockets of the Italians. This makes our state unfair and unfair to its own citizens. This is also paradoxical: can the State allocate more to migrants than it does to its citizens in difficulty? I think of the millions of Italians in absolute poverty; I think of the earthquake victims, I think of our fellow citizens who, due to other disasters (such as the clouds we have had in recent months in Puglia), have lost or seen irreparably damaged their companies. Taxes and leaps are also increasing in a sector, such as tourism, crucial, in my opinion, for the creation of new jobs and for the development especially of the Mezzogiorno of Italy: taxes are introduced on short rents, those of bed & breakfasts; the fees of maritime state property concessions for bathing establishments and tourist accommodation are increased, even providing in this case to double the current revenue, to temporarily reduce concessions and to open - alas - the market to competitions; which, of course, will make further uncertain investments and, therefore, highly distrustful potential investors. But all the other investments, blocked by the new procurement code, corrected by the Government with rules observed by ANAC and the Council of State and which were then further corrected in 131 points, triggering mechanisms so long and cumbersome that they put at risk the time and target of spending of Community funds on which, moreover, the Government should have asked for derogations from Europe. Not to mention, then, always in the matter of contracts, the burst of derogations from the decree earthquake that, however, are producing little effect. It is, however, on the Mezzogiorno that the Government is giving the worst of itself, announcing commercial interventions that then remain only commercials: in continuity with the previous Government, which has only signed (in some cases twice) the pacts for the South programming in the budget almost all the fund for development and cohesion (about 44 billion), not only has not yet transferred even one euro to the Regions, but has also moved as many as 35 of those 44 billion to after 2019, year within which, absurdly, the same Government predicts that if those funds will not be spent back, alas, in cash. Similarly, against statements about the need to stop the brain drain, ISTAT data reveals that between 2009 and 2016 funds of 19 percent were cut at universities in the South against 12 of the Centre-North. Also on the South front, the bonus for investments and decontribution for new hires provided by the already poor South Decree, converted by Law No. 18 of 2017. Revenue Agency and INPS, due to delays in updating systems, excessive bureaucracy, contradictory rules and circulars, have so far made it very difficult for companies, sometimes impossible, to request tax and contribution reductions, although provided for by law, for investments in the Mezzogiorno and new recruits. Not to mention that in that South decree there is a mechanism for which investments in the Mezzogiorno, which currently (according to the data of the territorial public accounts published in May 2016 by the Agency for Territorial Cohesion) are around 37 percent, are destined to fall to 31 percent. On the EU funds of the 2014-2020 programming the Regions are to the year zero: not a single euro has become yard anywhere and nobody to the Government worries to create a table, a cabin of direction with the Regions of the South, in order to establish priorities of interventions, strategic works, chronoprogramma and to support them in the engagement and the expense. On the contrary, the shortsightedness of the political vision of this Government means that the regions governed by the Presidents are not aligned with the rightful party of the Democratic Party are penalized, but it is of course only the blameless citizens who lose their lives. All this would have required today not a cut, but an increase in state funding, because without its young people the South is unfortunately destined to have no future. And the future, to paraphrase a slogan dear to the former Premier, comes sooner or later. And it will come in the autumn, when we have to approve the budgetary manoeuvre, the last of the legislature, with the approaching elections in which we will be close between scarce public resources and strict European constraints, as well as between the government's predictable desire for electoral tips and the reality of the state accounts that do not add up. This will be a maneuver that will pale the maneuver by EUR 3.4 billion just launched for the correction of the accounts of 0.2% of this year's GDP. In conclusion, if you do not treasure the mistakes of the past and if you do not plan seriously the development of the country and especially of the South, from the future you will not expect anything good. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth and probably last DEF of the legislature and, as such, it offers both a prospective reading and a retrospective of the country's economic trend. Behind us are now years of crisis that have marked deep social structures that we thought consolidated and spread income conditions already very distant from each other. The scenarios set out in the document show that growth rates are still too weak, especially in the face of structural problems that are still far from being resolved. Among the many, I am thinking of public administration reform, public debt and corruption. One of the crucial issues to be addressed for a more robust relaunch of the country's growth, on which to determine also a significant reduction in unemployment that has reached unacceptable parameters for a country like ours, is undoubtedly that linked to investments and infrastructure. In this sense, in Section III, dedicated to the National Reform Programme (NRP) and with Annex III (Connecting Italy): needs and infrastructure projects (infrastructure), the Economic and Finance Document gives important elements on what has been done in recent years and on what to do for the next few years, preparing programming tools that are also useful for each future scenario. In they is rightly given account of the processes of structural reform started: from the reform of the code of the contracts, to the reform of the portualità, to the resources differently allocated in the last years regarding the past, with a clear reversal of tendency to benefit of the railways and the marine transports. It also takes into account the investments made after a long time to renew the rolling stock and the fleet of motor vehicles in local and regional public transport. Particular emphasis is rightly placed on the completion of trams and metro lines, which will constitute the rapid mass transport systems to mitigate congestion of urban mobility in the main metropolis. Unusual attention is also paid to soft mobility, with a view to more sustainable urban mobility, but also reconciling, where possible, mobility with more appropriate lifestyles, with a strong increase in urban and extra-urban cycling routes, which are certainly one of the most important innovations of recent years. Finally, and I would say finally, is dedicated an adequate attention in terms of both allocated resources, that of emphasis in the programming, to the participations and the works of kit on the alpine passes and to the infrastructures of connection or last mile between ports and airports with the main highway and railway arteries that constitute for a long time the most evident infrastructural deficit in the Country. It is a disconnect that has constituted the figure of an Italy characterized by a logic to compartmentalized ponds and has produced waste and inefficiencies, also in terms of logistic integration. In short, a season is closed, the one characterized by the objective law, in which the illusion was gone that they needed no more planning tools, but only resources to be allocated, priority works to be selected and procedures to be simplified. If the intention was easy to understand, the effects for the country were rather disastrous: multiplication of interventions, no ability to select priorities and works unfinished due to the uncertainty of procedures and the planning of available resources. The season that opens, however, is not and could not be a simple return to the past, with a rigid planning of the interventions. The same general transport and logistics plan of 2001, to which the annex is often referred, while offering a broad framework of interventions and a robust theoretical elaboration, was, in fact, too wide a catalogue of works. The present annex, which is devoted to infrastructure with the integrated national transport system, is a product of the future multi-annual programming document, which, updated from year to year, will provide a clear picture of interventions and works, depending on the analysis of mobility needs, on the basis of the actual resources available. But the change of pace will not be represented by the instruments, although appreciable and - above all - hopefully perfectable in their scientific claim, but in a strategy resumable in four drivers of action: first, to design useful infrastructures, slender and shared; secondly, to promote modal integration and intermodality; thirdly, to enhance and secure the existing infrastructure heritage; fourthly, to pursue sustainable urban and metropolitan development. Clearly, even good programming is not in itself sufficient to solve our major problems related to infrastructure and investment, but if this programming, in its flexibility and realism, could be at least a first pillar shared by the vision of a country finally normal and more modern, perhaps we could say that we are in the presence of an essential cultural leap for a country that needs to find, at least in the things to be done, elements of certainty and traceability, both for the present and for the future. In short, Mr President, we need a serious attempt to protect the action of future governments from the political uncertainty that is expected, in a truly strategic sector for the development of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u36	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u37	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF in our examination, the last of the parliamentary term, is in line with the previous ones and is therefore characterized by the continuity of political and economic choices that have not been able to restart the country. It is a document prepared with a look elsewhere, driven by the desire to give it a more political soul. The picture is therefore uncomfortable: there are no clear references and precise indications. You are too worried about continuing to imagine, rather than planning. We are talking about structural balance since 2019, but we do not take clear political positions on the possibility of not ratifying the fiscal compact. The projected reduction in debt from 2.1% to 1.2% in 2018 means that the next budget law will have to contain the measures to make effective the obligations aimed at balance of budget, with recessive effects for the Italian economy, as expected by your growth forecasts. A further reduction in health expenditure compared to the already alarming forecasts of the DEF 2016, with the inevitable consequence of the reduction of the right to health and access to care. As far as support measures for families and welfare are concerned, resources have been allocated to finance various interventions - this is obvious and must be shared - such as the vouchers of 1,000 euros for the payment of day care fees and the one-off allowance of 800 euros for the new born. As I have just pointed out, however, it is one-off aid to families and there is no structural and systemic nature that families are waiting for. It is desirable that expenditure commitments should be allocated to the financing of direct interventions to families in proven need and of a structural and non-episodic installation. For businesses, sorry to say, but there are other unknowns. The planned decontributions for recruitment are good, but companies should be given priority over their ability to create and offer jobs, otherwise the effect of the reductions is likely to be cancelled. If there is no job to offer why and how should you hire? There is therefore a need for an incentive to create work supply. It should also be borne in mind that 99.4% of the Italian production system is composed of micro and small enterprises spread across every sector of the economy, from manufacturing to services, from traditional to more innovative sectors, to excellence. It is not possible for any digital development project of our system to be excluded from this figure and it is not possible to set as a priority the maintenance of the extraordinary Italian production biodiversity. The digital transformation of existing businesses can represent a real, great opportunity for rebirth. The role of key actors in the process should be assigned to the companies concerned, giving them the same bureaucratic preferential lanes and the same resources allocated to start-ups. Then there is a strong concern about the planning of an unemployment rate of 11.5 percent in 2017 and never below 10% until 2020, while the employment rate never reaches 60% in the government's targets. We are also planning a reduction in real wages, and that certainly does not go in the direction of encouraging consumption. A great concern that I have already expressed in the Commission, at the hearing of both Minister Padoan and Deputy Minister Morando, is the following: in 2018, what will happen when the ECB, as stated in the DEF text, stops buying government bonds and thus covering public debt? In the text of the DEF it is stated that Italy must not be found unprepared; we ask to know what the maneuvers will be and how we will be ready. I am thinking, for example, of the intention to avoid safeguard clauses by taking action to further combat tax evasion, which will have to bring resources, but we do not know what time and quantity. I am now addressing a topic dear to me: the Provinces. They are practically absent in the DEF, yet we know that they are in a state of enormous difficulty. At this moment there are three provinces in disrepair and ten have deliberated the plan of financial rebalancing. Law No 56 of 2014 recognised, inter alia, the specificity of certain Provinces, but there are neither extraordinary measures in support of this specificity, nor resources capable of making this incentive structural and not one-off, so that the Provinces can plan their future. Another painful point is flexibility, a further shift in debt that will fall on future generations. In conclusion, there is and remains an undefined framework. There is no precise indication of what could continue to be the most important intervention of the next budgetary manoeuvre, i.e. the decommissioning or not - because it could be confirmed - of the safeguard clauses. It is, in a nutshell, a distorted vision of reality, which once again highlights the insufficient capacity for analysis and programming of a government forced to tell a reality currently non-existent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u38	Madam President, Mr Morando, ladies and gentlemen, five and a half years (November 2011-April 2017) are a reasonable time to plan, carry out and make conclusions. We are at your sixth DEF and unfortunately I have been able to see how your DEFs have been very approximate, unreliable and unverbly. In Europe there are many countries that have brilliantly overcome the crisis and improved the conditions of their citizens: The United Kingdom and Germany have experienced GDP growth of 11% over this period; France of 6%; Spain of 2%. Instead, in Italy the situation has become dramatic. A few days ago, the former President of the Renzi Council, in some lies, told a truth: the real theme of this moment is how to continue to move forward. In fact, I think it's very difficult to move on. All economic parameters certify the crisis that goes through our country: Italian GDP is less than 8% compared to the pre-crisis peak and is at the levels of sixteen years ago: equal to that of 2000. Italy dresses the black shirt in Europe for the lowest growth of the Old Continent: we are even behind Greece. In the last bulletin the Bank of Italy certifies the public debt to 2,250 billion euros, 32 more only in the last month, 407 more than in December 2011. And luckily, these governments had to tidy up the public finances! The debt-to-GDP ratio was 120%, now we find it at 132.6. The budget balance, which you even wanted in the Constitution, was planned for 2013, was slipped from year to year and perhaps not even reached in 2022. With regard to the employment rate, while the United Kingdom and Germany travel to 76.6 and 77.6 per cent respectively, Italy is at 61.6: ten points less than the European average. Unemployment was at 8.9% in December 2011 and, according to the latest figure, in February 2017, it is at 11.5 percent. And let's not talk about the youth one, which constantly travels around 40 percent. It is true that the last survey gives it to 35, but it changes little; probably, the decrease is due to the fact that 100,000 young people, mostly graduates, in 2015 and 2016 have left Italy to seek luck in other countries of the world. With regard to poverty, 7.2 million people were found in 2016 in conditions of serious material deprivation. The tax burden is 42.9% and perhaps this is the only thing that has remained constant since 2011, despite all the announcements. The banking system is on the verge of collapse. If EUR 20 billion had not been allocated, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena would have ended up as Banca Marche and Banca Etruria. The local authorities have denounced to the prosecutors of the Republic the impossibility to carry out their institutional tasks: many are close to the default no longer having the resources not even to pay the staff. Roads have become unmissable and bridges fall one per week. It takes at least 2.5 billion euros a year to ensure its control and maintenance and we spend just 400-500 million. Alitalia, the airline, is about to fail. Marriages have had a 15 - percent fall in the last five years. Same births: in the last year we have reached the lowest figure since the post-war period. In 2025 we will be 2 million less than the 60 and a half million this year. Immigration is uncontrolled and costs, according to the DEF, 4.6 billion euros, 1.2 billion more than in 2016. It would take hours to complete the list of disasters you've made over the years. Frankly, I wonder with what courage you're still there. You have full responsibility for this failure, not having dealt with the problems that so, so they presented themselves in the country. You have not even been able to take advantage of three extremely favourable economic conditions. The first is the cost of money. In 2016, interest expenditure amounted to 66 billion: at the 2011 rates we would have spent twice as much. But beware, because already in the fourth quarter of 2016 the expenditure on interest has ceased the tendency to decrease. The Reuters, in recent days, has declared that to ensure a voucher of the Italian treasure costs more than for the analogous titles of Russia or Indonesia. The second favorable condition was the cost of oil at 50 dollars per barrel, which saved 20 billion on the energy bill. Finally, the parity of the euro-dollar exchange rate, which favoured exports, otherwise we do not know how many other companies would have closed down and how many other jobs we would have lost. Reforms are on the brink and no major reform has reached its goal: the reform of the land register, the opening of the market, privatisations, the judicial procedures necessary to overcome the banking crisis, the spending review. This DEF is a complete disappointment. He doesn't deal with any of the country's problems. To overcome this situation it was necessary to use all available resources to support the economy, other than to give bonuses. Investment had to be supported, civil justice reform had to be carried out, the cost of energy had to be reduced for all companies and not just for energy companies, and credit had to be facilitated. It was necessary to tax recruitment in order to facilitate the entry of young people into the world of work rather than to send them abroad. The Court of Auditors noted that the tax wedge of 49 per cent exceeded the average tax wedge of 10 points in the rest of Europe. The tax burden on the house had to be reduced, given that sales have decreased by 25% since 2008. It was necessary to reduce the IRPEF at least for the most numerous households (family members), to enhance the role and centrality of the family, a true social shock absorber in these times of crisis, to introduce a new system for family allowances, to encourage birth. Finally, I wonder how long the post-earthquake reconstruction will last, since for this purpose you allocate EUR 1 billion per year and the damage amounts to 23.5 billion and not even a brick has been laid to date. The DEF does not contain any response to the problems of the Country: it is a DEF aimed at buffering the safeguard clauses through which you have postponed, over these years, the problems of the Country. When VAT comes into force at 25%, the country's economy will be killed permanently and hopes for recovery will be cut off. This DEF could have been the last opportunity to plan something useful and instead will be remembered as the umpteenth missed opportunity and the beginning of the end. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u40	Madam President, I fully agree with the reading of the DEF proposed by the rapporteur. I also share the concerns and anxieties that emerged in some passages. Thus, I will use the space available to me, even - as it were - as an official duty, to carry out some consideration relating to the chapter that the DEF devotes to the programmatic development of public health expenditure. This grows in 2017 compared to 2016 by 1.4%, with an impact on nominal GDP of 6.7 percent. In 2017, as the DEF says, the largest expenditure aggregates are actually growing, but with a more marked increase in intermediate costumes, which becomes 2.7 percent, mainly influenced by the release of innovative drugs. A few decimal places of expenditure also increase the staff aggregate, after years of progressive decline. On this aggregate of expenditure, it is paradoxically more certain the measures that subtract resources from the funds dedicated to staff remuneration than the methods of obtaining and the quantities of resources to start the long-awaited season of renewals of contracts and agreements. But the fact that raises more concerns is the forecast of health expenditure growth over the three-year period 2018-2020, as already mentioned by others. The annual average is 1.3%, i.e. about half the estimated growth in nominal GDP at 2.9%, and that is why in 2019, then confirmed in 2020, the public health expenditure ratio falls to 6.4 percent. Beyond the general indications of the WHO, already highlighted here, on the role of health expenditure in times of crisis, all certainly then to be contextualized, that I know no reliable study tells us what is the threshold of the expenditure-GDP ratio below which the pillars of equity, solidarity and universalism of our National Health Service, which I would not wish to further adjective. However, we have reliable studies of different backgrounds that agree that the necessary care of effectiveness and appropriateness to which public health has been subjected has given positive results, as evidenced by the same six-monthly report of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), but struggle to contain in not a few parts of the country, above all, but not only, in the South and the islands, worrying falls of fair access to the old essential levels of assistance (LEA), where one impoverishes for health expenses, where one renounces to cures and drugs. In front of us we have extraordinary commitments to respect, the new LEAs, the new drugs, the systematic dissemination of information and communication technology (ICT) in health. In this complex context the professional and economic discomfort of health professionals grows; yet they are in the front line that in these very difficult years have supported and supported the National Health Service. I don't say that. The Court of Auditors says that and studies by third parties. I believe, President, that this game deserves to be reconsidered; the sacred choices to promote growth and development of our economy must be balanced with policies of support to welfare everything, including health, because, especially in times of crisis, they are formidable instruments of contrast to inequalities, contribute to the fight against old and new poverty, promote the social inclusion of those who are weak or of those who suddenly become weak. This is also the future for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u41	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u42	Madam President, I greet Deputy Minister Morando, with whom I shared a flight this morning on a beautiful Alitalia plane, which you have helped to fail. Like everyone else, we will talk about it later: we too have put our own. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Don't worry, don't worry, just like someone said. Vice Minister, last week, when I went to the Commission to take the annex of the DEF related to infrastructure, the one that concerns the sector of my interest, entitled "Connecting Italy: needs and infrastructure projects" I called the Commission official to say that if they had to make a joke, this was a joke of bad taste and that we could not send around documents that should be official with certain crazy writings. On the other hand, I was told that this was really the annex to the DEF. Well, I would like with you, Mr. Deputy Minister, to bring back - as my poor grandmother said - some creativity within what I have read. It is okay to tell many inaccuracies, as is use and custom by the secretary of the Democratic Party, and to say that we will fly Alitalia on the moon and we will do a lot of things and then, in the end, do nothing, as Mr Tosato well recalled, but on certain issues we cannot joke. The report even points out that one of the priority objectives that this Government has achieved is the reform of the procurement code, which should have fixed the whole issue of infrastructure and I did not say so, but Mr Renzi. I then turn to you, who is a serious person. You wanted to delete the objective law by saying rightly (I was also present at the first reading on the reform of the procurement code) that it would be the book of dreams. And it was the dream book, because there was a long list of works that were not regularly funded and much less realized. With some exceptions, Mr. Deputy Minister, because we have areas throughout the country where infrastructure has been implemented. What are you giving us today? You have deleted the target law, so there is no more name and surname than you want and what you don't want to do. You have taken the money at your disposal and put it in a container (a little at the Anas, a little here and a little beyond) and, in a discretionary way, the President of the Council and the secretary in this case of the Democratic Party on duty, pro tempore, choose infrastructure. You cannot therefore sell as a great result the reform of the procurement code as an impulse for infrastructure in the country. Among other things, if the impulse is what we saw last week be the treatment given to Cantone (of which I am not particularly in love), this says a lot. If before the objective law was the book of dreams, perhaps now it is even worse, because, Mr. Deputy Minister, all that money made available to connect Italy, I do not know where we will get them. This is really the book of dreams, but what worries me is discretion, because we can no longer have the concentration of where we will do the works. Even so, I have read things that cannot be written, also because they could create problems at an international level. It cannot be written that one of the priority actions, on the railways, is the connection with the Swiss passes: the strengthening of the Gallarate-Rho line and the doubling of the Vignale-Oleggio-Arona line, aimed at verifying the order of priority of the interventions to be carried out within the Alps. Mr. Deputy Minister, ask Delrio, who knows why he studied it (and Delrio knows that he is now a victim): we have international agreements, for example with the Swiss Confederation, and we have an obligation to implement the operators of the Gottardo, to make ramps towards these important infrastructures. By the way, you know better than I that the Swiss Confederation has made money available to build infrastructure in our country. There is an agreement and in Bern someone asked questions, asking the Minister of Reference, Leuthard, to ask Italy to return the money, and to ask for the damages. You cannot write these things on an official document, just as they are written here. You can't write. An official may have done it, but let's at least save dignity in this country. On the other hand, what can I expect from a minister who said that he will bring iron and water care, which only rusts? The Minister is a doctor and, in infrastructure, wants to bring iron and water care: that is what he has been able to say. You wrote a half-page on the airports, which I read in full, and which could also write a transport student in the first year of the Polytechnic. The priority on air transport for this Government is exclusively the list of 38 priority airports. We have challenged this in the Commission to Mr Delrio. This point is very important, especially at this moment, when the aviation sector in our country has some problems. We cannot just say what the priority airports are, when we have been asking the Minister of Reference for three years to ask Etihad to give us the industrial plan. There is no industrial plan, they didn't deliver it to you, and how do you plan airports if you don't know what the owner of the airline does (in this case Etihad), who did the nice and the bad weather? Today we deliver to the country Alitalia under these conditions. And I want to be intellectually honest: already in 2008 we had put our own, because we made some mistakes too. Mr. Deputy Minister, this is an uncomfortable legacy for everyone, but I think we've never seen worse than what we've been witnessing in these months and hours. We are here to wait for the moves and I have a bad feeling: that those 300 million euros set aside for the Post Office will end badly and we already know where they will end up. Anyway, we'll see. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u43	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u44	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too will address, as some previous speakers have done, a specific issue concerning health protection policies. Once again we cannot fail to note a worrying lack of attention to health protection and health policies, as if health were not an important priority for Italians, as if the health system were only a cost, an expense to be contained, forgetting that it, besides contributing to improving the health and living conditions of the population, of each of us, is, instead, a key sector of the economy, able to contribute to the development of the country in economic and employment terms, as well as one of the most dynamic and innovative sectors of our economy, as all observers support. Our health system - we must remember this, because we too often forget it - has been recognised in Europe for years as one of the least expensive, because overall we spend two points of GDP less for public and private health than in France and Germany, and it is recognised as one of the most effective. Just the last report of the OECD states: "One of the factors that contributed to the growth of life expectancy in Italy is the good quality of health care for potentially deadly conditions" and this is a fact not only affirmed in recent reports, but now for many years. Nevertheless, these positive features that are recognised by everyone for our health system are failing, also due to the restrictions imposed on public health by the objectives of fiscal consolidation, which we share, but which sometimes penalise health more than other sectors, and the lack of a serious health policy at national and regional level. In fact, the recommendations of the international bodies themselves are becoming increasingly frequent, which also appreciate our system, which increasingly underline the weaknesses that are emerging in Italy. In addition to the proportion of the population reporting growing needs for unsatisfied medical care, particularly in low-risk groups, the OECD argues that we should, for example, step up efforts to use generics more and above all to benefit from possible savings in the use of biosimilars, one of the directions that, unfortunately, we have not heard recently, partly taking initiatives in the direction of exactly opposite international recommendations. I would like to focus here on another point, which has not yet been touched on: worrying is the apparent contradiction between disengagement towards public health and commitment to corporate welfare and health funds. Beyond the statements, which are always acceptable, on the protection of health, there is an implicit assault on universalism, I use the words of Martin McKee of the London school of hygiene, who spoke of assault on universalism with reference to what is happening in the United Kingdom and that happens, in the same way, also in Italy. An assault of which we are also responsible, we parliamentarians in the first place, partly because we are inattentive and partly because we are complicit in this slippery slope. In fact, we know that compared to the universal system financed by general taxation, corporate welfare is not preferable from the point of view of the general interest, nor from the point of view of fairness, because it is intended to address only specific categories of citizens, certainly not the weakest, neither the sickest, nor in terms of efficiency, because it is more expensive because of the high administrative costs and because it requires the creation of funds and extremely important reserves. However, our system is becoming more and more characterized by the increase, in my opinion, of the health funds of a company character and very often of small size, thanks above all to the push of the tax incentive that is increasing over the years. On this it would be good to open a debate and a serious and documented reflection, while the many requests that come to us also from international bodies are neglected and that ask us to give answers, through similar forms, for example, to non self-sufficiency, intervening with forms of real integration of the public offer, through non-business funds, but territorial, national or regional. 13.29 p.m. (Follow DIRINDIN). The forecast for the next three years of an increase in public health expenditure at the levels that have already been mentioned and I do not repeat it is worrying, because to reach 6.4 per cent of GDP in two years' time is unacceptable compared to the conditions in which we find ourselves, also because, as we know, the economic crisis affects health, in particular the mental health of the population and therefore requires more attention and better quality of care, but the demotivation and mortification that is at this time towards the public system does not help us to improve the quality of care. I would like to conclude by recalling two important points, which, although they do not require large investments and resources, would be useful for improving our system: in the meantime, we need to intervene on the system of partnership at the cost of benefits, and this can be done immediately, by exempting the unemployed, who are exempt only in some regions and with funds charged to regional budgets, and by providing for the gradual overcoming of the forms that make the use of the private market paradoxically less expensive than access to the National Health Service. Finally, it is necessary to monitor that the implementation of the new LEAs, which have contributed so much to the vitality of our system, takes place effectively, quickly and throughout the national territory, avoiding the economic and procedural repercussions of administrative burden on the citizens who access the services. In times of economic crisis, we cannot think that citizens will only delay the use of benefits because we are, theoretically, improving the levels of assistance guaranteed. [[Applause from Senator Guerra]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u45	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u46	Mr President, for the umpteenth time we are taking part in this unnecessary rite of the adoption of the DEF on the Stability Act. Since the appointment of stability, the country, in all its sectors, both economic, political, cultural and civil, has not moved. Beyond the usual government propaganda, positive numbers represent a marginal entity in the real macroeconomic framework: Italians know this very well and live it in their daily lives. The government pretends to believe that minimal nominal GDP growth represents a success of its policy completely in line with the model imposed by the European Commission and the ECB. The government also knows very well how the European Stability Mechanism becomes our European IMF and institutionalizes controls as the last sovereign body on the budgets of States. Why did I speak of the rite, which constitutes the tragedy of democracy and constitutional sovereignty of the Italian State? The Minister tells us, precisely in the premise of his document: The priority objective of the Government - and the budgetary policy outlined in the DEF - remains to increase growth and employment steadily, while respecting the sustainability of public finances. And this through what? First element: a more efficient, simple and digital public administration, thrifty and transparent. Parsimonious? The government continues to adopt the dogma of the so-called expansive austerity, which caused the biggest crisis of private debt from the early twentieth century to today. You are lying to the whole country: the crisis is a crisis of private debt, of shortage of demand, of endemic unemployment that you want to cope with with small electoral obula to families. What does this thrifty administration want to do in the face of what has been written on various media and newspapers? Over a million civil servants will retire in the next nine, ten years. And if we move the horizon to 15, the outputs will exceed the figure of 1,600,000. In practice, in the absence of adequate but largely unlikely replacement, we will see a real halving of the current staff of the public administration, which are already heavily undersized; however, there is no trace of this in the DEF. According to the absurd narration of the theorists of the goodness of austerity policies, the cuts in public spending would feed growth: they have been telling us for nine years now and this growth does not exist. This fairy tale, this fake historian has led to the most serious Western crisis, from which we cannot leave and the Government, trying to get out of it, injects even more poison into the system, because these are the orders. Let me quote one of the authors who best illustrated the dynamics of the consolidated state to which these government guidelines adhere in a prone and servile way: I refer to Wolfgang Streeck's fundamental essay entitled "Time gained". Our government, Minister Padoan, is buying time from international finance, clearly with citizens' money. Let us remember that the costs of this perpetual crisis are poured on most citizens and workers, so as to avoid the wrath of the markets, that is, of the debt rentiers themselves. That is why privatising - and I will stress this again shortly - means in fact continuing to finance the public system and creating even more deficits. In this sense we see just how rating agencies such as Fitch, which are directly linked to this international financial diplomacy, seek, through their reports, to influence Italian politics. We arrive then, as I have already said, to the second solution, which is the second most powerful poison that the Government wants to give to our economy and the country system: privatizations. They are not yet sure of anything, they still say nothing about the future reorganization of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and of the Italian Post Office, strategic axes fundamental for the economic policy of our country, but the Government sends continuous signals of loving senses to that business environment so dear to Minister Padoan. Who is getting rich with this model that is strangling Greece every day more should save Italy? No, Minister Padoan. Selling, thus financializing and thus bringing foreign private capital into our main driving force of control of public economic development means only subjecting us completely to the wishes of those financial and political institutions that make up the ordoliberist model of the European Union, which is the material executor of a continuous process of colonization of the States of Southern Europe (it is so, Mr. Deputy Minister): your budgetary law should therefore be read as a decree of protectorate over Italy. More and more Italians are understanding this deception, despite the maquillage that subtly provided in some measure with temporary and insufficient subsidies to give confidence to citizens and a future horizon to families, workers, unemployed and young people. More and more Italians are informed. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u47	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u48	Mr President, from a legal point of view, given the current treaties, the assumptions underlying the DEF are, so to speak, due acts, not conscious choices modulated on the seriousness of the country's overall situation and its development needs. Once again the logic of the "c" prevails, Europe demands it, which has caused so much damage in the past, not only from an economic point of view. The affirmation of populist movements that theorize the rejection of the euro is also a consequence of those rules that had a foundation before the great financial crisis of 2008, but which today are clearly harmful to an economy like ours. It is sufficient to compare the trend picture with the plan to see the minimalism of the economic policy choices that have been made in the DEF under discussion: only marginal variations in large aggregates, small improvements in the development of the budget deficit, reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio once again postponed to the Greek calends. These are inevitable consequences of the approach followed; we only hope that in September, with the Note of variation, at least the main distortions of the DEF under consideration can be corrected. What is most striking in its approach is the carelessness with which it is one of the fundamental variables of the macroeconomic framework, which alone gives the recessive sign of the whole maneuver: I am referring to the current account balance of the balance of payments, which the DEF considers positive since today, indeed since yesterday, given the same developments recorded in previous years. There is talk of a positive balance of around 2.6% of GDP, which is worth over EUR 50 billion per year. In the years of the so-called First Republic, balance of payments was the compass that guided all economic policy. If it went in red, it made monetary devaluation or a severe recessionary maneuver indispensable. In 1992 the two things were added up: the lira suffered a devaluation of 30 percent and the Amato Government realized that fiscal constraint that remained in history. But the speech is also reversible. A strong current account asset in the balance of payments shows that we are living below our capabilities. We have so much pressure on domestic demand that we entrust everything to export flywheel alone. Italy urgently needs development policies, based on the revival of public investment and the reduction of the tax burden; possible objectives only by overcoming the rigidities of the fiscal compact and allowing the public deficit to expand to the limit of 3%, which is that provided for by the Treaties and not by the regulations of the fiscal compact, which were not precisely included in the European legal order. The objection is the usual one: this increases the debt. Apart from the fact that the debt, in all these years, has increased mainly due to the weak growth of nominal GDP, in the years 2001-2008 the Italian public deficit was on average equal to 3.2 percent, while from 2008 to 2016 the average was 3.3 percent. It is therefore not the difference of a 0.1% which can justify an increase of 32% in the debt-to-GDP ratio. Comparing the same periods, nominal GDP increased by 25% in 2001-2008, while nominal GDP increased by 0.2% in the following period. Those who want to look for the causes of the progressive Italian financial degradation must not go very far: just have in mind the data I have just recalled and draw the necessary conclusions. We are therefore a country that lives below its possibilities, as is evident from the current account surplus of the balance of payments. A country that exports everything: men (the many young people forced to start abroad), goods and capital. In fact, it is clear that the current account assets of the balance of payments is nothing more than credit given abroad, the credit that is lacking in Italy and that forces many companies to make the jumps in order to continue to produce. If we do not want to drive the country out of this strait, or, worse, to offer petrol to the theorists of the euro and Europe (bad and disastrous hypothesis). But in order to do so, we must explain to our European partners the dramatic limitations of fiscal compact, its transformation into a noose that strangles the economy and feeds, politically and socially, destructive impulses. We have to say that, as long as we have an external balance of payments asset, we will continue in expansionary policies with fiscal compacts, but only with respect to the 3% limit set by the Maastricht Treaty. It is not an attack on Europe: it is an act of self-defense, it is realism. In 2017, according to Article 16 of the same fiscal compact, Europe will be called, after the five years of experimentation provided for in the relevant legislation, to insert it definitively into the European legal order, giving the regulations the legal dignity of the Treaties. We simply have to say no to this hypothesis and propose extending the period of experimentation, in order to better assess the harmful consequences of this discipline. Only the Maastricht Treaty would remain in force, which would allow Italy to have a greater budget deficit (up to 3%), a prerequisite for expansionary manoeuvres focused on greater public investment and tax reductions, to the point where balance of payments assets are not progressively re-absorbed, requiring (but only then) the adoption of stricter policies. Italy unfortunately wears the black jersey in Europe, with the lowest growth, surpassed even by Greece. The DEF calculates this difference at about half a point, with reference both to the current year and to the medium-term projection: 1%, compared with the average 1.5% indicated for the eurozone and significantly higher rates expected for the major countries in the area. The growth target in 2018 is almost halved compared to the 2014 estimates and it is not possible to predict significant accelerations even for 2019-2020. Therefore, the expected slowdowns in household consumption, on which the increase in indirect taxes would weigh, are consistent. As far as privatisation is concerned, the intention to provide for more cautious programmes for the coming years than in the past is certainly acceptable, but to the extent that it makes the Government's commitment to implementing them more credible. But the DEF does not yet provide comprehensive information on the strategy that the Commission intends to pursue. Next year, the 3% increase in VAT on consumer goods, which is currently forecast to be half as high as 1.5%, spreading the other half of the increase in 2019 and 2020. For the average rate of 22%, the levy would increase by three points as provided for in the current rules, and then only increase by 0.4 per cent and not more than 0.9 per cent the following year. Therefore, the Government has not really defused the safeguard clauses that provide for the increase of VAT, and the repercussions on families - between direct and indirect, since excise duties on petrol are found 350 million euros - will still be heavy. What, however, is totally indigestible is the political decision to put the maneuver into account to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed rather than to the multinationals of the digital economy that make profits in Italy without paying the corresponding Italian taxes. It would be enough to charge the same taxes that our self-employed and our professionals pay to those who make huge online earnings in Italy for not having to resort to the rules on split payment VAT. In short, we continue to penalise the usual known and do not lay the foundations for promoting the development indispensable to relaunch investment and consumption. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at one of the latest economic and financial documents in this parliamentary term. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to try to respond to the growing challenges facing future generations. Among these, the economic challenges are only one part; a very important part, of course, but, of course, they do not absorb the totality of the incredibly complex problems that we find ourselves and we will face in the future. We are now eight billion on this planet, natural resources are rapidly running out and it is therefore no longer meaningful to reason in purely economic, purely environmental or merely humanitarian terms. I am, therefore, pleasantly impressed by the section on fair and sustainable well-being in the DEF stability programme. Indeed, as has already been established at international level, GDP is not a suitable tool to photograph the real state of well-being of a country, because it does not take into account either the social dimension or the environmental dimension. Overcoming the traditional approach, therefore, it has been shown that well-being can no longer be measured only in terms of monetary wealth. In this regard, I would remind you that in June 2011 the United Nations Human Rights Council unanimously adopted a document entitled 'Guide principles for business and human rights'. This document sets out a set of rules of human rights behaviour both for businesses and for those States which have the task of controlling them, in order to fill the existing regulatory gap at international level, with regard to the potential negative impacts of entrepreneurial activity on the protection of human rights and human well-being in a more general sense. The response drawn up in the principles is based on three pillars. The first, now consolidated in international law, states the duty of States to ensure the protection of human rights from business activity, acting through the adoption of appropriate policies, rules and judicial measures; the second pillar identifies the responsibility of companies to respect human rights and to act promptly in the event that their activities in any way affect their enjoyment. Finally, there is a need to ensure that victims of business abuse have access to effective remedy measures. As evidenced by the commendable analysis of the regulatory framework and of the policies of safeguard in the matter of enterprises and human rights, conducted by the Sant'Anna High School, the last two principles (the second in particular) are those still not consolidated according to international law and, therefore, not comparable to the international obligations of the States. I therefore hope that this awareness-raising activity towards companies will continue, with a view to complying with these two principles, specifying that the duty to respect is an international responsibility and not an option. In order to be able to apply this concept in practice, however, I believe it is essential that the Italian Government, within the European Union, promotes the adoption of an increasingly stringent mix of measures, mandatory and voluntary, regulatory and institutional, also creating a double mechanism, rewarding and sanctioning, based on these guidelines, that is valid for all companies operating on the territory of the Union, also belonging to third countries. I therefore feel obliged to admit that my criticism of the introduction of any customs duties is not absolute. In certain contexts, they can prove to be useful instruments, although - I understand - extreme, provided they are ethically and not geographically oriented. Even for the sake of fairer global competition, I believe it is essential to facilitate virtuous companies and to censor those which, on the other hand, trample on human rights and the environment, regardless of their geographical affiliation. With regard to the latter, I would like to point out that the guiding principles explicitly recognise the duty of States to protect human rights, including by means of rules guaranteeing the protection of the environment in the field of business. In this sense, Italian practice is in line with international and European standards. However, although the European Union provides for taxes on energy in order to achieve the objectives of reducing energy consumption and increasing the use of clean energy, environmental taxation is still under discussion in our country. During the last parliamentary term, the opportunity to introduce green tax in addition to new forms of taxation was long debated, in order to preserve and guarantee the environmental balance, thus profiling the possibility of a revision of the rules on excise duties on energy products according to the carbon content, as provided for in the proposal for a European Council Directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity. I therefore call on our Government to reopen the debate on the proposal for a reform of environmental taxation in line with European legislation. In this sense, the document recently produced by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea - I am referring to the catalogue of environmentally harmful subsidies and environmentally favourable subsidies - which lists with extreme detail all types of subsidies relating to the environment. These are exemptions and reductions in excise duties or VAT which amount to more than EUR 16 billion per year for environmentally harmful subsidies (SADs). Within these, the Cuban energy excise duty alone is EUR 3.4 billion. That is why I believe that we need a concrete commitment from the Government on this issue. I shall conclude by moving from global issues to extremely local issues, but not least for this reason. If I am impressed with the ethical indicators, the figures for the situation of local authorities have raised a deep concern in me. Revenue is down by 2.3% compared to the previous year. So I want to take this opportunity to make myself spokesperson for the enormous difficulties that local administrators are facing not only in my region, Lombardy, but throughout the country. As shown by the above data, in the face of a drastic reduction in revenues, the municipalities are burdened more and more, from the management of a dignified reception of migrants to the responsibility, also economic, of the children taken away from their families from the courts. I hope, therefore, that in the next budgetary manoeuvre we can and will do more, because without concrete support to our territories fair and sustainable development at global level is really impossible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF is a comprehensive and extremely complex document, which contains the policy guidelines for policy, economic and fiscal policy that affect all sectors across the board. My speech will focus on what is within the competence of the Commission for Public Education, Cultural Heritage, of which I am a member and which has been examined by it. I would like to focus in particular on the world of school, an area considered as a priority during this parliamentary term, especially with regard to two issues that are dealt with in a significant way. I am referring to the implementation of Law No 107 of 13 July 2015, which has recently approved eight implementing decrees in full compliance with the timetable laid down in it, as well as to the interventions on school construction, also in the light of the urgent needs of the four regions affected by the earthquake. The aim of Law 107 is to intervene on the regulatory and organizational aspect, to make the school more modern and able to provide an education that is in line with current needs, with a view to the inclusion of Italian students in the world of work and, more generally, in the social context. I stress that of the nine decrees envisaged one is missing, relating to a single text on school legislation, which replaces the current regulatory system that has seen over the years overlapping and stratification laws, regulations and circulars that make the teaching and administrative management of school activity really complex. I therefore think it is urgent that this ninth implementing decree should also be adopted quickly. In particular, Chapter III of Section I of the DEF takes into account the measures taken to prevent seismic risk, geological instability and the safety of schools. It is noted that the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers are being issued to share the multi-annual investment fund established by the Budget Act, of which the share of EUR 500 million will be allocated in 2017 for the safety of schools and public offices and to prevent seismic risk. The appropriations for the implementation of Law No 107 of 2015, amounting to EUR 2.25 billion in 2017 and EUR 0.3 billion in 2018 are summarised and then, again, for the extension of the teaching staff, amounting to EUR 0.7 billion in 2017 and EUR 0.2 billion in 2018. In addition, a total of €0.2 billion is allocated for 2017 and €0.5 billion is allocated for each year of the three-year period 2018-2020 for the University's ordinary funding fund, for the Joint Research Fund and for the right to study. The Commission, while expressing appreciation for these forecasts, stressed that additional resources should be allocated to the research sector in subsequent years, being a sector of primary importance not so much and not only for training, but more generally for the country's competitiveness. The third section highlights the reform strategy for the last part of the legislature, illustrating the phases already implemented and those still to be implemented and in particular: the completion of the good school with the monitoring of effectiveness, by 2017; the National Plan for Teacher Training, in the period 2016-2019; the completion of the National Plan for Digital School, in the period 2015-2018; the National Plan for Inclusive School, by April 2017; the National Programme for Research 2015-2020. The reform of public research bodies, implemented by Legislative Decree No. 218 of 2016 and the actions related to active labour policies, is also mentioned: in this regard, it is considered important the contribution relief for companies engaged in the recruitment of students in alternating school-work. In addition, in October 2016 the National Plan for Teacher Training was launched, which provides for a higher quality of training courses. The document also mentions the beginning of the process for the renewal of national contracts for school staff and for the conduct of competitions for school executives and director of administrative services, the latter initiative of extreme urgency, given the high number of regencies currently in place, destined for a further increase in the next school year. It is undeniable that school activity is compromised both from a didactic and organizational point of view when an executive has to divide between several educational institutions very often located in different municipalities. Certainly interesting is the implementation of the National Digital School Plan, launched in October 2015, for which an investment of 500 million euros has been launched so far, against an allocation of 1.1 billion euros. The DEF also pays particular attention to school inclusion and the need to reduce school dispersal, combat bullying and cyberbullying and prevent youth discomfort. In this context, the plan for a more open, inclusive and innovative school has been launched, with the extension of opening hours, with the enhancement of alternation, with investments in skills, digital school and training. A total of 10 types of initiatives are planned for an appropriation of €840 million. In particular, the interventions concern: basic skills, for 180 million euros; global citizenship skills, for 120 million euros; European citizenship, for 80 million euros; cultural, artistic and landscape heritage, for 80 million euros; digital citizenship and creativity, for 80 million euros; integration and reception, for 50 million euros; entrepreneurship education, for 50 million euros; orientation, for 40 million euros; school-work alternation, for 140 million euros; continuing adult training, for 10 million euros. For the school-work alternation it is worth highlighting the significant percentage shift of schools with alternating projects from 54 per cent of the school year 2015-2016, to 96 per cent of this year, with an increase of 139 per cent in the number of participating students, 41 per cent of host enterprises and 154 per cent of active alternation routes. With regard to universities and research, the DEF illustrates the main measures undertaken in the context of the National Research Programme (NRP) 2015-2020; tax credit for investment in research and development has been extended to the whole of 2020, with an increase in the annual maximum amount. Specifically with regard to the university, it is noted that the Anvur has updated the evaluation of the quality of the research in order to allow to use the data for the repartition of the premiary contributions to the universities. There are also measures introduced by the 2017 Budget Law, including the no-tax area for university students until the first year off course, the extension of the audience of students who benefit from tax discounts, the increase of resources for the right to study, the establishment of grants of merit for students in situations of economic hardship: investments, therefore, to extend university education in the Italian youth population. In its opinion, the Commission also called for the importance of the rapid adoption of draft law No 322 on the statisation of former tied musical institutions. In this connection, it again called for the provision of an appropriate appropriation to allow the establishment of such institutions, to be combined with the reorder provided for in the above-mentioned draft law. In addition, the Commission has recommended the urgent implementation of measures in favour of areas affected by the earthquake, particularly as regards the restoration of school functionality and the preservation of cultural heritage. There is also a need to ensure certain time limits for the use of resources for school construction, with a view to upgrading the building stock from the point of view of safety and adaptability. For the culture sector, the Commission considers it necessary to ensure adequate support for bill No 2287 bis on live performance, already linked to the 2016 public finance maneuver and being examined by the Commission. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u51	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u52	Mr President, I would begin by saying that the first request to the Government would be to withdraw this DEF, on which we absolutely do not agree because, like all the DEFs presented in recent years, it is still based on an economic model of reference to which we do not look as a healthy model (and indeed we see Italy as it is going). Before I go into the substance of this maneuver, I would stress two institutional swerves that I have found very regrettable. The first is towards Parliament: I am talking about the so-called maneuver. The government presented us with a DEF in which the corrective effects of the labour force, i.e. the decree-law, were already included in the programme framework. The latter was approved in the Council of Ministers on 11 April and was published in the Official Journal only on 24 April. This did not give Parliament the opportunity to take a look at the maneuver during all the work of the DEF, yet the corrective effects were already included in the policy framework. I find this not only an institutional scorn, but almost an insult to Parliament. The second institutional scorn is not towards Parliament but towards all those bodies to which the previous Government, in view of the constitutional referendum on 4 December, had already decimated both financial and human resources, and in this DEF there is absolutely no reference to the desire to restore the functionality of these bodies that still exist, because the referendum did not have the outcome that the Government hoped. So I was hoping to see you at least a hint inside the DEF. I think that this is really an institutional scorn for all the people who are still working in these bodies. On the subject of the maneuver, I think it is important to stress investment. This maneuver is not based on real investments, but once again on mere accounting mechanisms, and instead Italy needs real investments. Moreover, we have continued redeployment of resources: this means that money is always the same, but it is taken, moved from one side to the other, and with the same money different things are done. I'd like to understand how, by relocating resources, you can do the same things. I find it really difficult, which I assume means that many things that were done before will be cut, because money obviously cannot be enough for everything. In addition, many public interventions are called for in this DEF: the document always puts the emphasis on public interventions, but if we go to read we see that everything is focused on private investments. In fact, how is the maneuver financed? First of all, it is financed by subtracting liquidity from companies, most likely by creating a problem with VAT credit. I am, of course, talking about the split payment, which subtracts resources from small and medium-sized enterprises: in fact, if the State pays VAT directly to the Treasury, companies will obviously no longer have that revenue. But as payments by public administrations are already behind schedule, if, in addition to this, the amount of VAT is also taken away from companies, obviously the financial resources of small and medium-sized enterprises will be even smaller. Moreover, there is the problem of VAT credit, which the State has not specified how it will solve. How are the DEF's interventions financed again? They are financed by local authorities. The local authorities in these years have been harassed in any way; in fact, tax autonomy has been removed from them, which I sincerely hope in this DEF will be returned to them, at least to a very small extent. In addition, there are no local investments. We do not understand how the economy can really be restarted always with usual investments in large infrastructures and not with local investments. DEF interventions are then financed by decontributions. In this case, however, we see that the government does not bear in mind the enormous disproportion between investment in decontribution and the real effects that have then been produced on jobs. We do not understand why the government is still beating on the decontributions, when, for example, it could tax. I see the Deputy Minister laughs, I don't know if with me or alone... Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I was saying goodbye to a senator who arrived. I'm listening. BULGARRELLI (M5S). I beg your pardon, then. Another investment problem is the use of European funds. There is a very marked bureaucratic inability in Italy to use European funds. The investments that could be made using European funds are minimal, because there is a great bureaucratic inability to use them and, when they are used, there is a great ability to distract them in the pockets of the few, so they almost never come to a successful conclusion. Here too, we can stress yet another institutional scorn on the part of the Government. The government, with the pacts for the South (which are, then, the use of European funds that were already there), decides to centralize both the allocation of resources and the choice of interventions. The interventions are financed by the local authorities, but it is Rome that decides how and when. Why do I focus so much on investment? Because, especially at this time when quantitative easing is being used (Q.E.), if in parallel with it there is not a strong push on public investment, there are very negative side effects on financial instruments. In fact, interest rates in recent years have zeroed, becoming, some, even negative. I worry about this not because I care about finance, which is the topic farthest from me, but because from this comes a problem also for the savings booklets and the good fruits of the Cassa depositi e loani and of the Italian Post Office, which obviously have recorded the same trend. This could create problems to the liquidity assets guarded by the Deposit and Loan Fund, which today remains the real, unique, great resource of this country, which the various governments have used to provide guarantees. On this subject too, there would be a need for clarification by the State. How much do all these guarantees impact on the separate management of the Deposit and Loan Fund? Finally, I would just like to say a few words about this maneuver. First of all, I note that for the first time the top-down approach is adopted, which was foreseen by law and which the Government of course has observed, but this approach, to look better, is applied only in half compared to the law: in fact, the precise macro-financial framework, that is, the content of the future programming, which is extremely indefinite and which obviously prevents Parliament from checking the financial credibility of this document on time. This verification is not only prevented by Parliament, but also by those who look at us from outside: Europe, the financial markets, all those to whom we must demonstrate that the Italian State is still credible. With this type of approach and this type of macro-financial framework, we cannot control credibility. Since it is not specific, then, it is obviously impossible to actually apply the indicators introduced in the DEF to measure equitable and sustainable well-being (BES). I conclude with a sentence that has been written in the DEF in relation to the fight against inequalities and that has truly left me speechless. The government, in fact, blacks out that it is now an unavoidable objective to fight inequalities, but not for people (even if absolute poverty has increased by 155%), but because this inequality damages growth and creates political instability. I believe that these words do not need to be commented upon. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u54	Mr President, like every year the general debate on the Economic and Financial Document allows us to make some reflections on politics, in particular on education, of which I personally am a member of the Senate Commission on merit. A short while ago my colleague from the Senator Conte Commission preceded me by making some reflections on the subject, listing some measures but forgetting to point out that the interventions that he himself declined are already foreseen in the law of stability for the years before 2017, failing to point out what are the real new interventions in support of education and research policy in this country, which should be listed in this year's DEF and which instead do not appear there. To look very well at the document of economy and finance that we receive punctually every year here in the Senate and on which we base our interventions, you can find interesting numbers that tell you a lot about the voidness of politics for education and therefore for the school, the university and the research, of this Government. In particular, I would like to focus on macroeconomic indicators, before going into detail, if the time available to me will allow me to do so. On page 108 of the government document, we find Table IV.4, which is very indicative of this. This is the table in which the various macro-Chapters of expenditure, including expenditure on education, are declined, outlining a long-term scenario, starting from the data relating to the five-year period 2010-2015 and going even until the year 2060, including in this calculation also the demographic projections but also the macroeconomic lines dictated by this Government. Well, this table shows how the percentage numbers of GDP, as they are actually reported, range from 3.9 percent in 2010 to decrease to 3.6 percent in 2015, to 3.5 percent in 2020 and further to 3.4 percent in 2025. They remain stable at this value up, even, to 2045, when they increase of the ghost ghost 0.1 percent, going to 3.5 percent. From 2045 to 2060 there is a further increase of 0.1 percent, so in 2060, according to this Government, we will spend on education in relation to GDP as we spent in 2015. This says a lot about this government's strategic vision of the chapter on education, which - let us remember - is a fundamental chapter, because there is no economic recovery without adequate investment in this area. Of course, for a government that has a few months to live, looking at a 2060 forecast is at least comforting. At least, this government will no longer be in office from here shortly and, therefore, the new government that will arrive - as I hope - will finally be able to put back at the centre of macroeconomic policy precisely education policy, giving it the rank of dignity that belongs to it, rather than making long-term forecasts at least catastrophic in this regard. These data, among other things, must be read in conjunction with the OECD's 'A look at education' report, which in a certain sense makes fleas to all OECD countries in relation to education expenditure. Well, the OECD report punctually notes that, since 2008, following the notorious Law 133, education expenditure in this country has fallen dramatically. We remember the cut of 8 billion and more than 140,000 jobs. In 2013, Italy ranked fourth lowest among OECD countries in terms of total expenditure on primary and tertiary education. This expenditure amounted to just under 4% of gross domestic product compared to an OECD average of 5.2 percent: OECD average that we, according to this Government, will not reach even in 2060. Expenditure was particularly low in tertiary education: 1.2 percent of GDP compared to 1.6% of the OECD average, in terms of both the number of students and gross domestic product. Among other things, the particularly hateful thing is that the relatively low level of public expenditure on education is due not to the low level of public expenditure in general - says the OECD - but to the fact that it is allocated a relatively small share of the public budget. Indeed, while public spending in general has fallen by 2% over the last five years, expenditure on education has fallen by more than 8%. This means that this Government and the former Renzi Government have cut education spending far more than they have cut public spending. So if it is already a short-sighted vision for public spending as a whole, it is a doubly short-sighted vision for education expenditure, which will bring us down to rather degrading levels in relation to GDP. Mr President, there is no new investment in universities and research in this document on economics and finance. There are few new investments in schools, which the MEF denies. The famous 25,000 recruitments feared in the DEF for the school were, in fact, reduced by the MEF, which speaks of no more than 8,000 new recruitments, because part of the funds already allocated by the law of stability 2017 will go for the reconstruction of the career of the precarious, and this compared to the 150,000 fixed-term contracts that still exist in the school. In conclusion, there are few change with regard to school; zero change for university and research: this is the vision of government education and research policy that, fortunately, has the months counted. [[Applause from Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u56	Mr President, after listening to Mr Bocchino's speech, I would like to question a little bit of everything. I believe, in fact, that they are clear to everyone how much investment, on the other hand, has been in relation to previous years by central-left governments since we settled, and how much attention has been paid to the themes of education, university and research, to the theme of culture and entertainment. The data must then also be read in relation to what we have had in the past. We started from a dramatic, truly dramatic situation, with regard to education and school, university and research and entertainment. These days - and the senators of the 7th Commission know this - we are working on the Live Show Act which we have included as a recommendation in our opinion. For fifty years, this provision must be approved and awaited by the entertainment world. And the law will finally be there, just as it has happened with regard to the law on cinema, which is now a reality. And now the implementing decrees are being made. And the school's implementing decrees have been discussed in recent weeks. There's everything, and there's data. Finally there are investments in the school and many hirings. Never, Mr President, has there been such an impressive intervention in the field of school, university, research and entertainment. Unfortunately, it does not seem that all this is being considered, as was also apparent during the debate that we had the opportunity to hear this morning. It is clear that there is a gap compared to other countries in which it was chosen many years ago to invest in these areas. The important thing, however, is to start well and for several years now, in our budgetary laws, we have been working on this and the results can be seen. It's not just who doesn't want to see them. There are millions of euros allocated. I mention only school data: for a more open, inclusive and innovative school, we have ten actions for 840 million on the school NAP; for basic skills, 180 million have been allocated, for global citizenship skills, 120 million euros and for European citizenship, 80 million euros. This is how we deal with the issues that our world has to deal with and we put our resources into it. Of course, I would also like to have much more resources for this world, because I believe that a country is only developing if we invest a great deal in culture, education and training. And any democratically convinced person, any person who has the perception of development through quality can only agree. I believe that one cannot fail to consider the intervention - I repeat - imposing that we have put in place and that we also find in the DEF in our examination. We must, therefore, continue along this path. I would also like to point out the intervention made on children's schools: we often talk about it in the Commission, but there is never enough talk in this House about the measures to be taken by our families, by women; measures which finally mean (as far as the implementing decree on children is concerned) that sending a child to kindergarten is considered no longer assistance, but part of the educational path. These are huge cultural revolutions that we are able to carry forward. So, while I hope that more and more, Mr Vice-Minister, will be the resources devoted to this area, I think we can be very pleased with what we have been able to do during this parliamentary term. [[Applause from Senator Tonini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u57	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u58	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, I will confine myself to dealing with issues relating to youth employment and occasional work. Among the strategic objectives set out in the Economic and Financial Document, we believe it is a priority to work for the strengthening of active labour policies and we agree that these policies are essential for productivity in the first place of small and medium-sized enterprises which, especially in our territory, are present in large numbers. In the examination of the decree extends deadlines and the decree for the abolition of vouchers, as a Group for the Autonomouss we have posed the problem of identifying within a short time a new regulation of the occasional work in coherence with the objectives of flexibility and simplification that were the basis of the previous discipline. The Government's commitment to identifying a new discipline was also reiterated in the examination of the DEF. The timing of this commitment, in our view and of those working in sectors where seasonal occasional work is prevalent, such as tourism and agriculture, does not seem adequate to the urgency of overcoming the current and delicate transitional phase. The deadline for the introduction of new measures in July, indicated in the DEF by the Government, cannot be considered appropriate. Mr Vice-Minister, we need to intervene within a much shorter time, at least by May, in order not to undermine the competitiveness and presence of small and medium-sized enterprises for which the need for occasional work is crucial. The referendum and the consequent need to abolish vouchers in order to avoid it, in the name of the stability of the country, have created a normative vacuum that must be remedied with immediate times. For the purposes of active policies to create youth employment, Mr Deputy Minister, we also consider it essential to refinance the total contribution relief in the first three years of the contract for the recruitment of apprentices in companies of up to nine employees, because this would be consistent with an effective and strategic exploitation of apprenticeships in the context of flexible but regulated access to the labour market. This forecast expired at the end of 2016, but in the discussion of the bill of conversion of the so-called extension term decree it was expressed negative opinion, for lack of coverage, on the proposal with which it was asked to extend it. Since these amounts are particularly small but are necessary to promote youth employment, they could be identified. The Government has done well to consider priority measures to stimulate job creation under the National Reform Programme, which is a key part of the DEF. We support not only the development of the interventions adopted by the Renzi Government, but also the further innovation of the terms of labour policies, the stimulation of skills and liberalisation: these are objectives and principles that can promote the fight against inequalities and respond to the concept of fair and sustainable well-being that the Government has included in the DEF. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u59	Mr President, the DEF is the occasion on which the government presents Parliament with the macroeconomic and public finance framework necessary to support the budgetary manoeuvre, which, on the one hand, could even be very close in time this year, while on the other hand it will be included in the Stability Act. This is, therefore, an opportunity to talk about the large aggregates and the critical issues they present. In my opinion, the problem that is dramatically consolidating in Italy, to which we cannot find solutions and which risks, in the short and medium term, creating structural problems and in some ways potentially irreversible to the Italian economy, is the public debt. Everyone knows that I am not an admirer of rating companies, nor do their judgments fascinate me. However, we all have to take account of this and, if this alarm is generalized, it comes from several parts and above all is supported by data, then we have to face the problem really, seriously, penalty an irretrievable compromise of a large part of the Italian economy. Our public debt vis-à-vis GDP does not diminish but, with all due respect to Minister Padoan, it was considered to postpone its reduction in relation to GDP to the year following what we are discussing. Above all I am afraid of the Italian debt in absolute value, because it grows on average of 50 billion euros per year compared to a GDP that instead grows for fractional. If and when you manage to reach 1% in Italy it is a celebration, but it is a growth dimension that certainly cannot affect the high public debt and its relationship with GDP. This is now the problem with which all the maneuvers, indeed I would say all the action of the Government must confront. And the most serious thing is that this debt is increasing in the most favorable rate situation in history, at least in my memory. Never have the rates been so low and of course we must hope that they will rise, because it means that the economy is recovering. However, such a huge stock of debt has extraordinary contraindications, because the 1% increase in rates could lead to an increase in the burden on the debt service that is unsustainable for the Italian budget. You mean to support the economy if then with a weekly maturity you have to serve the public debt that expires; that is even immediate liquidity. The debt service is now almost cash, in fact it is cash, you pay instantly and of course it is a problem of great seriousness. In my opinion - but I think of everyone - this situation can only be resolved by increasing the productivity of the system. If productivity is not significantly increased, we do not get to the bottom of it. And to me it seems that this DEF and the action of the Government do not take into consideration the problem of productivity with the necessary incisiveness and energy and with appropriate measures. I shall confine myself to a few examples. The first thing that is needed is the reform of public administration and school. I have seen some of the so-called Midia decrees and, less than positive reform of the school, new structural and increasing current expenditures are introduced. The current structural expenditure and increasing ingulf, stiffens the public budget, goes exactly in contrast to what is necessary in the country. The same goes for school: the example of good school was not positive. I agree with Senator Di Giorgi when she says that the school is the cornerstone of development, but I have the feeling that we do not take seriously the problems of the content of the school (and not the staff) that serve to form new generations, able to compete on the world market and to direct education in this sense in its various facets. As for the reform of the public administration, I feel worse if I think about the simplification of procedures. I must thank Deputy Minister Morando because, with his usual lucidity, he showed the Commission a table which I consider to be highly significant of what should not be done. In 2016 or 2015 - I don't remember the year now, but for our purposes it is the same - an extraordinary increase in public investment stakeouts compared to the previous year, the cash payment for the same has radically decreased. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. In 2016. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Deputy Minister Morando. We have read about it and the question I put to Parliament has arisen immediately, and it has also been taken up by the rapporteur, who knows perfectly well what I am talking about and we have discussed it together in the Commission. Parliament and the government must question what happened and why. The causes will certainly be many, but - you will excuse me a bit of controversy - is ever possible what happened in recent days, when it seemed that a paragraph of the code of contracts had removed to Dr. Cantone I do not know what extraordinary power and Italy has shouted? Would it not have been better to stop and think a little, if it is true that, with the entry into force of the new procurement code, spending capacity has decreased? If this very element competes - it may be that yes, it may not be - I would not shout at the scandal: if you take away a power from Dr. Cantone, in my opinion we do well to do so, but from my point of view we should also remove other powers. But the point is clear: this problem occurred in the year of entry into force of the new procurement code. It is up to the Government and Parliament to question this with seriousness and serenity. Then you will allow me to make a bit of controversy about an opposition force, because I am deeply convinced that today the function of the DAC, far from solving the problems for which it was created, is certainly a new funnel, a bottleneck that does not serve Italy. The third problem with the increase in debt - and then I come to the conclusion, Mr President, because these are the great problems facing us - is the huge flooding of banking activities with government bonds. It is clear that, by systematically requiring the State to issue new securities to meet its financial needs, one of the typical subscribers is banks. In recent years the amount of government debt securities of banks has increased. And then it's useless for us to cry and say that banks don't give money to companies. Gentlemen, the balance sheet of the banks is the one, apart from the misdeeds that, if they are found, must be severely punished. What's the question? The structural problem is that, if I am forced to invest a certain amount of additional liquidity in public debt securities, I cannot provide as much liquidity, even if I am required. I cannot do that even for low-risk jobs, as is traditionally the case in Italy, for example, mortgages, both at home and for businesses. Now, it is clear that we must address this problem, because then it has also given rise to other phenomena that we know and that we do not need to discuss now. Having banks so flooded is a bitch for credit that, in order to increase the productivity of the system - this is what we are dealing with - is certainly important. Instead, I have the feeling - I said it and I repeat - that it is not possible to think of solving these huge problems with an increase in split payment or B&B taxes. The reflection that I give to the Government, which is then the last element that leads me to not be satisfied with the measures of the DEF and its plant, is the following. It is not by chance that the increase in B&B taxation and split payment are taxes - let's call them what we want, but this is what it is - which then affect the company. And then we cannot say at a time that we need to increase productivity and improve Italian GDP, as a result of improving the conditions of production and demand on the part of society, and together have these taxes on businesses, albeit small. I believe that this is not good, also because, especially in times of crisis, we must leave a little animal spirit to capitalism. And I don't say that, and neither does an economist of my political side: one of the great economists of history, John Maynard Keynes, says that. It is a lesson of economy and history. The economy does not always take place with Cartesian rules. In a moment of severe crisis, the rules require us, but we must also leave free energy to the entrepreneurial forces. I do not think this is taken into account by the DEF in our examination. [[Applause from Senator Perrone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u60	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Economic and Financial Document addresses the situation of the country with realism, which, leaving behind the recession, finally grows, but not at the pace that we should be able to achieve. More pressing actions and policies are needed to give continuity and greater strength to growth on several levels. First of all, at European level, the path is narrow, between the respect of the European parameters that our country confirms, also with the recent maneuver of the measure at this moment in the examination of the Parliament, and the demand for a revision of the fiscal compact to be made more flexible than the growth and social inclusion, preparing also when the support of the ECB will fail to give credit, thus resolving the issues related to the banking crisis of the European credit. It is important in Europe to shift the centre of gravity of a new European policy with more decisive progress on European investment, banking union, fiscal union and an effective social agenda. However, we must also act forcefully in our country, first of all continuing on the path of the reduction of taxation in terms of work and business, also aimed at growth. We have before us - as the DEF says - the issue of the decommissioning of clauses for 2018, above all - I think - giving more strength to the effective fight against tax evasion, in particular in the area of VAT. In this sense, we need to carry out a systematic review of public expenditure, particularly at central level in the Ministries, through the full implementation of the new accounting law, so that the term spending review acquires a more continuous and even more effective dimension. Secondly, it is important - in my opinion the decisive point also in the relationship between DEF and the future of the country - to bring to completion, in a decisive and even more effective way than has been done in recent times, the reforms undertaken in this legislature. Therefore, what the PNR reports in the dedicated section must be addressed with great seriousness. I refer, in particular, to the reforms of public administration, which have a fundamental link to that ability of the country to return to growth. We were just talking - for example - about VAT evasion and the fact that it can be seriously countered by e-invoicing, including indirect mechanisms such as the split payment that can help. But the basic requirement is that the public administration should work more efficiently to ensure that the VAT refunds to the categories are given in a timely manner. This creates opportunities for development and combating evasion. The same speech concerns civil justice, the time of the proceedings, and we could give many other examples, as has been said on the subject of school. Therefore, we must continue on the ground of reducing taxation and reforms and make growth support more effective. On this front we have had an example, in recent years, of two different developments: support for private investment in some sectors, in particular manufacturing, has produced excellent results, through super depreciation and tax credit. Not in the entire private sector, the same thing has happened. We note - for example - that in the varied service world these interventions have not had the same effectiveness, which is why it is important to implement reform policies - I am thinking of competition, in particular - which also allow these sectors to reopen a flywheel of more effective growth and innovation. As has also been mentioned in other interventions, the other major contradiction concerns public investment. We cannot believe that in one year there is a drop in public investment of 16%. This fact must make us seriously reflect not with the demolition logic, part of the political rhetoric, that I have heard in some intervention, but with the ability to identify targeted interventions and understand why those investments have collapsed. It is likely that the procurement code will have to enter into force in its new version, correcting those aspects that did not work. There is certainly also a wider problem of planning, bureaucratic procedures and the ability of the public administration to manage investment, as well as the optimal use of European funds and the Development and Cohesion Fund, which remain very often general projects, without being able to go into detail. Probably we must also reflect on the need to give certainty of resources to the local authorities - in this case I stress Municipalities, Provinces and Metropolitan Cities - in order to make sure that even those small but widespread investments that make the numbers and give the opportunity to have answers start again. On this, the DEF and, above all, the policy that will be implemented through subsequent reforms and the budget law must provide more effective responses in order to remove the very negative figure of the fall in public investment, which depends not on the resources available but on the procedures used. Finally, I think that the social issue must be dealt with very decisively. We cannot be satisfied with the figure for youth employment, in a context in which the more general trend in employment has given interesting signals over the last three years, also thanks to the policies implemented. I think that concrete, targeted and selective support should be put in place for 2018 for youth employment and also for women, in the forms that will be considered most effective. On the subject of reforms, it is very important that the most proactive and active part of the jobs act - i.e. the policies of relocation and positive mobility in the labour market - finds a greater capacity for declination. Finally, I think it is very important to take the subject of demographics seriously, which has several conjugations. I am thinking of support for the family and the birth rate, as well as the possibility of giving a universal and also reformed character to the issue of child allowances, with employment opportunities in family policies. Other countries - I am thinking in particular of the French model, but also Belgium and other European countries - have been able to find in the mix of family support, services for families and the possibility to create concrete opportunities also for work, the solution to make possible the reconciliation between work and family, allowing new opportunities. I believe that, from this point of view, in the course of the budgetary manoeuvre, we can think of measures that give concrete social support to families, while at the same time setting in motion positive mechanisms through the possibility of creating new employment. I think that this social part, together with the topic of investment and the recent positive law on income inclusion, the result of an agreement with 37 social associations engaged in the field of combating poverty and exclusion, can represent the three directions along which to operate: a Europe that makes policies for growth; a country that goes on with reforms for growth and simplification; a country very attentive to social and employment issues to give future and perspective to the possibility of growth. The DEF outlines this scenario, which must be fully and firmly achieved through implementation reforms. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u62	The debate is closed. I would like to inform my fellow Members who have received the Presidency and who have distributed motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 1, presented by Senators Centinario, Candiani and Gasparri, 2, presented by Senator Comaroli and other Senators, 3, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 4, presented by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra, 5, presented by Senator Mangili and other Senators, 6 presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, 7 presented by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other Senators. I call the rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u63	Mr President, I am only speaking for a brief reply, first of all to thank all those who have spoken in the debate and, secondly, for the development and clarification of certain points, which I believe to be important and which have emerged in today's debate. First of all, it has been made clear that the role of the DEF is to outline a policy framework within which to place government policies and measures, which will then be outlined in the budgetary law phase. It has been said by some that the DEF, from this point of view, would be an elusive and generic document, which would not have outlined that set of references. I believe that this is not the case and - as I said in my introductory report - many things can actually be attributed to the DEF 2017, but one cannot fail to recognize the fact that, in the numbers and trends outlined, it gives a talk of truth about what is happening, about the phase we are going through and, above all, about the prospects and challenges that await the Italian economy. Therefore, it is a truthful speech for the positive results, which of course is important to stress - let us not forget, in fact, that only some time ago we were still immersed in the gloomy crisis that has characterized our economy since 2008-2009 and that in recent years we have begun to outline different trends and trends, in terms of output, industrial production and employment, as many colleagues have mentioned in their interventions - and also with regard to the problems to be faced. From this point of view it is important not to hide anything from us and, emphasizing what positive has been done, to have at the same time full awareness of the challenges that await us. What has been done positively is due to a difficult adjustment process, as I have been able to say in my report. It has been said by Senator Bonfrisco that there has been too much pressure on so-called variables and demand policies and at the same time Senator Ricchiuti said that there has been a whole set of interventions based on supply policies. I think they are both right: the set of elements, the adjustment manoeuvre and the policies put in place have at the same time insisted on aggregate demand and supply, precisely because only through the interaction of these two sides it is possible that they will have positive effects. I believe that this is the only possible approach for an economy like ours, which absolutely needs more consumption and investment, which at the same time must be able to stimulate a supply capacity that must be strongly fueled by measures - as Senator Azzollini recalled - that stimulate the productivity of our economic system that - as we know - has been languishing for a long time. I would like to point out that many people have spoken of modest growth and unsatisfactory results. It is absolutely true, but it should be added immediately that we have had more than modest growth and unsatisfactory results for about twenty years. And I say this not in order to diminish the responsibilities for what is happening, but in order to emphasize the structural fact on which it is necessary to intervene. It is not true, as Senator Tosato said, that the public accounts have deteriorated; I do not know what data he referred to, but in fact in recent years the government deficit has improved and has fallen, as we know, in nominal and real terms. It remains a very serious problem, namely the debt stock which, as has been pointed out by several parties, must be our important concern. With reference to the new rule of balance and above all a medium-term objective, some have said: "You have put it into the Constitution." This is not right, because it should be said: 'We have put it into the Constitution', because it should not be forgotten that that rule was voted by a very large majority of the previous legislature. If in these years the Government has moved over time to achieve these goals it has done so to exploit spaces of growth. In other words, this shift did not want to circumvent an adjustment, but to strengthen a path of growth and this was not done only by Italy because, as you will see, all European countries have followed the same type of approach and path. In this adjustment process, we have respected - it is important to stress this - the European rules. As I said in my introduction, we believe that European rules need to be changed to ensure greater compatibility with growth paths, but these rules must be respected as long as they exist. For example, I found Senator Tosato's remark that he had failed to comply with European rules because the European Commission imposed a correction on us. I would like to point out that correction is part of a normal interaction. Right after Senator Tosato added that that Commission is a crazy cage. On the other hand, we believe that the Commission is an important body and that it has a fundamental function. We also believe that compliance with European rules is important because in Europe we need to be involved, able to interact on this table. It seems to me that the debate has been very rich and that many notes and criticisms have been raised, but I have not heard a proposal and an approach that were different from what we have pointed out to be the approach to be pursued. On the one hand, there is a need for policies and measures to boost growth through investment and reform. This has been said from several quarters, for example by Senators Moscardelli, Santini and Filippi: investment and reforms remain the two fundamental levers. I have heard nothing to replace the approach that has been followed. On the other hand, I agree, as has been pointed out by several interventions, that alongside the revival of growth, it is very important to increase the capacity for inclusion. Growth must be inclusive, while in the past it has not been inclusive - we must recognize it - in Italy and in many other countries. I think it is very right to accompany policies to support growth with social policies, which can intervene on the discomfort, exclusion, inequalities that are present, as we know, in many parts of our country; but I believe that this has been reiterated in the DEF, precisely through the anticipation and inclusion, for the first time in the document under consideration, of these first indicators, which, of course, will have to be refined and strengthened. These indicators aim to underline that we need to grow more and that this growth must be able to spread to the citizens of our country as much as possible the effects it has, in terms of greater resources and satisfaction of needs. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pegorer.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u64	We greet the exponents of the choir Idica of Clusone, in the province of Bergamo, who are witnessing our works from the stages. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u65	I say that the Presidency declares motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Mr Centinario and others, unacceptable and that a new text has been tabled in relation to the motion for a resolution No 4. I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I would ask you to indicate which motion for a resolution you intend to accept on behalf of the Government, in order to allow the definition of the time limits for amending activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u66	Mr President, first of all, on this point: the Government accepts motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2) signed by the Heads of the majority groups supporting the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u67	The Government has therefore stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 4 (text 2). It is therefore now time for one hour to table any amendments to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u68	Mr President, I would like to start with a reference to Senator Bonfrisco, who said that the government hopes that his narration of reality will prevail. If that were true, we should expect a considerable distance between the trend framework for existing legislation, which is the harsh reality, and the policy framework, which should represent that dream that the government would like to replace reality. But that distance - this is a very important point for the evaluation of the Economic and Financial Document - between the trend framework for existing legislation and the policy framework is not there. There isn't: just read the two pictures (as we know, the two tables that must be read first to evaluate a document of economy and finance) and you can see that this distance is basically not there. The policy framework is very close to the trend framework for existing legislation. What does this mean? Some might say that it means that the government does not have any ambition to intervene, because it plans to happen what would happen if the current legislation of income and expenditure remained exactly what it is. But this interpretation would be quite wrong. The truth is that the programming framework is close to the trend because this document of economy and finance - not surprisingly the last of this legislature - takes into account the important results achieved both on the promotion of growth, on the side of the reduction of inequality, and on the side of the stabilization of public finance and is placed - many have said it critically, I take it again, instead, as a positive factor - in continuity with the choices of economic and fiscal policy that the previous government has put in place. That is, we are walking, or rather continuing to walk, on that narrow path that we are talking about and which the Minister of the Economy has been talking about for a long time, between fiscal consolidation on the one hand and the need to promote growth on the other that also - not only - thanks to the economic and fiscal policy of these years has been somewhat enlarged. The criticisms advanced regarding the positions taken by the Government and the majority that say that this has happened only thanks to the policies of recent years, because it is quite clear that what is happening on the side of a certain consolidation of growth and public finance is not only due to the action of the last governments: there are international factors that influence decisively, there have been choices of economic and fiscal policy of previous governments that have determined outcomes that continue to act in the data of public finances. There is no doubt, however, that the novelty is represented - and it is for this reason that the policy framework and the trend framework are so close - by the fact that during these years basically there has been a growth that tends to consolidate, albeit at a much lower rate than those not only generically desirable and desired, but necessary, there is a situation in which the level of structural indebtedness continues to fall in any case in an attempt to get closer to the full achievement of the medium-term objective that, as you know, for our country is the structural balance, and inflation has returned - this is very important for the purposes of stabilisation before and the reduction of the overall volume of debt then - to move in the right direction. We can say that if we are not close to the ECB's target of inflation close to 2%, but less than this percentage, we are perhaps in a position to say that the risk of deflation appears to be averted. From this point of view, therefore, it is not true, in my opinion it is not simply founded that the Document of Economics and Finance is an attempt to subornate the Italians by presenting a reality that does not exist. This is demonstrated by the proximity between the policy framework and the trend framework. A second statement I took in the debate, for the participation to which I thank everyone, and which interested me, is that of Senator Tosato, who said that the reduction of central public expenditure is only apparent. This statement has no technical basis in the numerical data and it is also, if I may, the Senator Tosato, for a representative of the League vaguely self-harmful, because they are also governments of which the League has been part to having obtained a result that causes reality to deviate from this judgment. I make them, Senator Tosato, just two examples that are very significant. In 2009, expenditure on employee income (central government) amounted to 171.7 billion in Italy; in 2016 expenditure on employee income amounted to 164 billion. I'm not quoting a percentage of gross domestic product, I'm quoting the absolute figure. How do you say that the current expenditure is out of control when the numbers are overwhelmingly these? We are faced with a reduction in expenditure on this side of the central administration in nominal terms and it is not true that the governments of the last phase have achieved it: they have achieved governments that have consistently moved on this side starting from the decree Tremonti and those who say otherwise have not followed the trends of public finance of these years and I do not understand why we should not recognize from those political forces that have made those choices. A second figure is that of intermediate consumption. You know how important intermediate consumption expenditure is in the central administration. Well, in 2010, intermediate consumption amounted to 133.6 billion. In 2017, 133.8 billion are budgeted: a budget that will be achieved because it is consistent with what happened in 2016. We are, that is, the same nominal figure after seven years. This result is also the result of a series of initiatives on which perhaps, in this second case, the presence of policies put in place by the last governments is stronger, especially thanks to the action of the Council that has rationalised purchases and has raced on this side. Of course, one might ask: but then, if you have achieved such results on the staff expenditure side and on the intermediate consumption side, why does the overall figure of primary expenditure continue to increase, even if it is absolutely under control? The answer is mainly in a given. Pension expenditure in 2009 was 231 billion. In 2016, therefore, after the Fornero intervention and due to demographic developments, pension expenditure amounted to 265 billion. It is quite clear that the still very strong dynamics resulting from demographic factors, despite the Fornero reform, of social security expenditure largely compensates for the entirely satisfactory trend in terms of reducing expenditure of other items of expenditure of the central administration. It's okay, then? Absolutely not. We know that, both in the first case and in the second, we have achieved successes on the expenditure review side (and I am talking about different governments, including center-right governments) through the use of intervention methodologies to a large extent inappropriate and tending to be enemies of growth. We have achieved results of this type, certainly significant in terms of quantity, as I have tried to show you, mainly through the logic of linear cutting that, as it shoots in the pile and blind, ends up reducing both the expenditure of efficient administrations, and, in the same dimension, the expenditure of inefficient administrations. This, of course, keeps pockets of waste and misdirected spending, while creating particular difficulties for the best administrations. Now we all have a new opportunity, of which the document of economy and finance speaks widely. I am surprised that, with the exception of Senator Bulgarelli's intervention, no reference has been made to this dimension of the reform before us. The reform of the budget structure makes it possible to set the expenditure review operation on a completely new basis, finally introducing the revision of expenditure in the logic of programming, according to the top-down mechanism. This will be the first year in which this procedure will begin. It will only be from the next one that the government that will come after the elections will actually be able to carry out an operation that will give the revision of the expenditure a solidity and selective ability that until now has not had. To say that we have not achieved results on this side is to say false, compared to what the numbers say and it is also ungenerous, politically, not only towards the center-left, but, if one has to be objective, also towards the center-right. A further comment, Mr President, concerns Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and, in part, Senator Azzollini who, even for a critical assessment, referred to the decision of an important rating agency to worsen the rating of our country during the last week. Well: I personally believe that, with regard to rating agencies, we - the European Community, the global system of regulation in the field of credit and finance to the global dimension - make a serious mistake when we systematically agree to introduce into the regulation of the credit and finance system the conclusions of rating agencies that are absolutely legitimate private individuals who sell information on the market and if they make them pay well. We do not understand why public regulation should systematically share its conclusions and introduce them into the regulation itself. Having said that, if I quote this judgment, it is not to recall this position of mine, which is certainly unfortunate because I see that every week public regulation is produced in this field using and introducing in the same way the conclusions of the rating agencies. However, if I recall this figure, it is for another reason, because that agency points out that the so-called political risk is the main reason why it decided to do this operation to reduce our rating. Now, my opinion is that this assessment is to a large extent unfounded, but it is difficult to deny the evidence. The evidence tells us that in the course of this phase, it is clear, the so-called political instability risk for our country has been very high and, be careful, if there are no significant changes in direction in some of the main political forces - which legitimately (would be lacking) politically claim that if they win the next elections they will submit Italy's presence in the euro area to referendum - we will have a growing instability and this judgment on the so-called systemic uncertainty, that is on political instability. It is useless to pretend not to have understood what, still recently - who knows me knows that for me this is a challenging quote - Professor Varoufakis (yes, just him, the former Minister of the economy and the Greek finances) has emphasized, when he has said that in his opinion it was a mistake to make the euro - and he had said it -, it was an error for Greece, once the euro had been made, to enter it, but he has continued saying that once a country has entered the euro, then the idea of subjecting to the popular evaluation - whether it wins the yes, or wins the no - the presence in that area, is itself, that is, the decision to carry out a referendum on this point, factor of instability that determines that the negative consequences of the possible escape from the euro are determined before the referendum is held. In fact, all those who have to escape from a country, in particular the capitals, do so before they run the risk of being trapped in the country after the referendum acquired. From this point of view, therefore, there is no doubt: the factor of political instability has increased as a systemic risk in our country and, in my opinion, until there will be a change in the direction of major political forces that support the prospect of the referendum on the euro, this judgment will only worsen because they are political forces that, as has been said and as we all know, can win the next political elections. This applies not only to a party or to a side, but also to the center-right because of the very significant positions on this point of both the party of the North League, and the party that has Meloni as its leader. In this context, the evaluation, as I think it is, of the prospects for our presence in Europe is also set out. It has also been said that the underlying orientation of the fiscal policy of the Italian Government is maintained in the orbit of what - which in my opinion does not actually exist - so-called expansive austerity. This judgment, on the basis of the numbers, is also unfounded. It is enough to look at the intonation of fiscal policy, the so-called fiscal instance, which has been drawn up systematically by the Parliamentary Bureau of the budget over the past few years and which is a very important contribution - and I stress this as a particularly positive fact - to the parliamentary debate. If we look at the fiscal nature of Italian fiscal policy, we see that it has been placed in a moderately expansive area. I say "moderationally" because you are walking that path between fiscal consolidation and growth support needs that has always been tight; now it is a wider thread, but it remains a very difficult path to follow. However, if we have to tell the truth, if we point out at this moment that Europe is growing more than the United States of America and that Europe's fiscal policy as a whole has taken an expansive, albeit very moderately expansive, intonation, it is difficult to say that the reasons why Italy does not grow properly are all to be sought in Europe. Objectively, it is necessary to look for them in that difficulty to fully implement a plan of structural reforms that has to do with the great topic of productivity. The governments of this last phase have carried out important reforms: I am thinking in particular of the labour market sector, but there is no doubt that reforms that are equally significant and relevant to the increase in productivity remain to be achieved, and this is the commitment of the DEF and on which Parliament is preparing to vote. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u69	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the second group of representatives of the Idica choir of Clusone, in the province of Bergamo, which is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u70	I would remind you that the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2) and that the deadline for tabling any amendments to this proposal expires at 16:01. I therefore suspend the sitting until 15.45 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 15.21 a.m. and resumed at 15.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u73	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to start with the macroeconomic context on which the DEF is based. All of us, according to the figures, learn that from a GDP growth of 0.9 we have moved to 1% and all to say that this is good, that our GDP is good. Too bad, however, that Europe's average is 1.7%, that in Spain it is even 2.6% and that in Greece, the last taillight nobody wanted to end, that growth is 2%. And we say, ah, how nice is 1%? But it also shows that this one percent is a bit of a consequence of the fact that other economies are doing well, because there is the stimulation of international trade. A bit of criticism should be made about this shy one per cent, because perhaps what has been done over the years is not all so beautiful, it was not all so effective that our economy started again; otherwise at least a 2%, at least a 1.7 per cent, like the European average, we had to have it. No, you don't. Attention, this situation is very worrying, especially in view of the fact that we also have a huge public debt, unlike other European countries. If we consider that in 2012 the public debt was 1,990 billion (official figure) and that in January 2017 it was 2,250 billion, this means that 260 billion were used, but their effectiveness was almost nothing. That's obvious, the data says. If we consider the geopolitical risks, the spread and the interest rate that are starting to rise and if we consider that interest expenditure on GDP is 4%, we can imagine what will happen. On internal economic policy issues, it should be remembered that the tax burden on companies is 64.8%, according to studies by the CGIA di Mestre. The tax wedge in Italy is more than 10 points higher than in the other countries of the European Union. As far as unemployment is concerned, it is true that there has been some small increase in jobs, but if everything goes so well, there should not be an unemployment rate at these high levels. If we also analyze what we want to do in the DEF, we notice that the IRPEF cut has disappeared. PD prided itself on the fact that it would cut taxes. We must cut the actual taxes, however, and not say on the one hand that we cut the direct taxes and, on the other hand, increase the other taxes charged to the citizen. One positive thing - I must say - that we want to do in this DEF is to cut the selective wedge, but we will see how it will be realized. The thing that is sorry and on which a government should focus is the issue of investment. ISTAT states that public investment has been falling for seven years, while Padoan says that there will be a revival of investment; but the resources are always those, so we'll see what happens. Let us also consider that the regions and local authorities that may have managed to make careful spending and to have a surplus cannot spend it and cannot invest it. Another strong theme about local authorities is the spending review, so much so that it has also entered into the maneuver. But let's remember that so far the main cost cut has been made by local authorities (Regions, Provinces and Municipalities), which in 2017 will have 10,3 billion cuts and in 2018 will have 12,34 billion cuts. With regard to expenditure, Mr. Deputy Minister, it is true that the increase is seen and it is true that the Government has achieved the cut in income from employees, but, if we go to see in detail, starting from base 100, we notice that the central administrations and ministries have fallen to 97, while the regions have fallen to 89. The real cut, once again, has been done by the local authorities. If we then go to see the intermediate consumption of expenses, always starting from base 100 in 2009, we notice that in 2012 these had dropped to 90 and that in 2016 they are to 105; therefore there has been an increase of these expenses. Sorry to keep hearing the speech that the government needs to cash in. It does so, Mr President, to the detriment of businesses by inserting the split payment. This is, however, a point made by the Court of Auditors - therefore, it is not the North League which says so - in relation to the consequences of this system. Let's go see the cuts. ISTAT told us that 11.9 percent of families are in difficulty; the poor in Italy are 7.2 million. It is true, then, that the health fund has increased, but if we go to see specifically there has been an effective cut of 1.56 billion in 2017; 1,890 billion in 2018 and 3,666 billion in 2019. On the other hand, you have all heard it: so many citizens even give up their treatment. We have seen the cut of 200 million for social policies, but now the government has foreseen the income of inclusion; but it is a pity that there were already interventions that could benefit the poor; we could simply continue to pursue those rather than predict others. As I said, many cuts have been made, but 4.7 billion for the reception are there, Mr President. I forgot, of these, 91 million gives us Europe! We hear so much that Europe is helping us. No, Europe simply agrees that we spend our money; Europe gives us only 91 million, compared with 4.7 billion. Let us come to the most important issue: the famous safeguard clauses. I have heard about it from various quarters; the Government itself says that it will commit itself to disabling these clauses, but let's remember that to deactivate them in 2018 it will take 18 billion. In this regard, I quote the words in the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office on page 18: 18 billion in 2018 will be needed and net alternative corrective measures in the budget law for 2018 of 14 billion should also be put in place to achieve the objectives. It is also stated that the considerable amount of alternative measures which should be taken in place of the clauses is apparent. (...) For the third consecutive year there is no precise indication of what could continue to be the most important intervention of the next budgetary manoeuvre, i.e. the decommissioning of safeguard clauses. Mr President, it is clear that we cannot vote for the majority resolution on this DEF, for the numbers contained in the DEF and because it is a DEF made for titles. As you can see, you don't even know what's gonna happen. It has been set up to satisfy the will of Europe, which - let us remember - is what Bolkenstein imposed on us: out of 28 countries belonging to the European Union only two have transposed it. Finally, with this DEF we are not active for the real growth of our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u76	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the Economic and Financial Document should be the main instrument of economic and financial planning in our country. It should define the budgetary strategy, i.e. indicate not only macroeconomic but also public finance objectives, and also, in general terms, the measures needed to move from the trend scenario to the policy scenario. The 2017 DEF does not have these characteristics. In other words, we are faced with a broadly undefined picture, a kind of non-document. There are different reasons for this. For the Government it is difficult to give indications on what could be, for the third consecutive year, the most important intervention of the next maneuver, that is the decommissioning or not of the so-called safeguard clauses, that weigh for 19,5 billion euros on 2018. In fact, as the Parliamentary Budget Office tells us, the trend in primary trend expenditure leaves limited scope for further reductions which may be intended to offset the increase already foreseen by the previous Government for VAT and excise duties (what we call safeguard clauses). The space to defuse the clauses therefore depends, to a large extent, on the possibility of negotiating at European level, as is rightly hoped in the majority resolution, a progressive approach to the medium-term objective which gives more focus to economic growth, employment and social inclusion. It is no coincidence that the release of the safeguard clauses in 2015-2016 took place in deficit, i.e. not with compensatory measures to increase revenue and decrease expenditure. It was in deficit precisely thanks to the flexibility of deviation from the path towards the medium-term objective achieved in Europe for around €19 billion, to which the spaces obtained for the earthquake emergency and the intensification of migratory flows have been added. To this context of great uncertainty about the scale of the interventions that will have to characterize the financial maneuver, however, is added an indeterminate on the underlying philosophy of the policies to be pursued. The Article 1 Group - Democratic and progressive movement strongly stresses its priorities, which concern both the economic and social fields. In the economic field a discontinuity with the policies of the previous Government is necessary. The priority commitment of the resources available in the short term, without prejudice to the security of public accounts, must be in favour of a strong and massive public investment programme. However, these investments have fallen dramatically over the last ten years and are expected to be further reduced in relation to GDP in the coming years. In particular, local government public investment decreased by 13.7% in 2016, although, as ISTAT pointed out in its hearing, they are indispensable for the recovery of adequate and lasting conditions for economic growth. (16 p.m.) (War followed). The necessary point of discontinuity to which I referred and which I consider necessary is to understand that additional bonuses and tax discounts are not useful and that the policies followed in recent years, based on the reduction of public expenditure and taxes, have not had effect, or have had only partially because in a situation of stagnation, depression and deflation like the Italian one, supply policies are ineffective, because the problem is the shortage of demand and not that of the rigidity of the supply. The fiscal investment multiplier (i.e. the ability of this type of expenditure to affect economic growth) is two, three times greater than that of tax reduction. As I have said, therefore, we need a clear increase in investment and the most useful and urgent areas of intervention should be those of urban maintenance of our cities, of the security of the territory, of the prevention against the hydrogeological failure, of the minor road and of the reclamations of the polluting sites, that could be managed by the local authorities (Comuni and Provinces). However, procedures must be introduced to make these interventions effective, removing obstacles of different origin that today make the cycle of public works expenditure in Italy nine years. At the same time, investment in the Mezzogiorno, which is in a situation of dramatic economic and social crisis, must be speeded up, restoring the full application of the so-called Ciampi clause, which reserves 45% of public investment to the territories of the Mezzogiorno. In the social field, our focus is primarily on health and poverty. As Senator Dirindin recalled in her speech today, we need to ensure a universal and fair health system. The reduction in the ratio of public expenditure to GDP, which is already significantly below the European average, cannot therefore be accepted with indifference, especially when there is an increasing commitment to supplementary health. That is why it is important for the majority resolution to speak in favour of a corporate welfare and not a substitute for the public one, in which priority is given to the issues of reconciling care and working time. On the poverty front, it is clear that the effort that has been made with the finally introduction of a national plan on poverty must be carried forward progressively to reach that dimension of resources necessary to make it a truly universal plan, which will come to counter absolute poverty for all those in this condition. As far as resources are concerned, we continue to say that the key issue to be addressed is mass tax evasion, which has been largely ignored or eluded. The proposals have existed for some time and I am referring, for example, to those drawn up by the New Economy and New Society (NENS) which, when the Government followed them, proved to be very effective. The majority resolution has taken on a large part of these objectives, as well as others that we share less or that we would have expressed with different emphasis. That is why the Article 1 Group will vote for it, but it is clear that it will be the autumn maneuver that will have to show with what clarity and determination and, above all, with what priorities the Government and the majority will address the proposed issues. Today's vote is not therefore an opening of credit in the dark, but it is the opening of a confrontation, on a field still very - in some ways - too much - indefinite, that will see us protagonists, to fight us with determination, according to the lines I have indicated so far. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] . ).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u77	I note that, having exceeded 4 p.m., the deadline for tabling amendments to motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), which was signed by the majority group leaders, has expired.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u80	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, we will also make our contribution. We are a little perplexed, because we believe that we have long ended up in a cul de sac, which prevents us from seeing the light at the end of the tunnel. Insisting on therapeutic behavior can only be the recipe of a "Death Doctor." The Italians begin to make the beggars when they see this DEF, when they listen to Deputy Minister Morando or Senator Guerra, who climbed the mirrors to declare his vote, so much so that he would appear to have seen another movie. In the DEF there is not written what Senator Guerra said: these are proposals for the law of stability, but in the DEF there is written the exact opposite. So we understand that for this time the government saves him, but on the occasion of the law of stability they will open the crisis. We note this: this was the most important political intervention of today. Mr Morando, we are of course aware of the objections that the Italian structural deficit is out of control and that corrective action must therefore be taken. Then there is the European diktat, to which it is necessary to conform. Those who reason in this way are held captive by prejudice, which prevents them from grasping the very essence of European reality. Just look at the data provided by the Commission itself, and you will see that, in nineteen countries, only eight (Germany in the lead) are able to comply with the rules of fiscal compact; in Angela Merkel's country, obviously, the assets are disproportionate (I refer back to the intervention that Mr Mazzoni has made in general debate, who recalled that we have tabled an amendment on fiscal compact). That is 9% of GDP for Germany, while we have a modest 2.6%, and we are chasing it. But there is a substantial difference, Mr Morando, between the two countries: in Berlin unemployment is 4%, so it is, as economists say, frictional; in Italy it exceeds 11 percent abundantly, so it is structural in nature. Therefore, the Germans can hardly reflect their economy, having no reserve exercise available: an unemployed labour force, ready to work. In Italy the opposite is the case. In terms of economic policy, the consequences are even opposite. The Germans can continue to live as if nothing had happened; they should only take charge of the rest of Europe, helping the countries that have remained behind. That is to say, to allow the completion of the banking union, with the European deposit guarantee, to proceed along the partial mutualization of sovereign debts and whatever. Vote in favour of this DEF is impossible, for the simple fact that it is a document that makes an excellent, and to a large extent acceptable, summary of the good things done in the recent past by the previous Government on the front of the gradual year-on-year reduction of tax pressure, unemployment and deficit, but does not take a position on the choices that compete for the immediate future to this Government, de facto postponing every decision to the next autumn. There is no point in intervening on what has been done: we are here to discuss what will have to be done. What will you have to do? Do you want to increase VAT or not? That's the dilemma. What if it gets bigger, to do what? Cut the IRPEF or the tax wedge? These are the questions that stir the thoughts of Minister Padoan, the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri and Deputy Minister Morando. Not only that. Apart from Matteo Renzi, these questions concern all Italians, struggling with a crisis that never seems to end. And perhaps it will not end, if we continue to reason on the edge, losing sight of the great latitude of the forest that surrounds Italian society; a labyrinth in which it makes little sense to search the single tree when around it is dark pesto. That VAT should not increase is obvious: Italy suffers from asthenia, consumption stagnates, investments follow in the footsteps, prices are firm and GDP does not grow, except for the breeze that blows on the export front. Then we naturally ask ourselves: doesn't the public debt decrease in relation to GDP? This issue is being postponed until next year. The public debt increases by 50 billion a year, and this despite the situation of the lowest rates that have ever been in the last 100 years; and we hope that they will remain so, because you, Deputy Minister Morando, know perfectly well that if they were to reach 3%, which means that there is development, Italy would fail. Already with 1% we would have a situation that might be unsatisfying and with 2% we would be in agony. The rating companies tell us this every day and systematically, because in the DEF it is not emphasized how necessary a greater productivity of the system is and there is nothing about the fact that it must contain the expenses of the Regions and the expenses of the reforms of the left Lorenzin and Madia, that they are spending increasing current. It is not said that justice must be reduced, because in Italy there is no investment; and in Italy there is no more investment because entrepreneurs, who should be left a little more free from the system, since they commit to their own, are afraid, especially foreign ones, of our judiciary, civil and criminal, which blocks them immediately. The choice to make, therefore, with respect to which all the rest is subordinate, is one: to continue in the policy of gradual consolidation of the accounts, year after year, without depressing the growth. Or do we want to go back to the logic of forced steps towards balance of the budget, even at the cost of putting in place highly recessionary measures? The DEF does not make this choice, because it indicates a 2017 deficit target of 1.2%... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u81	Colleagues who hold you in the hemicycle, please step away because it particularly bounces away. Please, out of respect for my colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u82	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). I was saying that the DEF indicates a 2017 deficit target of 1.2%, compared to 2.1% in 2016, but at the same time there is a commitment not to trigger VAT increases. The two things together are impossible, because, even after the corrective manoeuvre, not triggering the VAT increases in a context of 2018 deficit to 1.2% implies however the need to find about 15 billion euros and Deputy Minister Morando implied it, he did not say that you have to find them. Added to the other measures that will have to be financed, the so-called labour market, we reach almost 20 billion, an account that is simply ridiculous to say can find full coverage, one year on another, with only spending cuts and incremental receipts from the fight against evasion. It's a movie you have to recreate. With a 2017 deficit target of less than 1.8%, the at least partial increase in VAT is not an opinion, it is mathematical. And if Deputy Minister Morando were under review, he'd be kicked out if he didn't tell us that. We are convinced that even those in Parliament who will vote in favour of this DEF have no intention of allowing this or any other Government to impose a recessionary maneuver on Italy, without prejudice to the need to continue to improve and never worsen the annual accounts. When there is that clarity that is totally lacking today, we will be able to reconsider our position. In any case, we find it depressing at this moment to have read a document of economics and finance that gives no sign of seeing the light after the tunnel. Finally, a reminder of the expenses incurred for the relief and reception of migrants: here the DEF makes an admirable operation of transparency, but it is clear that the trend is unsustainable. From the scheme available to us we see that we have gone from 800 million euros in 2011 to 4.5 billion euros in 2017. Mr Vice-Minister, it is before everyone's eyes that if we do not spread them over Europe, if we do not do as England has done, which has received from Europe the possibility of being able to pay less to Europe, we cannot support this EUR 4.5 billion. We do not call into question the fact that people at sea must be saved, until there is international conditions to prevent them from sailing off the Libyan coasts; but we demand that we do the arm-arm, as the United Kingdom has done, which we have failed to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). I'm done, Madam President. This is how we witness the paradox of a country that produces little, is submerged by debts, narrow in the grip of a rampant unemployment, but is capable of having an excess of exports not only of goods, but of capital and men: our young people. And all because a pre-Keynesian orthodoxy took over to turn into a new dogma. We, of course, make our vote not in favour, but responsible. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u85	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Vice Minister, the presentation of the 2017 DEF wants to be an operation of truth and politically is what the Government must and can do. If corrective action, in view of the forthcoming budgetary law, has its structural effects in the partial sterilization of the safeguard clauses relating to VAT and excise duties, rather than in the immediate reduction of the deficit, the National Reform Programme, which is included in the DEF, must allow positive public finance choices. The results achieved on the competitive capacity of our economy, which is slow but progressive recovery, have been important: the trade surplus has reached high levels in historical comparison and is among the most significant in the European Union; private consumption is also growing thanks to the reduction of the tax burden; as far as public finance is concerned, the net debt of public administrations is decreasing thanks to the strengthening of the primary surplus. Precisely on the primary surplus, the European Commission's data are clear: Italy is the country of the Eurozone that together with Germany has maintained the primary surplus on average higher and among the few to have produced a positive balance. Government action over the last few years has actually combined the more general strategy of growth, equity and the fight against inequality, with a reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio that is credible in the medium and long term. With regard to income inequalities, flexible but protected access to the labour market on the basis of regulated flexibility, on equal opportunities linked to a renewed and more balanced welfare system, important results have been achieved. Continuing is a choice that has no alternative. Strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is equally crucial, in line with the innovative measures already introduced, with particular reference to the conditions of access to the capital market, the strengthening of incentives for innovation and, above all, the reduction of the so-called tax wedge. The National Reform Programme combines three essential objectives: budgetary corrections and adjustments, acceleration of public investment, incentives for private investment, which are broken down. The government moves within a perspective that coincides with the natural conclusion of the legislature and considers that the reforms already adopted can be a factor of greater growth in the medium term. Minister Padoan, in his audition to the Senate and Chamber Budget Commissions, reiterated how the Government considers the public debt to be stable and considers it necessary not to change the gradual policy of deficit reduction, in order to protect the fundamental objective that is and remains growth. It is always good to make prudent assessments, but what the European Union cannot dispute is that Italy's budgetary policies are distinguished by a sense of responsibility. If, as we believe, the programmatic framework defined by the DEF must and can be considered realistic, what needs to be put in the foreground is what Minister Padoan has defined the political risk present in Italy and Europe, as the Deputy Minister has just said. There is a principle that must be protected: the search for the common good. Beyond what is legitimate to think, it remains a decisive political and social factor. To be called into question are not only the action of government, but at the same time the state and the quality of political confrontation in Parliament and in the country. In our view, there is a political deficit in this respect which goes beyond the majority and opposition groups. The examples are before us in Parliament, starting with an electoral law that combines governability and representativeness. The most obvious political risk, in our opinion, is to sum up in the assessment of what really isolates Italy in Europe, namely the ability to intervene in terms of internal structural factors limiting growth, compared to the high rates that distinguish the eurozone. Real GDP growth, as the Minister of the Economy himself pointed out, in the period between 2001 and 2013 exceeded 1% episodicly. Weak and intermittent growth is our strategic problem. The structural limits to growth are many: from the banking system to the labour market, to the efficiency of civil justice, to the public administration. In fact, attention will be needed to verify the concrete progress and effectiveness of the measures introduced and their real scope. We're not a zero year anyway. We would not be in the majority if we thought so and we know that the effects of the government's reform action require time and more consistent decisions. We believe that a policy of debt consolidation and sustainable deficit reduction measures are sustainable if fiscal consolidation is ensured primarily by a greater and stable recovery rate of the real economy. The National Plan Industry 4.0, the plan of realization of strategic infrastructural works for our Country and Europe, are fundamental points, under these profiles. In this context, we must ask ourselves an equally fundamental question. What fiscal policy should be adopted? The reduction of the tax burden, the reduction of taxes or the tax relief financed to support the competitiveness and productivity of enterprises, also obtained through structural measures, are the confirmation of an improvement in economic data and, in particular, of the increase in tax revenue. We therefore share the Government's objective to operate in order to avoid the increase in taxes provided for in the safeguard clauses which, otherwise, would be equal to 1.1 of GDP. We must therefore be more ambitious. There are still considerable problems that lead to poverty or structural difficulties. The reduction of the tax burden must be associated with positive policies and reform, otherwise it can remain or become a mere manifest rule. In the DEF, the Government made a choice of continuity by reaffirming the strategy already adopted since 2014. Action of structural reform of the country and stimulus to private and public investment; budgetary policies for the consolidation of public finance results and objectives and for growth; greater efficiency of public expenditure associated with the reduction of tax burden; improvement of system conditions in order to promote investment. Programmatic points that we share, of course. We are convinced, in line with this judgment, that the virtuous path taken by Italy in terms of public finance commitments must be supported by a politically broad and cohesive impulse to reform choices, in the medium term. We agree with what Deputy Minister Morando said when he examined the DEF in the Commission: in the absence of structural reforms, the appropriate but occasional measures become ineffective. The forecasts regarding the deficit and the impact of debt in relation to and net debt in relation to GDP, on which the Government already intervenes with the corrective maneuver for 2017, refer to the next budgetary law and to further corrective measures, in order to strengthen the policy framework of public finance compared to the trend. To conclude, the commitments set out in the majority resolution are in continuity with government action, both in supporting the introduction of a common stabilisation instrument in Europe, which can allow in particular countries subject to strict budgetary constraints to adopt anti-cyclical policies, and in fully implementing the National Reform Programme in order to achieve the national objectives of growth, productivity, employment and sustainability, both indicating the necessary strengthening of public investment, as well as strengthening active labour policies and the development of measures aimed at reducing inequalities and combating poverty. In our view, decisive, as stated in the resolution, should be actions aimed at developing policies for greater inclusive growth that reduce inequalities by rapidly implementing the law delegation to combat poverty; strengthening active labour policies; promoting interventions aimed at strengthening the presence of women in the world of work, continuing measures to promote the sharing of family burdens and the reconciliation of living and working times, as well as extending and strengthening the provision of childcare services and family services; those aimed at promoting the growth of youth employment. There is also a need for further action to reform justice, both in the criminal process and in the civil process. Among the measures essential to a process of economic growth and social equity: the simplification of the tax system, greater efficiency in the relationship between financial administration and taxpayers and, firstly, the reduction of the tax burden, with a greater contrast to evasion and avoidance, also in order to redefine the system of personal taxation are of absolute priority. The new phase of spending review, based on even more selective criteria, also requires rapid implementation of public administration reform. Just as the privatisation programme will impose an assessment that is not dictated by prejudiced oppositions. These are essential chapters in view of the forthcoming budget law. We hope that there will be a pragmatic and responsible confrontation, in the majority of governments and among political forces. In this spirit, the Group for the Autonomies will support and vote in favour of majority resolution No 4 (text 2). [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u88	Mr Gualdani (AP-CpE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what has been done so far, in the course of this parliamentary term, has been a fundamental reversal of the trend from the past. Actions have been put in place which can be considered essential for a full and consolidated recovery. We are satisfied with the reforms that have been implemented so far, with measures to boost employment and investment. But all this can only be a stimulus for Parliament and the Government to continue along a reform path. Far from making us feel satisfied, the past year must form the basis for a more solid and structured development that involves all sectors of the country. The majority and the government are well aware that the obstacles to be overcome in order to achieve a full recovery are still multiple and rooted for too long in our country system. The hearings held by the parliamentary committees have shown this. The government's macroeconomic estimates, which appear realistic and acceptable, must take into account the risks of potential less favourable developments, especially due to an unstable geopolitical and economic international framework. The euro area, despite encouraging and positive signs, has not shown a tendency to prevent a prolonged stagnation and also deflation. The future path, in view of the macroeconomic and geopolitical context in which we are immersed, will have to reconcile innovation and rationalization of spending; a restructuring of the institutions and their ability to create resources for growth seems fundamental. In continuity with past years, the DEF strengthens both the path of reduction of net debt, until it predicts the achievement of a zero balance in 2020 and the balance of structural budget both in 2019 and 2020, and the path of reforms undertaken. Specifically, among the recommendations made by the Council of the European Union, there is a need to implement public administration reform by adopting and applying all the necessary legislative criteria, in particular on the reform of public-owned enterprises, local public services and human resources management. This is because of the general situation of the Italian public administration, the Commission notes that Italy's performance is still lower than those of the comparable countries of the Union, according to most of the World Bank's 2016 governance indicators. With regard to the necessary reforms, the Commission points out, in particular, that the improvement of the performance of the Italian administration is largely linked to the management and quality of civil servants. In this regard, in the document, the Government identifies the completion, within a year, of the reform of the public administration as a key objective, since it depends on a better business environment, increased investment and productivity growth. The strategic actions under the National Reform Programme are aimed at completing the reforms of public-sector companies, local public services, public employment, as well as at completing the implementation of the Simplification Agenda, launching the three-year information and communication technology plan in public administration and ensuring greater cyber security. As regards the macroeconomic impact of reforms on public administration and simplification, the Commission confirms the positive impact, in terms of GDP growth, on the baseline scenario, of 0.5% after five years and 0.8% after ten years after the introduction of reforms. In the long run the estimated overall effect on the product is 1.2 percent. The National Reform Programme, in close relation to what is foreseen in the Stability Programme, also underlines the urgent steps to be taken to achieve the national objectives of growth, productivity, employment and sustainability of public finances. An essential aspect to bear in mind is the analysis of the elements that hinder or limit recovery; in fact, it is clear that economic growth and efficiency are hindered by the tax system. In particular, some areas are identified in which to intervene: the shift of the tax burden from labour to consumption, with the reduction of the tax wedge; the reduction of tax expenses; the reform of the land register; the fight against tax evasion. With regard to tax policies, including taxation, the fight against evasion and the revision of expenditure, the PNR identifies the following actions to be taken in the medium term: to continue reducing the tax burden to support growth; to shift taxation from labour to consumption; to review tax expenditure; to improve the coordination of the tax administration to combat evasion; to carry out investments in information and technology and human resources in support of the fight against tax evasion and to facilitate tax compliance; to reduce tax disputes and to increase the effectiveness of collection. In this context, in order to pursue the objective of greater equity in the levy, in the DEF, the Government declares that it wants to continue the activities aimed at updating the cadastral information stock, consisting of improving the quality of the databases and their correlation with the market data. Another area in which to invest with conviction and foresight, because fundamental asset for the growth of the country, is tourism. I take this opportunity to underline the extraordinary results that we are slowly getting: the approval, last February, of the Strategic Tourism Plan for the period 2017-2022, will allow to outline the development of the sector in the next six years to relaunch the Italian leadership on the world market. The Plan promotes coordinated action between the State, Regions, local authorities and stakeholders to pursue four general objectives: innovation, specialisation and integration of the national offer; increasing the competitiveness of the national tourist system; development of new marketing methodologies, implementation of efficient and participatory governance. The first results are already manifesting: just think of the record numbers recorded by the main cities and tourist destinations, especially in the South. We can live on tourism and we must do so. We continue on the road of recovery and valorization of the beauties and beautiful arts of which our territory is scattered. Another aspect that I would like to highlight, before I come to the conclusion, is the foresight of this document of economy and finance, as Italy is the first country of the European Union and the G7 to include in its economic planning - in addition to gross domestic product - indicators of fair and sustainable well-being. The past and future development of four particularly significant indicators for the quality of life of citizens and society as a whole has been presented experimentally: the average disposable income, an inequality index, the rate of non-participation in work and CO2 emissions and other climate-altering gases. In principle, well-being benefits from the increase in gross domestic product but does not coincide with it. The quality and sustainability of the environment, economic inequalities, quality of work, health and level of education of the population are some of the dimensions that contribute to the well-being of a society. As requested by experts from various disciplines, it is time that economic policy went beyond the approach of programming based solely on GDP and made policy commitments to improve areas more specific to the quality of life of citizens. With the aim of responding to this need, Parliament approved by a large majority in 2016 the inclusion of fair and sustainable welfare indicators in economic planning. In conclusion, 2017 must represent the stimulus to continue with more conviction on the way of development now taken. I would like to express my personal appreciation and appreciation of the Group to which I belong for the future horizon outlined in this DEF, characterized by courage and prudence, determination and awareness, innovation and thoughtfulness. Therefore, we can only vote in favour of the People's Alternative on the Economic and Financial Document. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u91	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I have listened to more speeches and once again I would like to ask Mr Santini, who is wearing his hat to ask for something for youth unemployment, because hell, when a structural rule was repealed that helped the unemployed, he did not ask for a strengthening for young people, rather than for it to be abolished and allocated more than 15 billion especially to large companies, which used them for change. I wonder, then, if you're there or you're doing it. I hear about selective spending review; first Deputy Minister Morando said that in the last twenty years a little the Right and a little the Left have tried, they have wrong, they have done this and that other. Then, repeal that paragraph of the budget law, signed by Renzi, in which from this year to 2019 20 billion of cuts are made to the Regions that will go to burden mainly on health and services to people and then begin to make selective cuts, for example on the participants, regarding which you have made a thousand steps back, because you are vile and you have to keep the electoral basin of the employees, of the boards of directors that do nothing, while the Italians continue to pay. That's what you're doing. When you talk about spending review and you insist so much on this is because it was created an expectation by your Renzi who, just installed, said he had between 30 and 40 billion preserved who knows where in waste. Unfortunately, these billions have never emerged. We are also talking about debt stabilization and my colleague, Mr Mangili, has rightly told me that they have stabilised the increase, that is, the debt is increasing every year by 50 or 60 billion, this is what we are talking about. As in all the DEFs that I have seen in recent years, the decline in the debt-to-GDP ratio will always take place in the future: this year and the next one will increase a little, then in the following years it will finally decrease. I then owe a reply to Deputy Minister Morando, because he gave us a paternal that I do not know whether to define superficial, mediocre or pathetic. You didn't just shoot at Brexit and Trump, doing psychological terrorism. You talk about things you don't know, because in fact it would be a possibility never explored before, so you can't be so sure, being professors; among other things, you're continuing to miss estimates and programming, so I invite you to get settled. I have a question to ask you, in the face of statements such as the following: because we give 20 billion to Europe but we take 12, I say for three years that if they do not stop with migrants I do not give them any more. This is Renzi. Shouldn't that increase the spread? This should not diminish the credibility of a country that unfortunately for three years has been entrusted to a clown who continues to lie shamelessly and now tries to chase the 5 Star Movement with the clicks: he takes to dinner those who share his posts, instead of entering into the merit of the issues, which he tries instead to mislead. Indeed, the substance of the DEF under discussion is only one: it is linked to the so-called maneuverina. In 2018 VAT will increase - and you wrote it - by 11.5 percent instead of 13. You have turned the maneuver of correction of accounts, because Europe has pulled your ears, into a development maneuver. I remember when we first met after the first earthquake, Renzi said that he had all the money for the reconstruction: you told people in Parliament that he was still in the middle of the road because you didn't get the money out. Where did Renzi have them? A meeting was held in the Chamber on 1 September in joint committees in which you all declared this: false and lying all of you. That is the reality. Then you want to fight tax evasion. The director of the Revenue Agency came to the House for the umpteenth time. From the data it brought (it didn't bring them the 5 Star Movement) it emerges for the umpteenth time, clearly, that you have recovered less than the other years, because the officials keep them closed in the offices, because so much you had enough forgiveness to get to the levels. That's what you did. However, for small and micro enterprises, expand the split payment and extend it to professionals as well. For those who listen to us from home and do not know what split payment is, I point out that the VAT discipline is very simple. An entrepreneur pays VAT when he buys and then, when he sells, he has to make the compensation or difference between the VAT when he buys and the VAT when he sells. If you have to pay it, because there is excess, you pay it; otherwise you have a credit. What do we do here? When working with the public administration, our company pays its suppliers that VAT which should actually disappear from what is given to it by the public administration. But it's not like that anymore, because public administration doesn't pay for it. This is not the recovery of tax evasion, this is the harassment of small and medium-sized enterprises working with us, working with the State and already having to undergo stricter regimes. Then I tell you, since these are the data that you yourself have entered into the DEF, that only 1.5 billion of those recovered 5 billion is evasion, otherwise you are holding liquidity from companies. But aren't you even a little ashamed to talk about protecting small businesses? You've had it, go home. Good thing this is the last DEF you're gonna do. This is what you're leaving as a legacy to the next ones to come. And the only thing that counts Deputy Minister Morando is the willingness to consult citizens to know whether or not we want to stay in the euro. We are not Greece, we are a country that walks tall and we want to consult our citizens and take our choices freely, because what we want to do is a real fight against social inequality with the income of citizenship, really help small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the support of our country, and make those investments that only you have managed to curb. Investments have decreased by 4.5%, while in the country bridges collapse and you kill yourself more and more on the holes of the roads, because the local authorities no longer have a euro. By now, especially in the South, there is a line for health care and even the Minister said that the LEAs are not respected either. This is an uncivilized country because of the Democratic Party, because of Matteo Renzi, who wanted these bankruptcy laws for our country and who is pursuing that narrowness that is leading us to the collapse. In the meantime, however, you are scraping the bottom of what little there is, for example by keeping the participants, helping the friend and friend of the friend, placing in the Council friends of friends. There is no point in hiding, because the investigation is always standing and how can you save money if there are billion-dollar bribes behind it? You can't save money. And then stop saying that Italy grows. Italy grows half the rest of Europe and I cannot hear Paleotti Guerrieri say that in the last twenty years it has been so. Go home Paleotti Guerrieri, if you haven't been able to do anything in the last 20 years! You cannot accept to grow half of the other European countries and say it's okay! It's not okay. We're the taillight. Your secretary, former Premier, said that we would be the locomotive of Europe. Shame on you, you've been denied everything. Now there's no more time to waste, resign for failure. This is a DEF made without programming. We do not know what you will do with the house or the investments that may not recognize you, we do not know what you will do with the safeguard clauses, because you do not know what fish to take, there is no shadow of investment, there is no shadow of measures for unemployment, there is no shadow of anything. But what is it, what programming document is it? What have you planned, can you understand or not? You didn't plan anything, because you don't know what to do. You are incompetent as well as irresponsible. And this is now sanctioned by numbers. Read the numbers. You don't have to read as pappardella what they wrote to you, but, please, try to understand them, because the numbers speak very clearly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u94	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, once again, the DEF presents itself in full continuity with the policies of recent years: a little relief, a reduction in deferred taxes, cuts in social expenditure, precarious employment and a mountain of privatisation. Also for 2018 this DEF is the faithful mirror of the current European and national debate; it is surfing on sight while waiting for good new ones. There would also be opportunities to draw up appropriate economic policies to relaunch Europe, at least from a political point of view, but - we know - courage is not of these times. 2017 is a crucial year for the European Union; the DEF points out this, but it leaves everything unanswered; we are all waiting for the autumn and the debate on fiscal compact. The government takes time to wait for the results of the Ecofin and the fiscal compact, in the meantime practicing a euro reform of facade that demands more Europe, the reform of the treaties, more flexibility and less rigor, but in reality it is content with the small cabotage and the "0," respectful of unjust and counterproductive rules. A heavy maneuver is expected to slow down the timid growth of GDP, already conditioned by the economic structure of our country and the polarization of income. Roberto Perotti - economist of Bocconi, also called by Palazzo Chigi for a turning point at the spending review - said that there is something profoundly wrong when a Government presents the most important document of public finance, announces objectives that it knows it cannot and does not want to achieve; everyone sees that the king is naked, and no one dares to say it. In fact, there have been many commercials, but the reality is quite different: growth in 2018 and 2019 equal to 1%, the lowest in Europe; tax pressure of 42.3 percent in 2017 and in the next two years will even reach 42.8 percent; but above all, it is not said where the Government will take the money needed to maintain these commitments (taking into account that we will have to find 19.5 billion for 2017 to avoid the increase in VAT and that a structural adjustment will be needed to reduce the deficit by at least 10 billion). The government, in talking about the indicators of Fair and Sustainable Wellness (BES) welcomed the results and progress made by Italy, claiming that the infamous 80 euros have reduced inequalities. Too bad that ISTAT said the opposite: that measure favoured the middle-high classes and not the poor. The picture, then, seems daunting, with the continuation, in small, of the policies followed in recent years: a bit of relief, reduction of the taxes never implemented, little financial resources for the renewal of the contracts of the civil servants, some change for the welfare and a mountain of privatizations, exactly what the Renzi government has done in all these years, carrying forward an economic and fiscal policy fully aligned to the single thought. The precarious nature of work has been strengthened; even with constitutional reform and the reform of public administration, it has tried to focus more on the Commission's powers. On the contrary, our country must intervene forcefully, in all the European fora, taking initiatives for a radical rewriting of the European treaties, removing the pro-cyclical dispositions (such as those of the fiscal compact, in fact) and the separation of the expenditure for investments from the calculation of the structural balance. Without public investment, it is unthinkable that GDP could grow to allow the country to create the necessary resources for financing public sector needs and reducing debt. We must build the foundations for government disobedience, to trigger a real conflict with the Union in order to correct its austerity policies, because resources are needed to finance and promote employment, especially youth employment, and the ecological conversion of the European production system. The Italian Government must take the necessary legislative steps to remove that shameful principle of budgetary balance, to amend, once again, Articles 81, 97 and 119 of the Constitution and to guarantee the protection of fundamental rights. It is urgent, then, to change actually to revitalise widespread and qualified growth, good and full employment, sustainability of public debt. This means applying an alternative economic policy system to the current one for at least three decades, not simply conquering a few decimal places of greater deficits in relation to GDP. Therefore, it means radically changing not only in terms of public finance, but in regulating trade in goods and services, including through the introduction of social and environmental standards, to protect labour, the environment and capital movements, through controls and limits. It means changing industrial policy for discretionary public intervention, in the regulation of the single market, for example through the deletion of the so-called Bolkestein Directive. It is necessary to finance an extraordinary work plan for 200,000 new jobs for a Green New Deal connected to the 5,000 public yards for small works and ecological conversion. It is also necessary to take the necessary measures to ensure the effective universality of the National Health Service, in order to achieve the objective of health expenditure with an impact of 7% on GDP, in particular through the financing of the Essential levels of assistance (LEA) and the National Fund for Non-self-sufficiency, the elimination of supertickets, the reduction of waiting lists and by starting to overcome the turnover block in the health sector. Effective financial measures must be taken in relation to housing policies to increase the supply of housing in public housing. Today the problem of housing is a social emergency. Provision should be made for the establishment of a special fund at the Deposit and Loan Fund for the support of programmes by municipalities for the recovery of unused public buildings of civil and military property for public housing for families located in municipal rankings for access to social housing. The Rent Fund should be refinanced. That is enough with the extraordinary measures in favour of the Mezzogiorno that we have witnessed in recent years. The South Pacts are totally inadequate for the purpose of territorial rebalancing and medium-term economic proposals are needed for the whole of the country and specific aid for the Mezzogiorno, as provided for in the forgotten Ciampi clause for the South. The rise in unemployment in the South is causing a new emigration of young graduates and graduates and it is no coincidence that a study by SVIMEZ shows that if the principle of territorial rebalancing had been applied since 2008 the loss of employment would certainly have been halved. I report some data: 4.6 million Italian citizens live in absolute poverty and 8 million in relative poverty. This too is now an emergency and the intervention cannot be only partial and not at all exhaustive. On the other hand, structural intervention of minimum income is needed, as requested by the Nice Charter and, above all, as necessary to ensure important social rights. There is also a need to increase public investment in education, university training, research and development in order to increase GDP to 3%. It is also necessary to launch an extraordinary plan of stabilisation for the school's historic precariousness and to reduce and progressively eliminate subsidies to fossil fuels through a programme of decarbonisation of our economy, including through a plan of significant reduction and cancellation of public aid and direct and indirect subsidies to these sources, the first responsible for CO2 emissions, pollution and climate change. It is necessary to ensure a National Energy Plan that provides for the centrality of renewable energy sources, with coherent guidelines and incentives that meet the country's real needs, adequate financial means and appropriate and effective incentive procedures and measures, as well as support for technological innovation in the field of renewable energy production. Already in recent weeks we have talked about the need for real public measures and policies of reception and integration for migrants. With reference to the xenophobic debate that we are witnessing these days, with the attack on non-governmental organisations that welcome them, the government urgently calls for action through serious policies to review flows, create cooperation with countries of origin and transit, promote an investment plan to address the underlying causes of the phenomenon of immigration and seek decent living conditions, security and work. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]] Madam President, since my time is running out, I would ask that the full text of the speech be given in order to be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. I shall therefore begin to conclude. These are some of the points contained in the resolution tabled by the Italian Left Senators, on which we will of course vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u95	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u98	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, first of all we must clear the field from a fake news, reported several times these days. The press organs, in fact, repeatedly speak of a so-called little treasure. In fact, it is the Infrastructure Investment Fund, the only novelty of which is to be provided by the Presidency of the Council, even though it is placed at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It can be used in different sectors and for different purposes: from transport, research, public construction and so on. The budget of the Fund, which covers 15 years, from 2017 to 2032, amounts to 47,5 billion and interventions are implemented largely using debt. The absence of a treasure is also certified by the need for a corrective spring manoeuvre, which is also widely foreseen in all our interventions, in order to reduce the deficit in Italian public finances by 0.2 points of GDP. It should also be said that part of that Fund is now allocated to interventions provided for by the so-called maneuver, namely Decree-Law No 50 of 2017, which we will shortly be dealing with. If there had been a treasure at the end of 2016, there would have been no need to introduce safeguard clauses and excise duties for 19.5 billion euros, which instead were foreseen. The safeguard clauses are confirmed even by the maneuver, thus disregarding the forecast of this DEF, which thanks to the provisions of the DEF are weakened, but remain for an amount of approximately 16 billion euros. I would also like to point out that all the forward-looking data of the six programming documents - three DEFs and three updated notes to the DEF (NADEF) - of the Renzi Government have been clearly disregarded. The first DEF of the Renzi Government provided for a zero deficit at the end of 2017, now budget balance is expected for 2020. In the first DEF the debt-to-GDP ratio was expected to fall below 130% in 2016, now it is expected to fall below this level in 2019, thus three years behind. Similarly, GDP growth is lagging behind the expected levels in 2014 of at least a couple of years. This unsatisfactory growth, as Minister Padoan also said in the hearings, took place at a positive time, mainly thanks to exogenous factors. I remember, in addition to the decisions of the ECB, absolutely in favour of our country in recent years, also other elements such as the definition of the price of oil and raw materials and even a growing world demand. On the growth front, the other European countries have on average a rate equal to twice our country, while the economies of other OECD countries make even more important progress, because they have been able to activate dynamics to increase private investments, triggered obviously by the public ones, which by us have instead been provided in an insufficient way in the DEF to our examination. Here another problem arises, because the money borrowed, which technically is called public debt - it is better to call things by their name - have a cost. Regarding the burden on public debt, the 2017 DEF provides for an increasing figure in absolute terms - but which, in our opinion, does not consider in an appropriate way the effect of the gradual and already announced reduction of quantitative easing - and stable in percentage terms, as compared to a growing GDP in real and nominal terms. In fact, the results of government simulations on GDP and other macroeconomic variables appear to be rather optimistic when compared with those of other forecasters. Moreover, little or nothing has been done to increase the productivity of public administration and reduce state spending. Our judgment coincides with that of the European Commission, which in its most recent report on Italy has found that the implementation of the reform of the public administration has recorded - I quote - limited progress. The PNR provides for a reduction in administrative and bureaucratic costs of 18% over seven years, due to the cumulative effect of public administration reform, simplification agenda, broadband strategy, digital growth strategy and fiscal simplification. These measures expect GDP growth of 0.5% over five years, 0.8% over ten years and 1.2% under the scheme. There is certainly an underestimating of expenditure on employee income, which will obviously increase as a result of the latest waves of public recruitment or planned stabilisation. It should be remembered that in 2016 the expenditure on employee income of the general government exceeded 164 billion euros, an increase of about 1.3% compared to the previous year. It accounts for around 23% of the total current expenditure, net of interest due, of the general government profit and loss account. This partly frustrated the downward trend due to the blocking of contractual renewals and turnovers, which saw a 5% decrease in public administration employees between 2007 and 2015. It is worth remembering that in Italy, every seven workers, six are engaged in the productive world and one in the public administrations. Similarly, it is implicit that the burden on the intermediate consumption of central governments is underestimated, even as a result of a still redundant public administration, with improper costs also on citizens and businesses. As far as territorial authorities are concerned, we record the continuation of a dangerous slope towards derived finance, while it would be useful to take the opposite direction from the neo-centralist design of constitutional reform sonorably rejected on December 4 by the Italians. The Government also moves contrary to the same demands of the levels of territorial government, which demand to have more financial and management autonomy, demanding more responsibility and planning. Meanwhile, taxation at municipal level also continues to grow, relying on those few taxes not blocked by last year's budget law. The emblematic case is the TARI, the waste tax, which is transforming into a real asset tax going to tax the square meters, even before the members the family, with burdens now unsustainable. In this it anticipates that reform of the land registry, announced in this DEF, that would give the fatal blow, I would say definitive, to the real estate market and the construction sector, where on the contrary it would need a work of detaxation in order to take off a fundamental and strategic sector for the restart of the entire Italian economy, always based on the savings invested in the brick. Emergency measures to cover some of the local authorities' budgetary gaps, included in the maneuver, deny a DEF which should, on the contrary, serve to implement a medium-term planning of the levels of government closest to the citizens. After the overcoming of an Internal Stability Pact, which has regulated the generous contribution of Regions, Provinces and Municipalities to the achievement of the objective of net debt at national level, now the new rule of budgetary balance cannot only be constituted by a financial year covering that one balance in terms of competence between final revenue and final expenditure. There are still constraints on the use of debt by local and regional authorities, which are allowed exclusively to finance investment expenditure. In this respect, it should be noted that the continuous cuts prescribed to Regions, Provinces and Municipalities to contribute to the public finance objectives have recorded for the territorial authorities that net debt has now fallen to 0.3% and the local government debt to 5% of GDP. The conclusion can be drawn from these considerations that local authorities, which provide visible services to citizens, have played their part. Now the sacrifices are mainly due to the unproductive expenditure of the central state, on which to leverage to reduce net debt and public debt. On the contrary, in this DEF there is still a real plan for the revision of central expenditure, implemented with the measure in the so-called maneuverina and still very far from the numbers estimated in 2014. A chapter in itself deserves the theme of migration. In the Programmatic Document under consideration, the Government goes down in detail and exposes the numbers related to rescue at sea, reception, education and health for migrants, which grow by 1.1 billion in 2017 compared to the previous year, reaching 4.7 billion. On the contrary, for our poor people there are numbers that are far lower than those that were advertised at the signing of the memorandum against poverty: one billion and 180 million for this year for 1,770,000 people, equivalent to 666 euros per year on average, that is 55 euros per month per person. These numbers, which are commented on by themselves, because such measures should support family heads with low incomes. Another important fact, therefore, is that the implicit tax rate on labour in Italy is 44%: the highest tax rate in the European Union, which has an average of 8 points lower. In this sense it would be wrong to reduce social contributions - perhaps only to young people and women, as mentioned in this document - which, in a contributory pension system, would eventually create the new poor of tomorrow. We must reduce taxes on labour - but not as is said in the DEF, moving taxes from people to things - but covering a deep tax cut with an equally visible reduction in state spending, where too much waste is still hidden. In essence, we are still in the presence of a programming document that we consider inadequate to make Italy restart in a decisive way and to bring it back to the pace of growth of the main European countries. That is why I am voting against the motion for a resolution accepted by the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u99	We welcome the students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific Lyceum) Pietro Mazzone di Roccella Gioiosa Jonica, in the province of Reggio Calabria, who attend our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u102	TONINI (PD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, in listening to this long debate on the DEF, between what we have done in the Commission and what happened on this day of Parliament, I have come to mind what, in my view, is perhaps one of the most beautiful books of the Odyssey, the XII, in which we are told of the two councils that the magician Circe gave to Ulysses when he allowed him to resume his journey to Ithaca, to the promised land, the land in which Ulysses wanted to return. The first advice was to watch the sirens. Sirens sing a persuasive song and have a list of fascinating attributes. Circe suggests to Ulysses to listen to that song, because that too must be heard (we could say, translating into prose, that even the song of the demagogues, of the populists must be heard, because it tells us something about the country in which we live), but to take the precautions of the case, to get tied with a robust rope to the tree of the ship: Ulysses must listen to that song, but woe if he then follows that road, because that road leads straight to the rocks, leads to the ruin of the ship and to the sure death of his and the men of his crew. At these long meetings, Madam President, we heard the song of the sirens, who criticize the Government on individual points, also saying things that can be based on individual aspects; basically they criticize the Government because it does not allocate sufficient resources for school, health, welfare, the fight against poverty, public investment, local authorities, public employees who have to renew their contract. It is never enough; it is persuasive the song of the sirens, because it says that for the school we have to do much more, for the search we have to do much more. Then, those same sirens say that, however, we must also lower the tax burden. And there is nothing else to be missed; that we are content to increase the expenditure? We must also reduce revenue and reduce the tax burden. And of course - because otherwise they would not be sirens - we must also reduce the deficit and reduce the debt. All this is said by the same people who, in the heat of their exposition, like sirens, when they sing are not bound to logic, to respect the principle of non-contradiction; they are obliged to produce a beautiful song, which can attract the careless sailors. Personally I prefer - I have printed it in my mind - the same and opposite speech that one of my great predecessors, Beniamino Andreatta, made in 1989, twenty-eight years ago, when he said that there is only one way to reduce debt: to make primary surplus, constantly, for a number of years. And know that producing primary surplus means one very simple thing: to devote less resources to individual sectors than those that are allocated to other European countries, because they are obliged to make less surplus or even can make a modest deficit, since they have not kept the irresponsible policies that we have held in the past years. We must somehow remedy this tough policy, which involves very boring budgetary discipline. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Here then is the second warning - or advice - that Circe gives to Ulysses: past the rock of the sirens, he would have been faced with a bad strait, with Scylla on one side and Chariddi on the other. Scylla represents the risk of our debt failing, the default risk. Everyone has remembered how probably in 2018 the quantitative easing (QE) will end, which was also possible thanks to the prudent policies of the Italian Government. In fact, we must not forget that QE is not a grace that has come to us from afar, but it was also a conquest, the result of a fair policy conducted by our country, which allowed Mario Draghi to make that monetary policy that he could not have done if he could not reassure the Germans by telling them that Italy had set itself on a road of redemption, recovery, reform, change and would not have used those margins only to increase expenditure, but to revive the economy, in a serious and rigorous path of recovery. These effects will end by 2018 and therefore Scylla we have it there, with all its threat, with its six heads that can tear us apart, that maybe are the six heads of the various rating agencies, that lower our credibility by resuming the spread and if this happens we end up again in a financial crisis. That would be a nightmare. However, we cannot even throw ourselves on the other side, because on the other side there is Cariddi, there is the storm of the recession and we cannot pursue a policy of consolidation that does not take account of the objectives of support for growth, because if we do this we end up on the other side, that is, in the storm of recession and we have already ended up in the crisis, when we lost 10 points of gross domestic product. The government is then leading the ship with the caution of Ulysses, avoiding both Scylla and Cariddi. We must, on the one hand, avoid the risk of the debt crisis and, on the other hand, the risk of recession and we are succeeding. Deputy Minister Morando recalled that the most important table in this document of economy and finance is that of the trend. Our tendency, validated by the parliamentary office of the budget and by all the other institutional interlocutors, from the Court of Auditors to the Bank of Italy, to Istat, is finally that of a boat that is following a very narrow and very difficult route, but that has avoided both Scilla and Cariddi, because from year to year the deficit falls and the growth rises. That is, we are avoiding the debt crisis and we are avoiding the recession, indeed for a few years now, we have again reversed, as we consolidate this result, the recession in a growth. Of course we would all like the ship to pass this narrowing faster, but how can we increase the speed of this transit through the Strait of Messina? The ship of Ulysses had two engines: one was the oars and the other was the sail. The oars must move ourselves to make our boat faster and these oars are the reforms. We must move forward on the path of reform significantly, to increase what economists call the potential growth of our system. Total productivity of factors increases by making reforms, i.e. by modernising our public and private system, through market reforms and state reform in a particular way. The subject has been highlighted in all the hearings held in the Budget Commission, by all our interlocutors: while in industry productivity is at decent levels, which make us competitive on international markets, in the services sector we are behind and in particular in the public services sector, where we have to make a qualitative leap. These are the oars. Then there's the sail. Sailing means a European policy that is more attentive to expansion, to the theme of economic growth and to the theme of employment. On this point, a first positive news came on Sunday from France, which we hope will be confirmed in fifteen days: we will soon have a new Franco-German axis, which will certainly put this issue. And this issue, of course, will also confront us with a decisive choice: do we want to be in the leading group that builds the new Europe or do we want to carve out a solitary escape space instead? This is the political theme that this DEF opens up and I believe it is the political theme on which it would be interesting and it would be nice to be able to confront us seriously in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u103	I note that on motion for resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra, accepted by the Government pursuant to Rule 125- bis, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure, amendments have been tabled, whose texts are distributed, which I invite the presenters to explain. I would point out, however, that the time available to the Groups is exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u104	Madam President, I would very quickly like to draw the attention of the Government, and in particular of Deputy Minister Morando, to something he knows about. It is a theme that may seem to go far in time and history, but often leads to discussions and suffering. These are the compensations which must be paid to the Italian citizens of the territories transferred to Yugoslavia and to the States which were then taken over. This is at a time when the processes of European integration have seen, in the various stages, countries of that geographical area, in the new political and state conformations that have been determined, entering the European Union, with a process that is then continuing. In view of all this, the need to define once and for all compensation issues is desirable. The subject has emerged on several occasions, also in bilateral meetings, even recently, in recent days, of the Foreign Minister Alfano, who went to the various States of the former Yugoslavia and Deputy Minister Morando knows the issue, for having addressed it. Amendment 4.1 seeks to draw the Government's attention to this issue, which has been pending for more than seventy years and which, sooner or later, needs to be defined. I also propose it here because, with regard to Libya, where there has been a more recent exodus, solutions have been found. Therefore, the people who have been driven out before, want an answer that, in addition to an economic value, also has a moral value, in this climate of recomposition of history that cannot see forgotten Italian citizens who want to feel such in all respects. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking very briefly on two points. The first is the commitment to the Government to take concrete action to reduce the tax burden. This is one of the main points: the reduction of the tax burden and a concrete cut in unproductive spending that brings down in a vertical way the public debt, which is, in fact, the biggest obstacle to the development of the country's economy, with dramatic repercussions on the levels of social cohesion, even for the aspects related to the levels of social protection and guarantee of access to the National Health Service. I would just add a reference, Mr President, to Table 28: maximum commitment to support with solidarity the reception policies, to which we allocate EUR 4.2 billion. This is an enormous sum which probably asks us in relation to the need to balance this sum with that for social pensions. A non-EU student costs 45 euros per day; a social pensioner lives with just over 500 euros per month.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u106	Madam President, I would like to mention some of the commitments that the Government, indeed all governments usually make and then fail to carry out. I leave out an intervention in favour of a flywheel, dedicated to the internationalization of the enterprises also through the infrastructures, asking for adequate resources for the completion of the foothills of Veneto so that that connection with the Brenner and the markets of Northern Europe is realized substantially. I would prefer, Madam President, to be able to insist on the method of the family quotient in order to reduce the taxation of households which is so heavily burdened on households, as well as on giving full implementation to that plan of spending review, already brilliantly prepared by former Commissioner Cottarelli, which ended instead of forgetting. I conclude by quoting an amendment that commits the Government to reducing public spending through the real and concrete implementation of the so-called standard costs and, finally, taxation on the first house, especially when it does not produce any income for families but becomes a burden.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u107	Madam President, I have tabled four amendments which I have partly already tabled in the course of the general debate, except the last one, on which I would like to say a few words. In these days it is the fourth anniversary of the massacre of the Rana Plaza in Bangladesh, in which more than 1,200 workers died from the collapse of a building. I believe that respect for human rights and respect for workers' rights should not only exist on our continent and in our nation, but must involve all societies more widely. In this sense, I would like the Government to undertake to act in all international and Community fora in order to make concrete the possibility of introducing a premium system for companies operating in respect of human rights and workers' rights and perhaps sanctioning those who do not. I realize that this is a very ambitious project, but I think it is a project that needs to be taken into account and carried out in the appropriate fora. The United Nations has already dealt with it, with guiding principles on business and human rights, which are an excellent tool from which strong action could be developed, at European level first and foremost, to advance this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u108	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u109	Madam President, I am opposed to all the amendments tabled, but not to the substance. I would like to point out that the content of many of them is acceptable, but the resolution before us has been formulated and presented with the support of all the forces of the majority, so that the adoption of an amendment would mean having to review everything and I cannot do so instantly. For this reason, the opinion is negative on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u110	Madam President, as you know, the resolution on the Economic and Financial Document provides binding guidelines to the Government for the preparation of the budget law. For this reason it must be, first and foremost, shared with the House of Deputies, because the Government cannot, when preparing the budget law, receive indications from the Parliament of a contradictory type. Secondly, it must be shared, at a meeting between the majority and the government, which actually took place at the stage before this House. The amendments have been tabled in the last place and there are a significant number of them. Of these, 23 amendments are part of the resolutions that we rejected, and we voted in favour of the majority resolution. For this reason, I agree with the rapporteur's opinion. Allow me, Madam President, to dedicate a moment to Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Gasparri, because it deals with an issue that exists and is real: there has been unequal treatment on the part of the country in relation to the situation represented. For this reason, I believe that it deserves to be examined in depth, even in order to be, at least partially, addressed. I therefore address Senator Gasparri, stressing that this is a matter on which the Government intends to develop an initiative, to ask him to withdraw his amendment in such a way that it is not rejected by the Senate Assembly following the indication of the Government and the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u111	Senator Gasparri, do you adhere to the government's invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u112	Madam President, taking note of the position of the Government, which also knows the matter personally, as the Deputy Minister says, and which intends to address it in order to fill that discrepancy of assessments made for one exodus and the other, I withdraw amendment 4.1 in order to prevent the successful outcome of this issue from being undermined in a too hasty assessment. I trust that the Government will be available, which I welcome, so that, in the seats that we can identify, the issue, which is at the attention of all the institutions of the Republic, no one excluded, can find a solution, in time and in appropriate ways. As for the times, more than seventy years have passed, so the problem is more than the ways. I withdraw amendment 4.1 on this basis.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u113	As an opinion, so to speak, procedural, rather than substantive, the one expressed by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, I ask whether there is anyone else among the presenters who intends to withdraw their amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u116	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I withdraw Amendments 4.15, 4.27, 4.28 and 4.33.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u117	Amendment 4.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u120	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for a separate vote on Amendment 4.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u121	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 4.2 tabled by Senator Bulgarelli. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2. CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u124	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I paid due attention to President Tonini's speech just now; a mythological, Homeric speech, as oscillating between Scilla and Cariddi (verbatim). I would have liked to follow him on the same level by talking about the "Anabasi" of Senofonte, about the strategy of those who poison the wells, and this I believe indicates very much the current strategy of the government. I try to adopt a less dramatic register: the fairy tale of the ant and the cicada of Esopus, with an adaptation. In this case the cicada is of extreme kind: it is a cicada that has killed the ant before. In the documents you have given us it appears that the economic effect, between cuts and taxes, of the Monti Government, produced of a violent democratic twist and passepartout for the subsequent Governments, it's encrypted to 200 billion. You say it, we don't say it. The ant lived its next life with an evolution of its species: excited, hallucinated, finally drugged. And it's today. It has been said: we will be the locomotive of Europe, there is no more for anyone. It seems to me that the other day President Renzi spoke of a very great treasure available: what happened to him? Now the ant is suicidal, but the serious one is that it does not only kill itself: in doing so it also kills Italy. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI), LN-Aut and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u125	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.15 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.16, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.18, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by Senators Mazzoni and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.23, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.25, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.27 and 4.28 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.29, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.30 tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.31, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u128	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak in order to keep in the minutes the fact that we have voted on the amendments in a disciplined manner, just as we have observed, by institutional grace, the rite of these votes. However, I would like to ask you a question. First Deputy Minister Morando said that he expressed an opinion against all the amendments because, if an indication had come from this House to the government different from the one that was now voting in the Chamber of Deputies, the Government would have been in difficulty. Frankly, I didn't expect a justification of this kind. I repeat that we have voted in a disciplined way, but we have voted in tending to be useless, because it was not possible for an amendment to be adopted. I'm just telling you the truth of the story. We have had an operation, from a parliamentary point of view, which is completely useless. So I would like it to remain, for the next time, that it will probably be in the next parliamentary term, an indication of how this issue should be dealt with in a completely different way. It is in fact not imaginable that on the document of greater importance from the economic point of view for the country, that is the DEF, we are voting a majority resolution that cannot be modified, because the modification of a Chamber could not then be transposed by the other House. We're doing, forgive me, a perfectly useless operation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u129	Senator Romani, the question is that of a bicameral deliberation by a procedure that is not the legislative one. As you know, this matter has been discussed. I believe, however, that the motion for a resolution drawn up by the Government and the majority took into account the debate held in the Commission, both in the House and in the Senate. However, the question is that of convergence of texts and deliberations which do not make the shuttle, but which in parallel are moving towards a common objective.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u132	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to say that it is not possible for the House to table amendments to the motion for a resolution on the DEF. So it's always gonna happen that we're gonna do a worthless job here. I just wanted to explain this little mechanism.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u133	The individual MEP's freedom of vote remains, despite the rapporteur's and the government's opinion against it, so voting is never unnecessary from this point of view. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.32, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.33 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12 2, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators,
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u136	CASINI (AP-CpE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you for a moment of silence because I have a certainly not pleasant fulfillment. With the heart crushed and with a great emotion, I announce to this Senate the disappearance, occurred in the early hours of this afternoon, of Giorgio Guazzaloca, former mayor of the city of Bologna from 1999 to 2004. Where to start? I could recall his extraordinary associative experience, first as president of Confcommercio, then as president of the Chamber of Commerce, always as national president of the Federmacellai (not by chance many, remember him as the most famous butcher in Italy). Subsequently, he was a member of the Antitrust and Mediobanca Board of Directors. But the arid listing of these assignments is of little use; it is likely to mean nothing. Giorgio Guazzaloca was the extraordinary and singular protagonist of the first and only historical defeat of the Left in the city of Bologna, probably anticipating the fall of one of the most significant walls of the West. In this capacity all the newspapers, European and world, have spoken about it, and for this reason it has been known by Italian public opinion. However, today the whole city mourns him, above and before the political groups. The first citizen, Mayor Merola, to the last Bolognese, grieve in this great pain. After years and years of unspeakable suffering, which began a few months after his election as mayor, who have marred his physicist and his existence, today we can well say that the human parable of one of the symbolic personalities of our city has ended. I do not know if the times we live produce more people of this thickness, but I know that Guazzaloca has condensed all the symbols of Bolognese: a humble family man, he has made his way alone on a tormented path, which has led him to remain widowed with two teenage daughters and to face, almost as if by bet, the tormented paths of political life. Giorgio takes away a piece of our city because it has always been Bologna: from the cult of the Madonna of San Luca, cultivated secularly, to wandering around as mayor under the arcades and among the towers of our city; from the statue of San Petronio returned to the Bolognese, to the love for the red-blue colors and for our football team since the 1964 championship. He left today, but perhaps, in fact, he had left us much earlier. It will always accompany us, however, its innate bolognesity, its intellectual honesty at the limit of the provocative, marked by a high and noble vision of politics and its ethical rigour. Colleagues, if I may, I would like to conclude not with my words, certainly veiled by a very deep personal friendship; I would like to quote the words of Professor Prodi, of the Bolognese Democratic Party, but I will end with synthetic words of the president of the regional council of Emilia-Romagna, who said a few words that I believe Giorgio would have been very pleased to hear. He recalled this mayor: "He served his city with discipline and honor." Thank you, Giorgio. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u137	Thank you, President Casini. The Presidency joins with heartfelt participation in the mourning of the family and the city of Bologna, as well as its staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u140	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I sincerely wish to join in the mourning for the death of Giorgio Guazzaloca. Those who preceded me have already explained why Giorgio Guazzaloca was a special man and not only and not so much because he created a Copernican revolution in Bolognese mayorship, as President Casini recalled, winning for the first time after a sequence of mayors belonging to another political color, always the same, but because he was the first to introduce a deep sense of civicity in our city. Allow me, Madam President, to make a few notations before I finish, thanking you again for the opportunity you give me. Giorgio Guazzaloca was the true, deep and healthy expression of civic commitment in politics. It has been a life of association and it has done so convincingly and it has shown to all of us that politics is not only done in parliamentary classrooms or municipal fora, but also every day, working on a common plan together with its members, professional groups and its citizens. He has done so with great coherence, determination and profound humanity. There is nothing that can add to what my fellow Members have said before me, except a deep and sincere regret, for an event that we all unfortunately expected. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that already in 1999 his mayorship was marred by the disease. A few months after his election he became ill, but despite this he continued to work with courage, determination and with that commitment, which is not only civic commitment, but is also sentimental commitment and love, because what he did in the years in which he was mayor, despite the illness and despite the fact that he was defeded in the body, he constituted a constant and continuous declaration of love to his city. Therefore, I could not and would not have avoided this manifestation of deep sorrow and sorrow, and I thank you again, Madam President, for giving me the opportunity. It's always terrible when someone so important walks away from us. He was so important because he gave us an example and represented a guide, for a city that we have lived and that we still live with great participation, also religious: in this regard President Casini recalled his devotion to Our Lady of St Luke. The mourning is now a matter that we must consume with our family members. I join the pain and hope that the memory of Giorgio Guazzaloca, in a city like Bologna, that he loved so much, will never die. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u143	Mr Finocchiaro, Minister for Relations with Parliament. Madam President, the Government supports the condolences expressed in this House by many Members for the disappearance of Giorgio Guazzaloca.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u146	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, before I speak on the subject for which I have asked for the floor, I would like to focus on the disappearance of Giorgio Guazzaloca, Mayor of Bologna, for all of us as a reference and political confrontation, and for me personally also as a political contrast but always of great personal friendship. I would like to share the condolences expressed to the family members and the words spoken by those who preceded me. Giorgio Guazzaloca was a man of the city. When he was mayor he was not a man of the right, nor of the left, but mayor of the city. He has carried out his function with the dignity, competence and capacity that we have all recognized him. Madam President, as I said earlier, I asked to speak on another subject. I apologize if I've made this digression, but I know that humanly he will grant it to me. The other subject I would like to focus on is the following. I ask the presidency of the Senate to be an interpreter towards the government of our country so that it can give us information as soon as possible and report on the situations that are taking place in Venezuela. You remember that only a couple of months ago we voted on a motion on Venezuela, on its tragic situation, on the democratic defeat and on the attack on democracy in progress in the country. Since then there have been dozens and dozens of deaths, new incarcerations and the stiffening of a clash between the country, Parliament and the President of the Republic, who dismissed Parliament and arrested the parliamentarians. Venezuela is an apparently distant country, but not so far as to make us forget that more than 250,000 of our fellow countrymen live there and that, in its various historical epochs, Italy has built and consolidated with it a relationship of loyal and frank friendship. Venezuela is not so far away as to make us perceive the victims of these days as if they were victims of another world, because it is the world of civilization that is offended and these victims belong to us all. The Venezuelan opposition now largely represents the majority of the population, the Venezuelan Parliament is destitute of its legitimacy and Members are arrested. In the squares of Venezuela, even today, in these hours, there are massive demonstrations of people. All this happens while Venezuela threatens to leave the Organization of American States (OSA) and there are very difficult mediation interventions on the part of the Holy See to try to find a transitional solution that President Maduro rejects. We are faced with a situation that can make the condition of a population that is already hit by a very serious economic crisis really terrible. I would remind you that this year Venezuela has an inflation rate of 500 per cent, a very heavy famine and the lack of fundamental medicines. The population is exhausted. There is an absolute need for democratic accountability for all its citizens and, in particular, for those opposition leaders who have been imprisoned for some time. I therefore ask, on behalf of the Group, that the Government return to the Assembly to report on the situation in Venezuela and that it be interpreted, in the appropriate international offices, by the United Nations, to those relating to Latin America, up to the same Holy See, of all the necessary initiatives to restore democratic legality in that country and to give the sense that Italy is on the side of a people, that cannot be treated as it is treated in these days, but that it has its dignity and that, as such, it must be able to express itself democratically. I therefore ask the presidency of the Senate to interpret this sentiment of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u147	The Presidency will interpret it. The Minister for Relations with Parliament is also here and I believe that he will be able to represent to the President of the Council of Ministers and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation the request made by Senator Sangalli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, we should now move on to the follow-up to the debate on draft law 2085.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u151	MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE). Madam President, I would ask you to postpone the continuation of the debate on the draft law to the next sitting, including for reasons of internal coordination, both between the rapporteurs and between the majority groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u152	If there are no objections, this postponement could also allow many committees that need to meet this afternoon. Since the President-in-Office's communications are scheduled for 11 a.m. tomorrow's afternoon sitting, we could begin the examination of the measure concerning the annual market and competition law at 9.30 a.m. and continue until 11 a.m. As no comments are made, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u155	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I would like to bring to your attention, or rather to urge you, given the activation of some of my colleagues in this regard, together with the local realities, the issue of the manufacture of Shower. The Richard-Ginori, today controlled by GRG srl (Gucci-Richard Ginori) owes its origin to the manufacture of Doccia, founded in 1735 by the Marquis Carlo Ginori in the homonymous locality near Colonnata, in the Municipality of Sesto Fiorentino, in the Province of Florence. It is famous all over the world for porcelain, whose production is still located in Sesto Fiorentino, despite the merger with the industrial group with the Milanese Richard. Specifically, the historical and artistic importance is given by the relative Richard-Ginori Museum of the Manufacture of Shower, adjacent to the current plant, which collects the production of the manufacture from its foundation, and indeed contains works made by Richard-Ginori in its centuries-old history: a more unique historical and artistic value than rare, which inextricably binds factory and territory. The museum is also equipped with a playful and educational section for children, a library, a photo library and an archive, which allow you to acquire a complete documentation of the historical production of the manufacture. However, in 2013, following the bankruptcy of the company in question and its acquisition by the Gucci group, the museum was closed to the public. However, the bankruptcy treatment allowed the continuation of the activity for almost a year, until May 2014. Afterwards two auctions were succeeded with the aim of finding a buyer for the museum, which collects over two centuries of history of the prestigious Tuscan manufacture, among the absolute excellences of Made in Italy, respectively in 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, both auctions closed without offers. The Richard-Ginori Museum is in a state of abandonment. The Friends of Shower are members of the association that since 2003 has been working for the enhancement of the historical and artistic heritage of the museum, they have long hoped for a public intervention or the descent in the field of a group of private individuals and institutions able to pilot a possible revival. Moreover, it is necessary to consider the negotiation, now in progress for considerable time, between the company Richard-Ginori and the banking institutions (Unicredit, BNL and People of Vicenza) owners of the land where the factory stands. In this regard, on the day of tomorrow, 27 April, a new table is convened at MISE with credit institutions and property to try to bring the parties in the purchase of land, which is precisely the condition that the company does not abandon the territory. And in fact, the events, different but interwoven, of the museum and the land, show how the permanence of the factory in Sesto Fiorentino and the reopening of the museum would be the best scenario for all the actors involved: company, creditors, workers, reality of the territory active for the rebirth of the museum, citizens of Sestesi. I conclude, therefore, calling for the direct intervention of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, that is, with the help of private resources and in collaboration with the territorial authorities and the Tuscany Region, in the acquisition of the Doccia museum and the collections present there, thus avoiding the loss of a great artistic, historical and cultural heritage, also considered that various solutions are conceivable in order to its valorization.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u156	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-812.ana.u157	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 27 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.02 p.m.
