ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 2 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, meeting today, taking into account the various topics already planned and not concluded in previous weeks, has adjusted the hours of this week's sessions. This afternoon the debate on the related bill on poverty will continue until the vote on the amendments is concluded; explanations of vote and the final vote on the measure will take place at the afternoon sitting on Thursday 9 March. The discussion of the resolution of the Foreign and Defence Committees on Italy's participation in international missions will take place, until its conclusion, in the afternoon session of tomorrow. At 4 p.m., the groups will remember 8 March with speeches of five minutes each. The other topics provided for in the timetable remain confirmed. The agenda for Wednesday 15 March can be supplemented, subject to agreements with the Chamber of Deputies, by the debate on the motion of individual distrust of the Minister of Sport.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u7	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me that there should be a vote on the timetable, given that we have left the Conference of Group Leaders without a unanimous decision, so I believe that it should be put to the vote first. Secondly, as you know, I absolutely do not agree that the motion of no confidence against Mr Lotti will be scheduled next Wednesday, because we need to make it clear on this point. I would like to begin by thanking you for having called the Conference of Leaders, but in that place Senator Zanda has raised a very pretentious question in my opinion, because he has highlighted the problem that our motion of distrust has been filed in both branches of Parliament, which has already happened many times before, and yet this objection has never been raised when we have been asked to schedule motions of distrust on other occasions. I can well say that because, when I happened to replace the Parent Company as a deputy vicar leader at the Conference of the Leaders, I myself requested at least twice the timing of a motion of individual distrust which was also presented to the Chamber of Deputies and this objection was not raised. It is clear, therefore, that the Democratic Party has a pretentious intention, because there are clearly no arguments against a clear and clean calendarization of this motion of distrust. That being said, as far as we are concerned, the motion of censure is scheduled for next Wednesday, because, in our view, there is no question on which an agreement should be reached. It seems clear to us that from the first moment a political force calls for the convening of a Conference of Leaders within which it calls for the scheduling of a measure, its intention is to schedule that act, discuss it and vote on it in this House and that there is no other intention. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, not to be taken by Senator Zanda for a walk, because it is clear that the intention of the objection he raised was to take the group leaders present here for a walk, and to waste time on all of us when the motion of censure could be scheduled for 15 March without any provision. I would therefore like to clarify and clarify this, because what has happened is serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u8	Senator Montevecchi, I'd like to go for a walk, but we're here to decide on these issues. Since the motion of no confidence has been tabled in both branches of Parliament, it is sufficient to withdraw it in one House to make the other automatically concerned, without any misunderstanding. In any case, until this happens or if this does not happen, it is a practice that when two themes lie in two Chambers, there is a contact, a prior agreement, an understanding by the Presidents. The possible conflict can therefore be resolved immediately with the withdrawal of the motion in one of the two Chambers. However, the motion of no confidence is already scheduled for Wednesday next week. That is the clarification I think you have asked for.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u11	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, in addition to my colleague's request, I would like to add a further request to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u12	Senator Crimes, I have to interrupt you because the calendar hasn't been modified, so there's no option to insert any other changes or changes. Of course, you can express your requests, but it is my job to warn you. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, until proven otherwise, from what I have heard from you, new topics have been included in the timetable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not. CRIMI (M5S). We are talking about the same motion of no confidence as Mr Lotti. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Subject to agreement, by agreement, it is therefore not officially included. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, you have just said so, in reply to my colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me if I interrupt you, but Senator Montevecchi knows very well that on leaving the Conference of the Leaders I have specified that there was no change in the timetable, so this was specified in the context of that meeting. Of course, I give the floor to ensure that the requests are implemented, even in the light of the continuation of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u13	I will now tell you what my request was, because I still feel that I do not understand: just now you said that it is calendarized regardless of the understanding, while now you have spoken of the understanding.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u14	I was not clear: I said that if the motion is withdrawn from the House there is no problem because it would be pending in a single Chamber, i.e. in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u15	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I still cannot comprehend - it is my limit, of course - the logic of the 'if' is inserted or 'if' is not included on the calendar. It means that if we withdraw the motion from the House, it will be understood to be inserted here and, at that moment, I can make a request for a change of the calendar, perhaps tomorrow or after tomorrow. Since it is included, in fact, you must give the opportunity to make the request for amendment. Having said that, Mr President, I think once again that I urgently urge the treatment of Senator Minzolini's decadence. It's been seven months and this topic is always in line. At every Conference of the Leaders there is always, but in the queue and in every Leader group is put back in line, because other measures arrive, not always urgent. Let me read a few words. In the case of Mr Previti, in 2007, these words were spoken in the Chamber: It is a fulfillment that is part of our duties and to which we must provide for the respect that is due to the rules of the Constitution and the law, fundamental respect for democratic life and for civil coexistence. This is the point that has motivated and which must motivate our determinations, our motivations: compliance with the rules, this and only this is what we are referring to. (...) What we are celebrating here today is not a judgment on the merits of the accusations made in the trials of Mr Previti. It doesn't belong to us. We are called upon to take note of a decision made by the judiciary in three degrees of judgment, and passed to judgment in the judgment of the Court of Cassation. We must take note of this and take responsibility for the subsequent decisions which are only the responsibility of this House. (...) It is not possible in any way, with any argument, to complicate the reality of the facts that is, on the contrary, extremely simple: a citizen permanently banned from public offices is no longer the holder of electoral rights, can no longer vote and consequently can no longer be elected, and if he has already been elected and is a Member of Parliament who lapses from his mandate under Article 66 of the Constitution, or resigns. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, about the victory of one side over the other, it is simply about the truth of the facts and it is about fulfilling the duty - our duty in this circumstance - to respect the rules laid down by the Constitution and by law. These are the words spoken by President Mattarella on 31 July 2007 in the case of Mr Previti's forfeiture. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u16	Instead of this quote, he could make his own words, so much the theme is the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u19	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, you have rightly reported to us that the timetable has not been changed, but I cannot help but remind you again in this House - because this House must be fully aware of this - that, once again, we have asked for some certainty that the measure on citizenship may finally come into discussion in this House, which continues to be present only with the term 'where it is concluded'. I am very sorry to say this, Mr President, but it is days, weeks, months that many members of the Senate make promises, even at demonstrations of children, and when, then, at the meeting of the Leaders, the assumption of responsibility to remove the diction is not done. You say that it is a question of goat wool; it is not, Mr President, because this measure has been in the Senate for a year, after it was approved in the House, many amendments have been tabled in the Commission, the situation is not unblocked and the measure is not even on the agenda and I have always considered - because this has always been the case in this legislature - that every time the measures have been included on the calendar, in order to be dealt with, even if they have not been concluded in the Commission, they have finally been released, in one way or another. In the end, however, everyone assumes their responsibilities. So, Mr President, I know that it is not possible to put it to the vote, but I believe that it is absolutely necessary - and I say this also to the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro - that we are aware of what is happening, because we are playing with the lives of about one million women, men, girls and children, who are born in this country, who consider themselves Italian in all respects, who make their contribution, but who are unable to have the chance to obtain a fullness of rights and citizenship of their homeland, of what they consider their country. Then, out of all hypocrisy, everyone takes responsibility, because I cannot allow this legislature to pass without finally passing a serious and worthy law of a civil country, such as the one we are examining on citizenship. Everyone made sacrifices and we also wanted it better, but we accepted, as happened in the case of the measure on unaccompanied minors, to make our contribution to speed up, but other groups, of a majority, which have much greater responsibilities, obviously prefer to give propaganda out, while here they operate exactly in the opposite direction. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u20	Senator De Petris, we will keep your requests in mind at the next Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u23	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I did not understand and did not understand - perhaps I was distracted - when the measure to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system was examined in this House. This examination is scheduled to take place on 21 February, but, in fact, we come to this House and the measure is never examined. I would like to understand when the debate on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system will actually take place. I also ask - and I will be harassing you on this every day, because I have decided that every day I will make a speech in this House - when the measure to set up a Committee of Inquiry into Il Forteto will be examined. I would remind you that there has been a vote to declare the urgency of this measure and that it has already been 30 days in the Justice Commission. I therefore ask that the next timetable also include examining the measure for setting up a Commission of Inquiry into Il Forteto. I will see you tonight for my speech in this House. [[Applause from Senator Paglini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u24	We will take account of your demands, Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u25	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2494, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 2241 and 2437. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 2 March the general discussion was concluded and the replies of the rapporteur, the minority rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u26	Mr President, the amendments we have tabled are more than one, but what we wanted to get through is that it is not appropriate to delete what works. The introduction of the general rule to be managed at national level would mean that at territorial or regional level all structures that already provide excellent assistance would be substantially expropriated. We would be of the idea that what works must be left behind and what does not work will eventually be changed. Keeping one or more regional measures, at least in those regions where the welfare system works, seemed more than reasonable to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to explain in particular Amendment No 1,116, focusing on it. One of the biggest problems that the current economic crisis is highlighting is precisely related to health care and the impossibility for many people to have access to the drug, which is the essential good with which we take care. Precisely the excessive fragmentation of our health system is one of the main causes of the waste and disservices that characterize the welfare network of the country. I propose with Amendment No 1,116 some very simple things. In order to rationalise our resources, the patient should be placed in a position to better follow the treatment prescribed by the doctor, with a check that the pharmacist, in the community pharmacy, can carry out for the benefit of the citizen. In fact, the treatment and function of the doctor in determining a diagnosis can be frustrated by the fact that the patient does not take the medicine in concrete and in the right way. Being able to put the patient at the center of the health net is the absolute certainty that that prescription, which certainly has an important cost, is not wasted, in the awareness that the reduction of waste allows you to find spaces also to give more assistance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u28	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u29	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u30	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. For subsequent amendments, if necessary, I shall make the request again, once again. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4. CUOMO (PD). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Divine and other senators, up to the words "more measures." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.13. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u34	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to speak on this amendment which seeks to include, after the words: 'dignified level of life', the words 'as indicated in the European Parliament's resolution 2010/2039.' It is a little strange that this measure, a bill of delegation, arrives in the Senate after a single passage to the House and that here it has been expressed contrary to all the amendments both in the Commission and in the House. In practice, I believe that we are saying that this Senate, after seven months of placing the measure in the Commission, must not speak about a measure that should concern not absolute nothingness, but as many as 4.6 million Italians living under the absolute poverty line and 9 million Italians living under the relative poverty line. Yet this measure does not touch these Italians at all. Why do I say he doesn't touch them at all? Because not only is it not indicated the threshold to which reference is made, not only is there a look at the ISEE, but it is said no to an amendment which proposes and introduces a general criterion established by the Italians themselves and enshrined in a European Parliament resolution written in 2010. Therefore, seven years after Italy decides that poverty and the fight against poverty are not a priority for this Government, for this majority and for this Parliament and for the Italian citizens this must know. In the European Parliament's resolution there are precise criteria and thresholds which refer not to any threshold but to the data of the European Institute of Statistics, and this Government does not yet take this into account. It has been seven years and the Italians continue to be fooled by these classrooms, this majority, this government and - allow me, President Grasso - by these practices or customs that have little democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u35	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u38	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, with Amendment 1.23 we want to introduce specific rules of a sanctioning nature to be applied to all persons who are the recipients or those responsible for the administrative processes of delivery of this possible income of social inclusion who carry out unlawful acts. (17:01) (Follow Mr Puglia) I believe it is essential, in fact, to prevent illegal behaviour by means of a specific and timely sanction. Italians cannot, in fact, once again be faced with persons who receive allowances not due to them, because of whom honest people are the ones who lose money. I am referring, for example, to benefits due to disabled people: over the years we have not sanctioned smart people and then we had to get angry, unfortunately reducing the benefits also for honest people who really have problems. As with false disabilities, the same phenomenon can also be seen with regard to measures to combat poverty. It would therefore be appropriate, in our view, to introduce specific regulations and do so immediately and we therefore call for a vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u39	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u42	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, on the basis of Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I would ask that we speak on the order of business. In fact, the House of Deputies has just informed us that the motion of no confidence presented by the 5 Star Movement and filed in the Chamber of Deputies has been withdrawn and, therefore, we must officially acknowledge that the timetable has been changed. Therefore, I would like to put to the vote the proposal made by Senator Crimi earlier on document III of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys on the forfeiture of Senator Augusto Minzolini's office as Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u43	Senator Montevecchi, it seems to me that President Grasso has already said quite clearly that, at this time of the debate, this request is not acceptable. We take note of the news that you have given us about what has happened in the House of Deputies, but we must move on with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u45	He has the right to do so, but only for further clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u46	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I should like to ask you if you can kindly quote the Rule of the Senate Rules of Procedure which supports your reply. We call on a Rule of the Rules of Procedure and I would like to understand what Rule of the Rules of Procedure you are appealing to answer me in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u47	We have already said, even before, at the Conference of Leaders, that this is a competence of the Conference of Leaders. I would therefore say that, from this point of view, we cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u48	Then we ask for an immediate convocation of the Conference of the Leaders to take note of the fact that there has been this understanding and therefore definitively sanction the calendarization of the motion of distrust to Minister Lotti for Wednesday 15 March 2017, as decided at the Conference of the Leaders, having fallen the clause that did not allow the official calendarization of this motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u49	It will be my job to report to the President. In the meantime, let's continue with our work. ENDRIZZI (M5S). You're the president now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u52	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would ask you to cancel this vote and all previous votes because, in accordance with Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, votes can be considered null and void because there are several ballots placed in places where the senators are not present. Since, at national level, the subject of the smart cards is followed by everyone and on it we make our considerations, in this case even on the benches of the government is placed from the beginning of the discussion a card and this affects the validity of the vote. [[Brusio]] I would therefore ask you to cancel all the votes immediately, because in several benches various ballots are inserted in a non-regular way. I would also ask you, once and for all, to make public the names of the senators and members of the government who put their ballots and go away, feeding their diary. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] CARDINALI (PD). Stop it! Shut up! Mr Albano (PD). Stop!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u53	I invite you to use the appropriate terms in the Chamber, Senator Santangelo, otherwise I will have to take your word off. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] I'm asking Senators Secretary to do a background check. Please cooperate. Anyone who has empty posts next to them with cards entered, hand them over to the secretary senators who are coming to retrieve them. SANTANGELO (M5S). Now let's get started! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Check it out. I call for the cooperation of the seated senators and the assistants of this House. Please withdraw the forms entered in the empty seats because it is right that these cards should not be entered at the time we are voting. Did we pick up all the cards or are there any more? SANTANGELO (M5S). No, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, I do not cancel the previous vote. We have done so on other occasions. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that! You have to cancel them! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not think, among other things, that I have identified any senator who has voted in place of the other, so we have taken note of your comment and now we are pursuing it with the work. I'd say the subject can be closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u55	On what subject, Senator Santangelo? SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, you decide on which Rule: pursuant to Rule 92 (1), on the order of business if you are okay with it, but the previous speech is not at all concluded because I referred to Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, which specifically states that 'In any case of irregular voting,' - and therefore again - 'the President, having appreciated the circumstances, may cancel or arrange for its immediate renewal, either by electronic means or without electronic procedure'. Now if, despite having verified not the vote by some absent senator because that is not what I pointed out to her, but the presence of cards in places of absent senators, for the President this is not a violation, then she will assume responsibility for the failure to cancel the votes but also for the creation of a very important precedent and I ask that this be put to the record, so that citizens, outside, can really understand that if you come to the Senate, put the card and go away, you can safely take the diary without voting, so without performing your duties. So you have the choice, Madam President, because it is your turn.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u56	I would very much like to take responsibility for what I am saying. No violations have been reported, as I have not been told by anyone that a senator has voted in place of his neighbor. I had all the cards removed. Therefore, it goes on for me. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Liuzzi]] I would declare the matter closed. However, I call on all Members to hand over the ballots, to take them with them when they leave the Chamber, so that such disputes, which are legitimate, no longer take place. With everyone's attention, I believe that the work can continue quietly. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u59	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I always speak on the same subject. To be precise, the decision of the Presidency Council says that, in the event of a vote, when the Senator has the ballot box included in the voting mechanism, but is not present, the President himself must state the name of the absent senator to put it on the record. Given that it has not been possible to do this because the cards have been withdrawn, I believe that the annulment of a vote would close the speech and we could move on with the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u60	I take note of your speech. Indeed, we could not do as much as you ask. We take note of this and put it on record. Technically you can't do it anymore and I'd move on with the work. The debate is closed. SANTANGELO (M5S). I asked to do it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.36.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u63	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, I rise to declare my vote against Amendments 1,33 and 1,34 and to give an explanation of vote on Amendment 1,36. Amendment 1.36 aims to eliminate the parameter by which this Government wants to quantify poverty in Italy, i.e. the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE). I invite everyone to read the Istat report, from which it emerges in a specific way how the ISEE is an inadequate tool to perceive and quantify the discomfort of Italian citizens. We therefore propose another indicator, the Eurostat indicator, which indicates the poverty risk threshold and which is also taken up by the European Parliament and Istat. With the measure put in place using the ISEE you will be able to give very, very low support and to help very few people. For the moment we are talking about absolute poverty alone, which is 4.5 million poor people and about 1.5 to 1.6 million children. I want to tell you quickly the story of a family to make you understand what we are talking about, because every comma, word and conjunction that is written in a norm affects the fate of a child, a family, a grandfather, an Italian citizen. I want to tell you how the measure of the Support for Active Inclusion (IAS), implemented by this Government, is inadequate and has left one of the many Italian families on foot and abandoned, even with an ISEE that would allow them to access the measure. [[Brusio]] I understand that we are talking about poor people and that there are other priorities for this House, such as procurement, banks and insurance. I understand that the priorities are not people at risk of poverty and poverty in Italy, workers and Italian citizens. I do not understand, however, why we in this House continue to talk about everything, thinking only of our own interests and not respecting a senator of the Republic who is intervening. A family in Palermo, like many Italian families, has unfortunately been abandoned because it has not acquired the sufficient score provided by SIA to obtain that minimum income support (about 100 euros) to be able to do the shopping. We are talking about an unemployed and disabled father at 50%, an unemployed and disabled mother at 50%, ISEE at 3,000 euros. Since the youngest daughter is twelve years old and is therefore not under the age of 36 months, for Italy, for this Government and for this majority this family is not entitled to the misery provided for by SIA, nor will it be entitled to the misery provided for by the measure in question that should climb the mountain. This is Italy. And this is the majority that thinks of protecting strong powers and not protecting their own citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u64	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of two higher institutions who are attending our work. We welcome the students of the Institute of Higher Education "Filippo Bottazzi" in Casarano, in the province of Lecce, and the students of the Enological School "Giovanni Battista Cerletti" in Conegliano, in the province of Treviso. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u67	BONFRISCO (Mixed). Madam President, I rise for a very brief explanation of vote. The Senate Assembly has been busy for days on the measure under discussion, which I consider important and positive. It is certainly a measure that could and should have dealt with more. However, if ever we begin, we never intervene on such a central theme for the life of our society. That highlighted by Senator Catalfo in his speech is probably one of the central and true issues of this broad device, which he cannot see and photograph everything because he does not have the tools and those few tools he has are old and suffer from a very old approach, which refers, even with the small reforms that have been produced over the years, to that ISEE that photographs our situation of wealth and poverty, but that is the only tool that allows many families and many citizens to access subsidiary services. The time has come then to put a permanent hand on that instrument, taking up a debate that has never been sufficiently open on taxation. It is through taxation that we can revise that instrument. It is through a modern reading of the proportionality of our participation in social and collective life that we can solve the central and nerve theme of photography of what a person possesses or not, so as to set in motion the right process recalled by Senator Catalfo. I disagree with some of Senator Catalfo's assessments, but of course that ISEE has even distorted over the years. I am thinking of Italian children, whom the Parliamentary Committee for Childhood and Adolescence of the House with a wonderful research has photographed as increasingly weak in dealing with what the children of our generation have been able to face in a process of growth of the country. If we do not work on the proportionality of our contribution to collective life and, therefore, also on the correct proportionality of what we do not have and which must be guaranteed to us, we will never get to the bottom of it. Madam President, having been a local administrator, you know well how in recent years, by virtue of that mechanism, we have guaranteed very expensive, important and necessary services - the kindergartens and other services in charge of the municipalities - to children who might have been part of that old photograph, while we could not guarantee them to the Italian children who were no longer in that old photograph. We have therefore distorted the use and access to those services, not looking at the truth that Italians were becoming increasingly poorer, but not for the ISEE: for the ISEE the only poor were those who did not have it, perhaps recently arrived in our country and who could rely on important and necessary services that we must be able to guarantee to everyone, especially those who, because of our delay and our laziness, are no longer inside the picture of the ISEE. I am voting in favour of this amendment, Madam President, knowing that that is not the only way: Eurostat is important, but taxation is more important. Taxes must be revised in the light of new poverty: that will be the true picture of an ISEE that works.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u70	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to point out that on Amendments 1,33 and 1,34 the Group's vote is against and not in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u71	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,36, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators, up to the words "2 (a)'of this Article; (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,37 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.38.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u74	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, in order to determine who is entitled to welfare benefits, it is certainly necessary to have a method, but what the government is using is punitive towards virtuous activities. I'll explain. It is an aberration to adopt the ISEE, i.e. the indicator of the equivalent economic situation, in which the saving of a family enters, i.e. the main house. Instead, we propose to adopt other systems, such as the indicator of the income situation, which leaves aside the first house, because the bricks with which a family has realized its tranquillity for the future are not edible, that is not income. Mostly, for many Italians the first house was a source of debt, because they pay mortgages. The people who have decided to save money and behave like our history and tradition have taught us, building hard the main house and perhaps having to pay it again, are punished compared to those who have done nothing, has dissipated everything and is in the situation of asking the house to the local agency. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed Groups]] This indicator discourages virtuous behavior which, on the other hand, should be rewarded, while the second is certainly fairer. With so many right or wrong measures contained in this provision, we would at least like to correct it so that we do not penalise the people who have chosen to build their own home, paying for it, in debt, but doing something that is all in all useful to the whole of society, because they will no longer be serious for their whole life on public assistance at least for the home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u77	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, the amendment proposed by Senator Divina seems very correct, because we are actually intervening on what we know to exclude the main dwelling from the income situation. Many people, in fact, lucky for them compared to those who do not have a house, are in the condition of having a house and manage not to be in a situation of extreme discomfort compared to others, but are still very uncomfortable. And then you have to see the size of the house and the whole situation. It seems, however, very correct to use the yield index instead of the ISEE, always taking up the speech that we have made: if we really want to intervene in favour of problem 1 that attacks people, we need to be effective in the intervention and, to do this, we need to decide how to do it. Senator Catalfo has just explained to you that we must change the situation of the index on which we work, that is the level of income on which we have to intervene. And this is another way we can use it. The real problem remains the same: we want to make the revolution without money. Since what you continue to do and that the Government wants to carry forward will be one of the many things for which Italian citizens will ask you for the bill, we stay at the window, sitting in the audience to see the show of a Government that acts against its citizens. The citizens will ask for it. There's no doubt about it. [[Applause from Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u78	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,38, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.39 tabled by Senators Fucksia and Serafini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,42, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Serafini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,45, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Serafini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.47, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,48, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.52, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Serafini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.70, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.71.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u81	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, with Amendment No 1.71 we want to include objective poverty thresholds, which we cannot actually find simply by taking the ISEE. So, if you will allow me, Madam President, let us correct this anomaly by including, with amendment 1,71, exactly what we believe is needed. These are common sense regulations, which are then incorporated into the citizenship income of the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u82	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.71, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,73, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, up to the words "more measures." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.72 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.74, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.75, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.76, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.77.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u85	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, let us not hide that for us this manoeuvre was to be used to give basically answers to Italian citizens. There is no doubt that the problem of poverty will not only affect Italian citizens. But, since we take basically the resources of Italian citizens, our first responsibility, as elected representatives of Italian citizens, is to respond to them. To introduce at least one diction concerning Italian citizens or the European Union - by now Italian citizens are all citizens of the European Union - or in any case to foreign citizens resident on national territory for a number of years should be the minimum. We say ten years, but we also heard, during the examination of the measure in the Commission, that it seemed to be an excessively long period of residence. We then adopt the measure that has been taken in Britain. The European Court of Human Rights has been called upon to express its views on a restrictive maneuver by the Government of Great Britain which restricted the benefits to citizens resident in the European Union for a period of not less than five years. Since the rule has been endorsed and declared legitimate, in Britain, in order to be entitled to welfare benefits, it is necessary to be English, Community or at least resident in the Union for a period of not less than five years. Well, if the Court of Justice of the European Union has established that this is a legitimate rule which responds to the acquis communautaire, does not go beyond and does not affect the rights of anyone, we ask that the same rule, or at least a parallel rule, be introduced into the Italian law to say that it is not enough to cross Italy to have the rights of Italian citizens, but must have contributed to building something, to demonstrate the interest to stop on the territory and have a minimum of stability: in this way, after five years, the full right to welfare benefits is matured also. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u86	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.77, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, until the words "Italian" or "Community" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,79 and 1,78 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.80 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.83, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, up to the words "Italian citizens" or "Italian citizens." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,82 and 1,81 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.84, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.85, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Barozzino and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.86. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.88 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.89, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.92, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.93 tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.94 tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.95.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u89	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, in this amendment we propose what we have already foreseen in our proposal on citizenship income and that specifically concerns taking responsibility for the citizens who would benefit from the measure and the customized project. Already in the course of the minority report that I held in this Chamber I explained the perplexities of the 5 Star Movement inherent in the personalized project, as provided for by the Government's bill, in that it is entrusted to the social services of the Italian Municipalities that, at this moment - and according not only to the 5 Star Movement, but also to the ANCI, which has been audited in the Senate and has explained its perplexities - are inadequate from the point of view of resources to follow and carry out a true one for the families taking charge until they come out of social exclusion. We, in this amendment, in addition to explaining specifically how the family should be followed, say that the personalized project, precisely because we try to ensure that every Italian citizen can be reinserted in the working and social context of the country, must be carried out by the services and employment centers. The latter follow the citizen, take stock of skills and carry out personalised interviews; they understand whether the worker citizen must be requalified and help him in the active search for work. In short, it is a true system of aid and mentoring that, in all other European countries, is carried out by investing in active labour policies, while in Italy it is not yet implemented. I would remind you that the failure to invest in active labour policies and in the personalised project followed by the municipal authorities constituted the failure of a far more ambitious measure than this bill, namely the minimum income of integration: it failed because the municipalities failed to deal with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u90	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.95, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.96 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.97.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u93	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, as is the case in France, Germany and other countries, with a view to real aid for the reintegration into the social and working environment of the citizen, and precisely because this Government and this majority have never paid the attention necessary to the strengthening of employment services and therefore active labour policies, in this amendment we propose the strengthening of Italian employment centres, so that they can really follow the reintegration into work. Otherwise, everything that is put in place remains a mere measure of charity and it is not really possible to train and help the Italian citizen to reintegrate into the working environment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u94	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.97, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u97	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, with this amendment, we ask that the outcome of the personalised project, implemented by social services, be assessed periodically by means of instruments for measuring social impact. We are still waiting for the impact assessment of the customised projects implemented by the municipalities with regard to support for active inclusion (SIA). Precisely because there is no measurement of that social impact, we do not know whether those who have really received support for inclusion have managed to get out of poverty: personally I doubt it, as the measure is structured, however low income support and all the difficulties social services have. The impact assessment of the proposed measure, therefore, is not there. To understand whether the measure works or not, whether it helps the citizen or not, we need to understand the impact. It is a reminder of what happened with the minimum income and what the Commission has been talking about, saying that the impact was not there, that the personalised projects did not work and that therefore the recipients of the measure, in most cases, have remained in the trap of poverty, this amendment is not only of common sense, but is necessary and important. [[Applause from Senator Girotto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u98	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senators Fucksia and Serafini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,106, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,107, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,108, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.110, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,112.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u101	BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly to ask you to vote in favour of this amendment. At a time when we continue to talk about smart people, the amending proposal before us wanted to be a stimulus to control more effectively, especially when it comes to a subject such as poverty, that no one can be smart, to prevent us from repeating what we have witnessed several times - and those who attend the social services of the municipalities know it - or pretend separations to have facilitation on the registration of nursery schools, to have reduced ISEE values. Everything, of course, to the detriment of honest people who present truthful statements. It seemed, therefore, to me a norm of common sense that could be included in the text of the bill. Unfortunately, even this time there was no willingness on the part of the Government to accept an amendment proposal that did not upset the principles of this bill, but that certainly helped to prepare later legislative decrees with effective forms of control against dishonest people. [[Applause from Senator Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u102	I call on Senators Bertacco and Serafini to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,112. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,113, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,114, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,115, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,116, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,119.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u105	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, the Government and the majority have invented yet another body that should deal with poverty and monitoring. First of all, what I would like to say is that we continue to play the game of the three cards and, instead of suppressing useless bodies, we create new ones and we do not understand why this should be done if there is already the INAPP (National Institute for Public Policy Analysis), ex ISFOL. So we have the ANPAL, the ANPAL SpA, we have the new Administration Agency that should take care of the port workers, now we have this additional body that should take care of the monitoring, we have the INAPP and therefore, instead of trying to merge, they still fragment and still the services, they still fragment and still the monitorings and, in the general confusion, you never get to understand if you are implementing something correct or wrong. There is already, I repeat, a national research agency - the INAPP - which is responsible for monitoring. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u106	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,119, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators, up to the words'(a) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,118 and 1,120 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,121, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,122, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u109	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I wanted to see what happened to Amendment No 1,120, which we did not vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u110	Amendment No 1,120 is precluded by the vote on Amendment No 1,119, of which we rejected the first part: since Amendments Nos 1,118 and 1,120 have been excluded, we have moved to the vote on Amendment No 1,121. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,123, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.124, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,125, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,126, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,129, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,130, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,131, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,132, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,133, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,134, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,137, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,135, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,136, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u111	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education Carlo Maria Carafa in Mazzarino and Riesi, in the province of Caltanissetta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u112	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,139, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,138, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,140, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,141 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,142, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,143, which is identical to Amendment No 1,144.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u115	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 1,143 seeks to delete point (h) of paragraph 4 of Article 1. During the general discussion I said that, reading the provision, there is only the title of beauty. In fact, when we go to read the rules contained in the provision we realize that they delegate the Government to issue one or more legislative decrees. But not only that. Since a number of third parties will have to interact with each other, what will happen? The measure will be lost in the meandering Italian bureaucracy. With regard to the principles and guiding criteria to be followed by the Government, paragraph h) refers to the promotion of territorial agreements between social services and other bodies or bodies competent for employment, education and training, housing and health policies, as well as the activation of the resources of the community................................................................................................................................................................ So, in practice, there are other bodies and bodies that, perhaps, will interpret the provisions who in one way and who in another. Let us be clear: you of the majority have done all this to do nothing and only to go on television to say that you have adopted the measure on income for inclusion, but in practice no one benefits from it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u116	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,143, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators, identical to amendment 1,144, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,146, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,147, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,148, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,149.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u119	CATALFO (M5S). Madam President, the amendment in question would like to amend the text in order to achieve an integrated offer of interventions and services to the recipients of this benefit. We cannot understand why the third sector must necessarily be included in this context, if it is already accredited in itself to carry out social services. It is therefore truly incomprehensible, unless we want to replace the provision of public services with private services; but that is another issue. If, on the other hand, the aim is to provide integrated services, we do not understand the reason for this inclusion in the text, which is why Amendment 1,149 is aimed precisely at preventing such a mistake, already implemented with the minimum income of inclusion, which proved to be a real failure for Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,149, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,150, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,151, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,152 tabled by Senators Fucksia and Serafini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,153.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u123	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I cannot understand why the Government has expressed its opposition to this amendment, which simply aims to optimise the regulatory text. In fact, the current text talks about strengthening the information system for social services, and in particular about the record of assistance and its integration with health and labour information systems. Well, what are the work information systems? Amendment 1,153 simply states that these are those referred to in Article 13 of Legislative Decree No 150 of 2015. It is a specific system - we have worked together to insert it - so let us use it at this point, otherwise - I repeat - I still doubt that in the end you do not want these forecasts to be activated, preferring to be lost and that is not even fair, Madam President. It would therefore be appropriate for the Government, at least on this amendment, to give a favourable opinion because it is essential to include this wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u124	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,153 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,154, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,155, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,156, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,157, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (The sitting was suspended at 18.16 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 6 p.m. and resumed at I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,158, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,159, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,160, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,161, tabled by Senators Zizza and Serafini, identical to amendments 1,162, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Serafini, and 1,163, tabled by Senator Divina and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,164, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,165.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u127	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, since the Presidency has changed, pursuant to Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to cancel at least the last vote, because there are numerous ballots inserted even if the senators to whom you belong are absent. I would also like to refer the matter to you, so that this modus operandi appears on the Report; I would also like to know whether it is possible to know publicly the names associated with cards to which absent senators correspond.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u128	Senator Candiani, can you help me? On its extreme left there is another card. I can't detect any more irregularities. There was one. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,165, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,166, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, identical to amendment 1,167, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,168, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,171, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u129	Mr President, I am opposed to the agenda for G1,100, while in order G1,101 the following rewording of the provisions is proposed: "It commits the Government to assess the adoption in the exercise of the delegation of a precise indicator of poverty with regard to existing ones, also taking into account the equivalent median income of the household, composed also of a single person defined as poor in relation to the average economic level of local or national life." I am in favour of the G1.102 agenda, where a rewording has been accepted with a view to adding the following words at the end of the text: Without prejudice to compliance with the essential minimum levels of performance. I am against the order of business G1.103, while the opinion is in favour of the agenda G1.104, where a rewording has been accepted to replace the word: "debbie" by the word: "posse" and to add, after the word: "future" by the word: "even" by the word: "posse" by the word: "posse" by the word: "posse" by the word: "future" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "possibility" by the word: "posssibility" by the word: "also" by the word. I am against the remaining agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u130	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u131	Senator Catalfo, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1.101?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u132	Mr President, I really don't know whether to laugh or anything. No amendments have been accepted; the debate has not been accepted; it is a delegated bill and a House of Parliament cannot say anything, it cannot change anything, not even on the substance, in the very small merit. We are talking about a mouse that climbs the mountain and the mountain is the great problem of Italian citizens, as far as it is happening, it happens and it has happened also in the last days (read the facts of the news). And here we are talking about the change of agenda? But, with all due respect, thank you, no: I do not accept it and I ask that both agendas, at my first signature, be voted on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u133	Senator Berger, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1.102?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u134	Mr President, I accept the rewording and I would ask that the agenda be voted on anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u135	Senator Mandelli, there is an invitation to withdraw the agenda G1.103 and a rewording of the agenda G1.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u136	Mr President, I withdraw the agenda G1.103, I accept the rewording of the agenda G1.104 and I also ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u137	Divine Senator, do you insist on voting on your agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u138	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u139	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Parente, do you confirm your opinion contrary to the agenda G1.101? Parent, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.101, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Berger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The agenda was withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.104 (text 2), tabled by Senators Mandelli and D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u142	DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I would like to point out that I was wrong to vote. I meant to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u143	We take note of that. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.105, tabled by Senators Divine and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.106, tabled by Senators Divine and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.107, tabled by the Senators Divine and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u146	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, the rapporteur has given a general opinion. I would have liked to hear the Government's opinion. In fact, with the agenda G1.108 we ask - and I do not read it all, but only the device - that the Government undertake to remove or in any case to counter the causes that contribute to the poverty of the Italian families, first of all the tax burden that weighs on the families. If the Government had spoken - apart from the fact that this is a very loose commitment - it could not have said anything, because this commitment corresponds to the statements that the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, made two days ago at the various meetings and moments of television extrapolated. Basically he said that in the Government's intentions one of the first interventions to be carried out (it didn't speak of poverty) was the reduction of the tax burden on families. To hear the rapporteur now give an opinion against this agenda, which merely interprets the statements made by the President of the Council (of course these amendments and these agendas had to be presented a few weeks ago), is very silly, contradictory and even unproductive, because they say no to an intervention that the Government has just announced it wants to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u147	Perhaps, Senator Divina, there is the third point of the premises that... Are you proposing a reformulation, Senator Parente?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u148	No, Mr President, the opinion remains opposed, because the agenda is general and is not in line with the spirit of delegation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u149	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.108, presented by the Divine Senators and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.109, presented by the Divine Senators and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.110, presented by the Divine Senators and the Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u152	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I am speaking this evening with a little bitterness, thinking of 178 families in Pinerola who have been waiting for months for a firm response from the institutions. The case is not only of Pinerolese, because many other companies will be able to find themselves and are in the same condition. The company declared bankruptcy last January and in our country a regulatory situation has been created according to which these workers are found without social shock absorbers. For months, responses from the relevant ministries have been bouncing to try to fill this regulatory gap. We need clear and urgent action, because people cannot postpone what they have to eat today until tomorrow. After presenting a question on this issue in recent weeks, with the signature of many fellow senators, I was pleased because the government had responded quickly and also in an innovative way to the previous communications. This, even after speaking to the Secretary-General present in the Commission who reiterated the statements made in response to the question, had made us hope for a fairly rapid solution. A technical negotiating table was held today, but no solution has yet been found, which has been postponed to a later table. The trade unions expressed concerns about this process. I think it is important to find a definitive solution, which is useful both for the 198 workers who are now in this situation and for the companies that will be in this situation in the coming months. The government intervenes, shows an act of courage and attention to the people, even if they are not here to demonstrate in the square or to make a big voice. Be careful also for those who follow the normal iter, but I assure you that in the territories, even far away, it is very difficult to face the crisis if then, in the face of these episodes, the workers find themselves alone. They are not alone because they have us side by side, but we must give them an answer. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u155	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, Agcom, the Communications Guarantee Authority, created to monitor and regulate the correct functionality of crucial sectors such as telecommunications, is actually the chair for politicians and friends of politicians, overpaid with public money, which obviously allowed and favored criminal practices of operators in the sector (press, newspapers and television) or real scams against consumers, dejected and disinformed by the worst information system in Europe. Chaired by the Montiano Cardani, a despicable individual who is inadequate for the proper management of the Authority, Agcom has recently hired a new communication manager, after a competition in violation of the basic principles of transparency and above all without the necessary requirements. His name is David Nebiolo and he will soon resign as a result of my (and not only my) complaints. It was not enough for me to expose myself to ANAC in order to denounce the incorrect practice of hiring, it was not enough to resort to the TAR of other excluded candidates, it was not enough the control of Cardani, not of the three commissioners Martusciello, Nicita and Posteraro, not of the secretary general Capecchi (grandson of the former Prime Minister Enrico Letta), not of the two vice-secretaries general Perrucci and Aria, not of the head of cabinet Annalisa D'Orazio, not of the councilor for the policies of the consumers Flaviano: all paid over 200,000 euros a year (it was a search on Google among other things) to avoid the illegitimate assumption of Nebiolo with a resolution of 14 October 2016. David Nebiolo is in fact a member and sole director of a company, the Nest, which runs a restaurant in the center of Rome, where among succulent dishes and wine, journalists and characters of the show are tickled (find photos also on Twitter). Not to mention the members of Nebiolo, overshadowed by investigations and suspicious corrupting activities. Nebiolo is also the liquidator of another capital company, PNR Communication Srl in clear conflict of interest with Agcom. So, it's a shame, but David Nebiolo doesn't have the requisites, because the rule says that employees in service at the Authorities can't take on any other job or job, or engage in any other professional activity, even if occasional; he can't have direct or indirect interests in companies in the sector (but look at it a bit). The infringement of those prohibitions constitutes a cause of forfeiture of employment. In addition, the carrying out of business activities is also notoriously incompatible with the profession: as stated in Law No 68 of 1963, which regulates the profession of journalist: The journalist is deleted from the list of professionals, when it appears that the requirement of professional exclusivity has failed. It is just a matter of remembering that the condition for participation in the competition was the registration of professional journalists. Perhaps the main requirement for a career was to make friends eat well, rather than to be a real journalist. So Nebiolo has to resign and, while we're at it, he resigns also Cardani. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u158	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as we announced last week, we continue our relay every weekend to remind the Government of the existence of Law No 352 of 1970 which is very clear and precise with regard to the rules on repealing referendums. It also states that the Government must set the date for the celebration of the referendums within 60 days of the order - hence the notice of admission of the questions - by the Council. The deadline for the referendum on vouchers and contracts expires on 11 March, so we would like to understand from the government - but at the end of the session the government disappeared from its benches, as it disappeared on this issue too - when it plans to comply with the rules laid down in our order. There will be no one to get rid of the chestnuts from the fire, so it must absolutely set the date so that Italian citizens finally have the opportunity to exercise their right to say no to the voucher system contained within the jobs act and to express also on the issue - which always concerns the work and which we discuss little but which is equally important - of the responsibility of the procurements in charge of the public administrations. I understand that the government is afraid and has difficulty, because I believe that citizens have already done the budget - although I must say that ISTAT helps us in this - not only the failure of the jobs act, but also how these rules have further aggravated the working conditions in our country. Among other things, I would like to remind you that the voucher system, on which today a disquisition and a very interesting discussion has opened, is even spoken within the primaries of the PD: now some candidates realize that the jobs act obviously needs a radical change. However, we say clearly that we have the tool to ensure that citizens can vote and express their opinion. We are absolutely certain that the referendum will cover the Government, rejecting once again one of the so-called reforms of the Renzi Government, with an avalanche of yes. I would also add that we not only continue the relay until this date is fixed, but as far as we are concerned we will ensure that no mess, legging or decrees are made with fake changes to blow up the referendum. Since tomorrow is also 8 March, I would like to remind you that the proposal to leave vouchers only for families means further massive discrimination against women, because care work unfortunately only affects women. Here too we begin to say clearly that we refer to the sender proposals that are not serious, but that are aimed at perpetuating an unjust system that has contributed further to the destruction of the work and expectations of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u161	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. On Thursday, March 2 in Iglesias, South Sardinia, a 32-year-old woman, Federica Madau, was stabbed by her husband. A few months earlier, the couple, who had three girls aged four, six and nine, had argued, so much so that the police had to intervene. The woman had filed a complaint for beatings and the spouses had separated in December. The stab wounds on Federica's young body tragically put an end to this story and made three young girls orphans at an early age. This brings up to 40 women we remember in this relay, which began on 30 June 2016; already six are the women we remembered in 2017 alone. At the legislative level we have produced significant results during this period, first of all with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and, in implementation of the aforementioned Convention, with Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, with which our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. But the laws, even the best, alone are not enough; much more is needed. And this Senate, precisely for the sake of further investigation of causes and remedies, has deliberated the establishment of a committee of inquiry, which I hope will be launched as soon as possible. A warning to greater commitment has come to us in recent days from a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights. By its judgment in Talpis v Italy of 2 March 2017, the Court sentenced Italy for the violation of Articles 2 (right to life), 3 (prohibition of inhuman or degrading treatment) and 14 (prohibition of discrimination) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR), on the assumption that the Italian authorities, failing to act promptly before the complaint of the applicant - victim of domestic violence - and to conduct diligently the relevant criminal proceedings, have led to a situation of impunity, which has facilitated the recurrence of violent conduct, until leading, in November 2013, to the attempted murder of the applicant Talpis, a Moldovan citizen who moved with his family to Italy in 2011, and to the murder of one of his two children. This murder gave the woman the strength to sue Italy. According to the decision, in the field of domestic violence, the task of the State is not limited to the mere adoption of legal provisions protecting the most vulnerable, but must extend to ensuring that the protection of such persons is effective. In the case of Talpis, the delay of the proceeding authorities has not only deprived the applicant of the immediate protection that the situation required, but also weakened the value of the complaint lodged by the applicant of all effectiveness, creating a context of impunity favourable to the recurrence of domestic violence by her husband. The Court also held that the violence inflicted on the applicant, which included both physical injury and psychological pressure, was sufficiently serious to qualify as a degrading treatment within the meaning of Article 3 of the Convention. In conclusion, the Court pointed out that the failure of the State (it is spoken of Italy) in providing protection to women against domestic violence results in a violation of the prohibition of discrimination, pursuant to Article 14 of the ECHR. This condemnation tells us that stressing the seriousness of a phenomenon such as feminicide and above all offering and requiring greater commitment is a duty. I still like to recall, also because I am intervening on the eve of 8 March, that in recent days the House of Deputies unanimously passed a bill protecting orphans of the victims of feminicide. Soon we will have to consider this proposal in this House and we will do so by thinking of the many women killed who, like Federica Madau, have left orphans to protect. So I take back the wire of the relay, which always ends in the same way. We propose with conviction an appeal to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation for equal opportunities so that the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No 119 of 2013 and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. Then we appeal to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. Finally, an appeal to the country, men and women: more than 120 women were killed in 2016, we can no longer accept this slaughter and we cannot remain unarmed, but we are called to a greater effort, even as an Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u162	Given that many of the speeches at the end of the sitting contain requests to the Government, we should actually ask the Government representative to hold until the session is completed. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u165	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to denounce yet another lack of rights vis-à-vis citizens. The island of Maddalena is about to have 30 new citizens, but even before they come to light they are forced to deal with the shameful mess of bureaucracy and the absurd cuts of public services. There is a ministerial protocol that imposes a clear rule to keep the obstetrics departments open: at least 500 parts per year to guarantee the professionalism of doctors, nurses, midwives and anesthetists; but the law also admits a derogation and Maddalena would need it: first of all because the island is surrounded by one of the most stormy seas in the world and because the hospital of Olbia is farther away than it appears in the maps. The road is narrow and trafficked: buses and trucks go almost to man's pace and even ambulances often find the passage blocked. The Region of Sardinia promises a helicopter transport for mothers who have to give birth, but we have to ask what helicopter?Sardinia is the only Italian Region without the Elisocrso. I have submitted a question to ask the Government to verify the willingness to modify the provisions of Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015, in order to make mandatory for the Regions, and not only optional, the establishment of basic hospital garrisons in the places qualifying as particularly disadvantaged areas, as in the case of the Municipality of Maddalena. Moreover, in view of the fact that the Regions can make a special request for derogation, in order to keep the birth points in operation with a number of parts less than 500 units, they have asked whether the Government, having regard to the substitute powers granted to it by the Constitution, intends to exercise this particular power in place of the Region. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u166	I am amazed, Senator Serra, that you inform us that the Region of Sardinia, that being an island would perhaps be the area where it would be more necessary, is not equipped with an exile service. It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u167	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Cesare Zonca" in Treviolo, in the province of Bergamo, who are attending our work, to whom my personal greeting goes as my fellow citizens. [[Applause]] I must also inform him that, unfortunately, our work has been completed and that I am therefore beginning to take off the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u168	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-778.ana.u169	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, March 8, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 and the second at 16, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.48.
