ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Colucci, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. First of all, questions 3-01170, 3-01455, 3-03657 and 3-03679 will be dealt with on the abolition of post police and communications controls. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u4	Mr President, I respond jointly to the questions from Senators Tarquinio, Vaccari, Albano and Fasiolo who, together with other Senators, draw attention to the windy closure of a series of sections of the Postal Police and communications on national territory, including those of Pordenone, Gorizia, Modena and Foggia. I note that the questions from Senators Albano and Vaccari have been put a long time ago (they date back to 2014), but I believe that the answer may still be of interest to them, as the subject dealt with in their respective acts still remains very topical, after having remained open for all these years by virtue of regulatory precedents - of which I will speak in a moment - that have conditioned its evolution. The question of the closure of certain sections of the Postal Police and Communications, is linked, like the proposal for the abolition of other police offices on national territory, to the implementation of a rationalization plan submitted to the opinion of the provincial authorities of public security in early 2014. The plan is still awaiting definition, also due to the approval of Law No. 124 of 2015, by which the Parliament delegated the Government to take important measures to reorganize public administrations. As regards, in particular, the reordering of the public security system, the legislator clarified that the new organisational structure should aim to avoid duplication and dispersive overlaps in the exercise of police functions, and to facilitate the associated management of instrumental services in compliance with the principles of efficiency of public expenditure. These principles have been transposed in Article 3 of Legislative Decree No. 177 of 2016, with which it has been established that the rationalization of the dislocation of police forces on the territory will be determined by decree of the Minister of the Interior, favouring the employment of the State Police in the capital municipalities and the Arm of the Carabinieri in the remaining territory, subject to specific derogations for particular requirements of order and public security. In order to arrive at the complete definition of this design of strategic value, special interforce groups have been set up in the Department of Public Security that have not yet finished their activity. So much said in general, I represent that also the postal and communications police are involved in the reorganization in question, being evident the necessity to adapt the organization to the remarkable transformations recorded in the field. In fact, to the traditional tasks of escort and protection of goods and services postal have joined and replaced others completely different, characterized by marked connotations of high technological specialization and oriented to the contrast of computer crime in its most varied forms. Moving from this finding, the rationalization plan aims to concentrate the most distinguished and qualified professional resources in the compartments of the regional capitals and in the provincial sections in which they operate district prosecutors with wide competence in the matter of computer crimes. I emphasize, however, that the professionalism currently in service at the sections will continue to operate on the territory, providing for such remodulation their employment in the investigative departments of the local police headquarters. I now assure you that the new organizational structure of the Postal Police and Communications will be inspired by exclusive needs of efficiency and adaptation to the technological transformation of the Country, without it coming to suffer the quality of the product safety, nor the proximity to the places of residence of our citizens. It is unthinkable, on the other hand, that the Ministry of the Interior can impoverish a service, that of the Postal Police and communications, that is, deputy to oversee an area of strategic interest for the country. Computer science and communication systems have in fact become tools for the usual use of criminal associations of the mafia and terrorist type and the contrast of such partnerships on the Internet requires, in the logic of symmetrically matching the threat, the constant adaptation of the technologies in use, as well as - of course - the levels of professionalism of the human resources provided. Finally, regarding the closure of the headquarters of the Modena Railway Police, feared in the question of Senator Vaccari, I inform that the rationalization plan does not foresee such hypothesis.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u7	Mr Albano (PD). Mr Bubbico, thank you for your answer to these questions, which express the great concern of the territories with a view to the possible remodulation of the presence of the Postal Police. As you mentioned, these remodulations, foreseen in the plan to reorder under discussion since 2014, provide for the concentration of the competences proper to the specialty of the Postal Police in the regional capitals and provincial sections where district prosecutors operate that have special competences in the prosecution of cybercrime. On behalf of my fellow signatories, too, I am moderately and partially satisfied with the reply received. I would add that I would like the Ministry of the Interior to keep in mind the need to have garrisons spread over the territory, precisely in order to facilitate the activities of investigation, allowing a widespread knowledge of the local socio-economic fabric, since such amalgamation and rationalization do not result large economies for the Ministry, since the premises in which the Postal Police is hosted are borne by Poste italiani SpA, as well as the working tools, including the vehicles. Prevention of terrorism and cybercrime, such as online scams, identity theft, cyberbullying, prevention and investigation of paedophilia and stalking crimes are just some of the activities that the Postal Police carry out with accuracy and great dedication, thanks to the specific experience achieved in the years of activity. The modus operandi developed by the Postal Police is one of the best practices that deserves to be valued within the public administration. For this reason, it is called not to sacrifice an excellence of the Italian Forces of Order, whose investigation and prevention capabilities are proving to be at the highest levels in these years when terrorism is seriously affecting Europe, in order to make few and negligible savings for the public coffers, absolutely inappropriate if it is to limit the quality of services for the safety of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u10	PHASE (PD). Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to stress my overall satisfaction with the reply you have just given. Even though it was necessary to close some sections, you reassured us that in the capitals it should not take place. I fully understand the need for a rationalization plan to meet the criteria of greater efficiency, effectiveness, productivity and cost-effectiveness of a service. It is therefore important that those units merge into some organism; moreover, the staff are often linked to micro reality and it is therefore right that they become more effective, as in the case of the Postal Police, merging into the mobile team, as you have just pointed out. I believe that in some way we have to deal with the increasing and excessive number of slanders, problems of various kinds and frauds and try to give as effective a response as possible also in terms of technological skills, of which the police must be absolutely equipped. Thank you very much and I am pleased with your response overall.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u13	Tarquinio (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr Vice-Minister, the answer is satisfactory with regard to the clarifications provided, but there is a basic problem. As Senator Albano said, the post offices of Postal Police are almost all covered, in terms of facilities and means, by Poste italiani SpA, which grinds useful from morning to evening, so I do not think you can imagine a saving as far as it is concerned. You must follow the committees that are working. Without prejudice to the capitals of the Region, in Puglia there is a totally abnormal situation. In fact a plan has been elaborated in which the closure of the section of Foggia, that counts twenty units of Postal Police, and the maintenance standing of that of Taranto, with three units, and between the two is clear the difference in terms of quality, efficiency and problematicity. Do not forget that Foggia is being born the fourth Mafia, as was said by the National Anti-Mafia Attorney Roberti. And that is unimaginable. You know that I am asking thousands of questions. There is a movement of carabinieri that increases; certainly the investigative part is not yet efficient, and without its activity it is not possible to eradicate a phenomenon that grows every day and expands with oil spot over the entire territory of the Capitanatata, which is the third Province of Italy by territorial extension. That's the real thing. Therefore, to imagine closing the garrison of Foggia Postal Police is something absurd and incredible that I do not know what it can answer. Therefore, I invite you to monitor, because you can see clientele within those committees, since there is no logic. Where there is maximum efficiency and where there are twenty staff units, the headquarters is closed; where there are three, the garrison remains open. Where a territory is more dangerous we close the seat; in another less dangerous territory, the seat remains open. Something's not right. Knowing her seriousness and efficiency - I have known her for a long time and I have always appreciated her, as she knows, also for her moderation and her style - I tell her to look carefully at the case of Foggia - my question concerns that reality - and then also to the whole territory, to avoid seeing facts that could trigger unnecessary polemics at a time when all police forces, including the postal one, are indispensable and useful, especially in high-risk territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u14	Following is the question 3-03196, on the certifications of Italian citizens born in Municipalities transferred from Italy to other States. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u15	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Fasiolo asks to know what initiatives the Minister of the Interior intends to take to ensure that the national offices of the Municipalities, the State Railways, the INAIL, the INPS, the offices of the Civil Motorization and the health companies apply the provisions of Law No 54 of 1989 concerning the compilation of documents issued to Italian citizens born in Municipalities transferred from Italy to other States on the basis of the peace treaty. First of all, I inform you that, following the entry into force of the law in question, the Ministry of the Interior has issued numerous circulars aimed at soliciting the municipalities to its correct application. In particular, with Circular No. 9 of 2005 all public administrations were sensitized to the obligation to bring back in the documents issued only the Italian name of the City of birth and the obligation to adapt the documents themselves to the rules of the law even at the simple oral request of the citizen concerned. With a further circular, No. 4 of 2007, the Permanent Conferences established - as is well known - in the prefectures were also involved in the theme, in order to ensure the linking of the administrative activity of the peripheral structures of the State and the implementation of the principle of loyal collaboration between the State and territorial self-governments. I also recall another circular of 2007 - No 42 - to which the list of municipalities belonging to the territories transferred and with which the prefects were invited to raise awareness, such as the Ferrovie dello Stato, the INAIL, the INPS, the offices of the Civil Motorization, the health companies, on the correct fulfilment of the obligations related to the application of the law. The attention of the Government on the subject has never failed, so much so that, precisely in the matter of documents issued to Italian citizens born in the territories "carried out" on 5 July 2012, the President of the Council of Ministers issued a directive aimed at definitively clarifying the terms of application of Law No. 54 of 1989. It should be pointed out that the directive has been sent out following the work of the coordination table between the Government and the associations of the Istrian, Fiumani and Dalmatian exiles. As mentioned in the question, this Directive aims to affirm the principle that the place of birth of persons born in Italy must be historicised, i.e. referring to the time when the event "birth" occurred, therefore, when the place of birth of the person concerned must be indicated, all the administrations of the State, the parastatus, the local authorities and any other office or body have the obligation to bear only the Italian name of the municipality, without any reference to the State to which it currently belongs. In this respect, it should be noted that, also in order to address shortcomings in the information systems in use at public and private offices which were unable to recognise as Italian the Municipalities insisting on territories subsequently transferred to other States by virtue of international treaties, the said Directive annexed the lists, formed on the basis of available sources and information, of the Municipalities belonging to the territories transferred by the Peace Treaty of Paris, and of the Municipalities included in the territories transferred by the Treaty of Osimo, which entered into force on 3 April 1977, with the specification of the Provinces of reference and the relevant ISTAT and cadastral codes. The same Directive also pointed out that, for the purposes of its application, the on-line tax code verification service available on the website of the Revenue Agency is a valid tool. Subsequently, with a further circular of 17 October 2012, the Ministry of the Interior returned to the topic, reaffirming the need to ensure the correct application of the legislation under consideration. Finally, for the sake of completeness, I inform you that a coordination table between the Government and associations of the Istrian, Fiumani and Dalmatian exiles is still active in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for the joint examination of the issues reported by the associations themselves. During the meetings of that body, it was found that all municipalities are aligned with the provisions of Law No 54 of 1989 and that only a few isolated local health care companies and some state offices did not apply the rules in question. During the last meeting of the table, held at the Presidency of the Council on 27 April, the most extensive willingness of the Ministry of the Interior and, more generally, of the Government to promote any further intervention for the solution of still open issues of competence, including those useful to the positive definition of individual cases of non-application of the law possibly reported, was represented to the associations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u18	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Bubbico and I am very pleased with his reply. As the Deputy Minister has pointed out, these are residual and limited cases. More than anything else, it must be monitored that all public administrations, as well as the State Railways, INAIL, INPS, civil DMV offices and health companies, as noted, comply with the rules and legal obligations, in particular the directive of the President of the Council of Ministers of 5 July 2012.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u19	Following is the question 3-03255, on the transfer of the firehouse of the fire department of Pescara. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u20	Mr President, Senator Razzi, together with other senators, in pointing out some critical issues inherent in the headquarters of the provincial command of the fire department of Pescara, ask the government to adopt initiatives aimed at securing the structure. The interrogating senators also ask for news on the possible transfer of the command to Spoltore - solution, this, advocated by the mayor of that Municipality - and, more generally, on the identification of a definitive solution of the long-standing question. The problems of static and hygienic-sanitary type relative to the seat of the provincial command of Pescara are well known to the Ministry of the Interior and the Province of Pescara, owner of the property, that have intervened several times, as it has been manifested the necessity and with charges now charged of the one hour of the other administration, with the carrying out of works of consolidation and maintenance concerning the floors of the building, the comrades, the garages, to which the works of renovation of the water and sanitary systems must be added. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior, taking into account the declared impossibility of the Province to face the expenses necessary for a total renovation of the property, has begun a constant comparison with the various administrations concerned, aimed at finding an area of the capital or the neighboring areas suitable for the realization of the new operating structure. The comparison, which has long been fruitless, led last year to the identification of some possible areas. Among those proposed to the Administration of the interior, the most suited to the requirements of the provincial command was the one located in the Town capital in via Pantini, which, in addition to being regular and flat, as well as free of impediments, allows rapid entry both to the provincial territory, through the ring road and motorway connections, and to the city center. In this regard, it is worth pointing out that 50% of the relief interventions on the headquarters of Pescara take place in the city area. The area in question turns out to be owned by RAI and has been activated the technical-administrative iter necessary to its acquisition. It is important to point out that the process will take a short time. The other areas proposed to the Administration of the interior, including that of the Municipality of Spoltore, present a series of drawbacks such as: irregular surfaces, proximity of the railway line (circumstance that imposes the respect of certain safety distances with reduction of the usable surface), remarkable altitude differences that would require works of land movement and financially onerous excavation. Moreover, always with reference to the aforementioned areas, the typology of the roads present there and the density of traffic during the hours of the day would be such as to prevent the means of rescue rapid access to the city center. In particular, the area located in the Municipality of Spoltore, which has the advantage of being made available in a short time, was not suitable neither from the orographic point of view, nor, above all, for the road access to the city center. In this regard, it is pointed out that the priority aspect for the realization of the headquarters of the command is, in addition to the location on a flat surface, the easy achievement of the same from the users and the rapid access to the city center, since the rest of the Province has already served from territorial detachments. Finally, as regards the situation of morosity with regard to the Province referred to in the question, I inform you that, as of January 1, 2014, the Administration of the interior had not paid to the said agency what was due for the lease. This situation was initially determined by the lack of funds on the relevant chapter for reasons related to the overall liability position for properties leased to the National Firefighters' Corps and, subsequently, by the intervention in May 2015, notification of an act of foreclosure to third parties of a creditor company of the provincial administration. In this respect, it is considered that, according to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, the Administration, as a third party foreclosure, was obliged not to have the sums foreclosed, which were therefore set aside. In the last month of May, the definitive extinction of the aforementioned enforcement procedure took place, ordered by order of the competent judicial authority, which is why on 1 June last the payment order was issued in favour of the Province of Pescara to sanatorium of the previous morosity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u23	Razzi (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, the matter was a very important one, since it concerned the safety of places and workers. I take note of the sensitivity shown and I thank the Vice Minister for having prepared what is needed to prevent dangerous episodes and, at the same time, to restore dignity to workplaces such as the barracks Maurizio Berardinucci, destined to welcome the headquarters of the provincial command of the fire department of Pescara. You, Mr. Deputy Minister, may not be well aware of the situation: there are many poor barracks throughout Italy. Personally, I've been a firefighter for 14 years and I know this situation. Many times the firefighters are called "angels" when they intervene to save people, but it takes comfort, and I think this is necessary in all the regions of Italy. Today I spoke of Pescara because it is my city, but in many countries the offices are poor, and not only of the fire department, but also of police and carabinieri. I think they need to be looked at, because they are really those who help us and who assist us in our daily lives.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u24	The following are questions 3-03537 and 3-03560, on the discriminatory treatment of air force personnel of firefighters compared to other bodies of the State. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u25	Mr President, as you have pointed out, I am answering together with the questions from Senators Crimes and Catalfo, who are asking to know what initiatives, including those of a regulatory nature, are being taken to ensure that pilot and specialist aircraft personnel of the National Fire Department are given the same legal, economic and pension framework as the rest of the State's air force personnel. It is recommended that the National Firefighters' Corps, for the purpose of carrying out its institutional tasks, has staff with special technical and professional skills, attested by the possession of patents or certifications issued by the Department of Firefighters, Public Aid and Civil Defence, following the passing of specialized training courses, to carry out the functions of pilots and specialists of aircraft and helicopters, divers, boatmen and telecommunications workers. The exercise of these functions, which are essential for emergency technical assistance activities, aimed at safeguarding the safety of persons and the integrity of goods, determines the recognition of specific allowances on the basis of the provisions of the law and contract. In particular, aircraft personnel are currently paid a flight allowance, which is contractually determined by a trade union agreement of 22 November 2004, amounting to approximately EUR 8,000 per year for pilots and about EUR 6,800 for specialists, granted to the same extent regardless of the professional qualification or seniority of service. This allowance is certainly lower than those granted to the personal counterpart of the other organisations of the State under military and civil order. Moreover, the entry of part of the aerial fleet of the Forest Corps of the State and its aircraft personnel in the Department of Firefighters, following the absorption provided by law n. 124 of 2015 and implemented by legislative decree n. 177 of 2016, has made this disparity of economic treatment even more immediate and evident. A brief digression must be made to inform that, with further implementing measures, the Administration of the interior, in addition to defining the organization of the forest fire service within the Department of Firefighters and to articulate the same service in central and territorial structures, will also provide the reorganization of the air service of the National Corps. Such reorganization is indispensable, as, following the enactment of the aforementioned legislative decree n. 177 of 2016, the aerial component of the National Corps of Firefighters has increased with the transfer of 96 pilots and helicopter specialists and 16 aircraft of the State Forestry Corps, which have gone to add to the 19 aircraft canadair acquired in 2013 due to the passage from the Civil Protection Department. As far as I have just said, the administration is certainly motivated to make the most of the aircraft personnel of the National Corps, also under the profiles that are the subject of the question. Obviously the issue cannot be addressed without considering also the other specialties of the National Corps - i.e. divers, boatmen and radio repairers - which will also involve a greater financial commitment and the need to start a path to find the resources necessary for the purpose and also to achieve the complete alignment with the other bodies of the State. A useful tool in this regard could be found in the exercise of the delegation provided for in Article 8 of the aforementioned Law n. 124 of 2015, for the optimization of the effectiveness of the functions of the National Body, also through the reorganization of the current roles and qualifications of the staff. This delegation provides for the issuing of a legislative decree and the possibility to issue within a year a second legislative decree containing interpretative and corrective provisions of the first. The first legislative decree - No. 97 of 29 May 2017 - was published in the Official Journal of 23 June 2017 and will enter into force the day after tomorrow. It should be noted, in this regard, that at its meeting on 3 May last, the Constitutional Affairs Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, when expressing its opinion on the draft legislative decree in question, had, among other observations, asked the Government to assess the opportunity to review, in the context of the specializations of the National Firefighters' Corps, the high qualifications/specialities held by the staff of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to examine this observation and, more generally, to deepen all the open issues in the matter of ordering the staff of the fire department, the Administration has already opened a table of confrontation with the trade unions, in the perspective of the activation of the procedure of adoption of the corrective legislative decree to which I referred before. Precisely this corrective measure appears to be the most appropriate regulatory vehicle to deal with the issue that is the subject of today's question, supporting the path of harmonization of the allowances of all the specialists of the National Corps, including, of course, the aeronautical one.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u28	CRIMI (M5S). Mr Vice-Minister, thank you first of all because receiving answers to questions is a rare occurrence. I would also like to thank you for confirming what Senator Catalfo and I have written in the questions. Ours, of course, was not an instrumental question, but it had its foundation in an action that was carried out in a provocative way by the air force personnel of the firemen, who submitted the resignation from the role to be framed in the ordinary role of firefighters. That of the fire department, as has already been said by colleagues who preceded me, is the staff that more than others is recognized by the population as real angels, who give support in the worst moments. I like to remember what the fire department itself says: they go to those very places from which everyone else escapes, places from which the other rescuers and men of the Forces of Order must leave. The aircraft specialist has seen him in service, in particular, during the earthquake of Central Italy, but also of the forest fires, another rather complex issue that unfortunately sees in the so-called Law Madia a law very busy and improvised, in the haste of wanting to assemble the Forest Corps of the State and the other police forces, with the intention - of which the reason is not yet understood - to abolish it. In the end, what has been achieved is something that will need years and years of corrections and measures that have not yet been achieved. I am pleased that a commitment has been made, but it is not enough, Mr Deputy Minister, because for decades the Fire Departments have been hearing governments taking this commitment. I hope that the time has now come for this commitment to be maintained. You have identified the instrument of the legislative decree, which is fine: it is an easy instrument, because it has a precise responsibility, which is that of the Government, of the Minister, of whom that legislative decree will write it. We will be here to watch, until the last moment, together with all the staff of the fire department, that in that legislative decree there are the answers that are so long awaited, that - it has done well to remember - concern not only the personnel experienced by the air force (for us this was the excuse to bring in this Chamber the topic of the staff of the fire department), but all the operating staff of the fire department, that is always in the front line and that does not pull back in front of anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u29	Following is the question 3-03776, on the spread on the net of the game self-harmful "Blue whale" ("Blue Whale"). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u30	Mr President, Senator Nugnes, together with other senators, draws the Government's attention to the goddamn phenomenon of the Blue Balena, calling for initiatives to counter its spread. It must be said immediately that the Postal and Communications Police in recent months have produced a very deep and determined commitment, both on their own initiative, and on the basis of specific reports, with initiatives aimed at assessing, also through the monitoring of the Internet, the actual scope of this phenomenon, which arouses social alarm and has had a broad echo on the media. This practice would aim, for those who conduct it on the Net as a curator, to involve the participants in acts of self-injury, causing increasingly dangerous behaviors to determine suicidal intentions in the victims. The activity of the Postal Police and Communications aims to identify persons or groups of persons possibly involved in this phenomenon, in order to prevent the exposure of children and young people to a risk for their safety related to the attendance of the Network. At the same time, a centralised collection of alerts is carried out for the same purposes. The Postal and Communications Police have so far received about 170 reports of the phenomenon. Proposed investigations, aimed at the timely location of victims, have revealed that the percentage of qualifying cases of crime, such as incitement to suicide or the caused alarm, is less than 5% of the reports received. I inform you that a dedicated virtual room has been put in place in the portal of the on-line public security police station, to give advice to parents and children and to illustrate the emerging dangers on the Net, to facilitate reporting and to raise awareness among users, also thanks to the specialized help of psychologists of the State Police. It is clear, however, that the prevention of any form of distorted or dangerous use of the web that constitutes an expression of youth discomfort and vulnerability - including the phenomenon under consideration here - also requires the active involvement of the world of school, families and associationism. In this sense, the theme of the "Blue Balena" has been included in the campaign that the offices of the aforementioned specialized structure of the State Police carry out in the schools for a conscious use of the web. I assure you that the Postal Police will continue to monitor the Internet assiduously to prevent and counter the spread of this phenomenon, promptly referring to the judicial authority on contents of criminal importance found within the spaces and online communication services. As for the episode mentioned in the question, concerning the suicide of a 15-year-old, in the city of Livorno last February, I confirm that the investigations carried out by the police, supported also by numerous testimonial information, led to the exclusion of the hypothesis, supported by some media, that the event was attributable to the phenomenon in question. The public prosecutor holding the file on the event, following the outcome of the investigations, requested and obtained the closure of the relevant proceeding.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u33	NUGNES (M5S). Mr Vice-Minister, clearly the precautionary principle and the need to give adequate answers to the concerns of citizenship, even if they were not actually justified, are the reason why we moved. Thank you for the answers, although it is not clear to me, from the information you have provided to me, to ascertain the existence of the phenomenon specifically. You spoke of 170 reports and 5% of these reports which then turned into crime, but you did not say if the phenomenon is actually attributable to the hypothesis of this specific programme that would involve children. I am certainly comforted by the fact that the Postal Police are investigating and being able to respond to those who were urging us to do so. Above all, I am pleased that the actions in schools are carried out in a very widespread and timely manner and I hope that this will lead to positive results for the future. In fact, support for young people must be done in the places they visit and through their most appropriate tools, with the psychological support that is both for the use of the network, and for how many other problems may affect teenagers, in this complicated phase of their transition to adulthood. I am sufficiently satisfied even if, of course, a finding of a negation of the phenomenon would have reassured me more, but unfortunately it is not so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u34	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-854.ana.u35	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.48 p.m.
