ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 302, 1019, 1151, 1789 and 1907. The rapporteur, Senator Russo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start this report using the sign language, which - as I shall explain later - is one of the most significant aspects, even if not the only one, of the measure under consideration. (Senator Russo expresses himself using the Italian sign language.) What I have just said is very simple: this law, which recognizes the Italian sign language and a more comprehensive protection of people with hearing disabilities in this country, arrives with twenty years of delay. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] Today we present a norm of civilization, trying to eliminate the shame of living in the last country in Europe, which does not yet have a law that fully recognizes the essential rights of deaf people, in particular those marked. I say this in particular to those who feel this situation more closely - and it would be time for this too. It was possible to do so in an understandable way for all those who have an auditory disability, thanks to a LIS interpreter or a subtitling - and who know well what it means not to be able to participate fully in the life of their community because of the impossibility of communicating, for which equal educational opportunities at school and university, listening to a news, explaining to a doctor the malaise of their own or their children, receiving information at a station, obtaining a certificate from a public administration, making them understand without fear of being misunderstood their own reasons, before a judge or a policeman, risk being still denied rights. I begin this report by saying that, with this provision the Senate, and I hope soon also the Chamber of Deputies, apologize to people with auditory disabilities in the country and try to break down a barrier that still denies many, in 2017, the full right of citizenship. Let me repeat this last sentence by addressing those who have not understood my words, but who I hope will be able to grasp the gestures I am going to make at this moment. (Senator Russo speaks again using the Italian sign language.) Entering into the substance of the draft law under consideration, let me say that it is difficult to deny the delay, which I have mentioned, with which we get to discuss it in the Chamber also related to the controversy and debate that have crossed the world of deafness in Italy in recent years. This is a debate that I believe we will also deepen in the debate that we are going to have and that I would like to be able to unravel and resolve, so that we can finally overcome it, after so many years; a debate that, if we want, has its roots even in a congress that talked about these issues in Milan in 1880. It is indeed too many years and it would be nice for this measure to succeed, among other things, in helping to overcome once and for all the divisions of the past. I want to say this forcefully: the text we are debating does not want to agree with one another, to favour some alleged lobbying or association at the expense of another. It is intended only for the protection of deaf people and not of one or other operator in the sector. Together, in a very beautiful work of the Commission, we had the ambition to make our country take a step forward in the more general field of the inclusion of all people with auditory disabilities, guaranteeing more rights and trying to get more attention for those who live with this limit and I can say that, thanks to the contribution of everyone, I think it has really taken more than a few steps forward. We have listened in recent months, even through dozens of hearings that have helped us to understand and really listen to all the different positions - sometimes even to make them meet - the reasons of each one: from the members of the so-called teaching community to those who defend the good reasons for the use of spoken and written language for deaf people. In the articles of this provision we did not raise the problem of who was more right between oralists and marks, even if more and more times this was asked of us, but I believe that the task of the legislator is different: what we have tried to fulfill is to raise the level of protection and guarantee for all, hoping to have thus contributed to overcoming ancient prejudices and divisions that are no longer current and certainly not useful to the cause of deaf people. Within the framework of the principle, which we have repeatedly reiterated, of the absolute and unavoidable freedom of choice on the part of families, this rule undoubtedly introduces a novelty that wants to be an enlargement of opportunities. As I said before, after twenty years a law reaches the full recognition of the Italian sign language, or of the Italian sign language, as it is more right to call it, and next to this tactile LIS, for people who have a further difficulty, deaf people. The LIS as an instrument of full citizenship, with the dignity of having become in the years real language, not simple language, endowed with its specific vocabulary, a syntax, a grammar, that allow those who use it the same level of expressive refinement of a spoken language. In recent years - it is the experience of many - we have fortunately become increasingly accustomed to the public use of LIS: some, although too few news, the speech of the President of the Republic at the end of the year, great events in which the translator in sign language appears on stage, the possibility for students to use this instrument in universities. And as a testimony to the expressive richness of LIS, we know that even more are the occasions when deaf people have become the protagonists of artistic events related to poetry, theater, cinema and other expressive arts. The measure therefore takes a first big step, stressing the need to offer quality services and to invest, for example, on the decisive quality of interpreters, putting our country in step with the United Nations Convention which, talking about the rights of persons with disabilities, approved in the UN General Assembly a declaration of 2006 that recognized the role of sign language as a form of communication, as a means of inclusion, as a guarantee of freedom of access to information, as an instrument of education, finally as an expression of cultural identity. But - it should be emphasized precisely in order to begin to blunt and disassemble some prejudices that still exist - from the reading of the title it is clear that this measure is not limited to the proper recognition of the language of signs. This, also because it was drafted within the first Commission, constitutional affairs, is a framework law, which aims to widen the field of rights for the full exercise of the right of citizenship by all the deaf Italians, oralists and marks. A rule that reaffirms the commitment of the Republic to use all communication and language channels: subtitling, new technologies, interpreting services in LIS and tactile LIS, to remove all barriers to the understanding of communication, to promote full school and university inclusion, accessibility to workplaces, health structures, historical, artistic and cultural heritage, transport, structures and public administration services. Let's face it with absolute clarity: the call to LIS is in no way in contradiction with the awareness that the present, and even more the future of those born with hypoacusis, even in deep deafness forms, is and will have to be more and more that of tending to the mastery of the written and spoken language. Let us not contradict the two because they are not. If they have been so in the past, that is not the issue that we must stress. I was lucky enough to visit in these months structures of excellence in our country, in which the children born deep deaf, for which there had been a timely diagnosis, the immediate use of the prosthesis, the implant of modern cochlear devices in the very first months of life, have been seen to return from the technology and from the care of specialized personnel, practically integrally, what nature had removed from them. That is the objective we must aim for, we know that. At the same time, this bill gives an answer that is obviously not yet the optimal one, for which we must work in the future. To this objective, i.e. the recovery of a full written and oral linguistic mastery - it is said in the bill - must aim at the intervention of all public structures: from the health ones, called to activate, through neonatal screening, as referred to in Article 3, timely interventions that avoid delivering in the first decisive months of life children to an isolation that would impact heavily on future cognitive paths; up to the educational and university institutions, in which, as we know, the chance of full citizenship of each of us is played. Let me say a more specific word about investment in training, to which Articles 5 and 6 in particular are devoted. Our country already does a lot and in this provision we recall the many positive actions that already take place in this field. Italy has been a pioneer in the overcoming of special schools - I know it also from professional experience; as a pedagogist I have dealt with it in a particular way - in the integration of children and children with disabilities in the class group, along with all the other normodated peers. But the experience of these years and the excellences that we have met, even with the work of the Commission - I am thinking of the school in Cossato or the institute "Magarotto" in Via Nomentana in Rome - tell us that perhaps it is possible to do even more, and that the experimental paths of LIS-Italian bilingualism, with the ambition to make them bud in at least every Italian Province, can guarantee more the valorization of diversity as mutual enrichment and concentrate on a limited number of resource classes, didactic innovation and collaboration with university research. Let me remind you about this - it is a small incident, but I am interested because I know that some of my colleagues have also presented some agendas and it is a commitment that we have also presented to the competent minister - the serious situation of the institution for deaf people in Via Nomentana. It was not possible to intervene in this measure to deal with it, but we really hope that we can resolve as soon as possible the problems of a structure that has distinguished itself from experience and competence of absolute level, even for its employees who are currently experiencing a difficult situation. Finally, I reserve the right to listen and to respond promptly to the speeches which are certainly going to be in general discussion and which I hope will help us to get rid of the doubts surrounding this measure to the full, if any. I would like to make two last remarks which I hope will facilitate the dissolution of these doubts, partly because I really hope that at the end of this debate the vote on such a sensitive subject will be broad, cross-cutting, of the entire Italian Parliament, precisely because the waiting outside is very great. It is an issue on which I believe politics can try not to divide. The founding principle of this bill - I have remembered but I want to repeat it - is the freedom of choice: of deaf people and their families. The objective we have pursued is to broaden the opportunities, not to reduce them. And it is evident from the reading of each of the articles of the provision. But I want to say this even more precisely: anyone who thinks that recognizing the LIS means imposing it on those who have chosen other paths can really be sure that it is not so, not only because it would be contrary to this rule and the Constitution, but because the objective of our work goes exactly in the opposite direction. We want the new technologies in the future to allow all children born deaf in Italy to fully overcome their deficit, and the law goes in this direction, but we believe it is right to acknowledge that for tens of thousands of adult people today LIS is a fundamental tool of active citizenship and that Italian and international scientific studies confirm that LIS-Italian bilingualism can be an added value for young people as well. A final reference to Article 15 and the financing of this measure. The drafting of the technical reports of the Ministries has allowed to greatly reduce the forecast of initial expenditure, but I think it is important to emphasize that the 2 million euros, which will probably be identified and allocated, will be destined to cover the forecast of Article 3 concerning the prediction and dissemination of neonatal screening in the Essential levels of assistance (LEA) throughout the national territory. Just the neonatal screening, what we have identified as the decisive junction for an early and effective path of acquisition of the spoken and written language today, unfortunately - and it is a further shame - is a right accessible only to those who live in four or five regions of our country; this is perhaps the main injustice to overcome and we would like to do so to give full implementation to the predictions of this law. I will end with a quote. An author who is dear to me, Elias Canetti, in the novel "La Lingua Salvata" tells in a wonderful way which is the weight and conditioning, positive and negative, of the languages in the life of each of us: In fact, I believe that knowing is part of wanting to make itself manifest and not content with a hidden existence. This is really the inspiration of this law and the hope that we are giving ourselves in the hope that we will achieve a very long-awaited measure outside this House. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD, LN-Aut, Senator Serra and government benches. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who have worked well at this time to bring together the various measures and, above all, to make the final draft law, which I hope we will adopt unanimously this morning, the instrument which will enable our country to see, from South to North, from East to West, the same attention from public institutions, not only towards the deaf, deaf and deaf, but also towards another reality. I am speaking in relation to the amending proposal which I have taken forward and which has been accepted - and I thank the Commission and the rapporteur for that - precisely in relation to the fact that in addition to these realities there is another one which has been included in Article 1 and which I am going to deal with in particular because it is from it that my interest in sign language has been born. In paragraph 3 of Article 1 we have provided that the measures provided for in this law apply in favour of persons with only communicative disabilities not due to deafness. I am pleased to read you a part of a letter I received in 2015 from a brave mother, with whom we have exchanged many e-mails since then. This mother adopted a child at the age of three, who came to Italy and was suffering from gold-facial dysprasia; basically she is mute, but she sees us and feels us. This little girl was welcomed into a really smart and courageous family, who understood how the LIS language could be able to promote its existence within a new society that welcomed it and thanks to it entered primary school in an absolutely positive way. The first year of primary school for Lisa Fantin was an extremely positive year. I quote a couple of phrases that this mother writes to me and I give them to this Assembly, in order to make it understandable how the Italian school succeeds at the same time to assume that evidence of excellent quality, precisely for the human relationships that are created and for the quality of teaching, but, at the same time, manages - ahinoi - to sink into the difficulty, if not indifference, if they change the persons and institutions in charge. Lisa Fantin's mom says: The handicap of my daughter, the gold-facial dysprassia, leads her to not be able to speak. He cannot program the movement of the mouth and, therefore, has difficulty in getting the words out at the phonetic level. He attended the first year of the school "Pravato di Paese." Now we are at the end of this year and it has been - I must say - full of emotions and growth for the child. Excellent work on the part of the school team, both for the support teacher and for the role teachers in the class. The credit goes to them, for having recognized Lisa's handicap but, at the same time, allowing her to be perfectly included. Not integrated, but included. So the Senate Health Commission has done well to insist on this issue in relation to normal and ordinary integration. True inclusion means dialogue, it means what Senator Russo said now, it means the possibility of understanding oneself, precisely, and of living simultaneously within society without particular problems. Well these teachers have learned the LIS language on their own for what was indispensable, but this child has been lucky enough to have a support teacher who knew this language and for her it has been a happy year. All this, however, is over. That same support teacher the next year was gone. The ASLs, the Province, the school management did not want, or knew, to understand the difficulty of this family towards this child, who came home from school every day sadder and more in difficulty, with a risk of neurological damage and a really serious risk of dementia (we are in the first years of life, within the framework of the constitution of that necessity of belonging to the world that is so important to exist, as people and as social persons). Well, that was happening and the parents, at this point, decided to spend a great deal to be able to accompany this child a teacher, whom they themselves paid, and, at the same time, resort to the TAR and set up autonomous training courses for teachers thanks to the help of the University of Venice. What are we doing with this law? Let me tell you. This is what Mr Russo said before: we must be very proud in this legislature for human and civil rights that we have succeeded in bringing to the fore these classrooms, by approving important draft laws. And I say it with absolute determination and without the subject of denial. Yesterday we did it with regard to minors, with the bill on cyberbullying, a beautiful law that was passed. I hope that this law too will quickly come out of both the classrooms, of Chamber and Senate, and that Italy can finally adopt, in a not unequal but homogeneous way for the whole of Italy, a law that guarantees Italian minors their absolute right: inclusion in school and the possibility of expressing themselves in a language also known to others. Article 5, in this sense, is an excellent model that finally puts us on the same footing as the best European countries. Finally, I would like to point out that, precisely within this Article 5, all competent public administrations guarantee the provision of services aimed at the support and inclusion of these pupils, providing technical and technological aids, providing appropriate support teachers, communication assistants. The MIUR is committed to preparing professionals duly qualified to teach LIS and LIS tactile for the different roles of communication assistant and autonomy assistant, so as to determine national standards in the training paths for access to such professionalism. Today is really a special day, because this iter begins which allows, as the rapporteur, Francesco Russo, rightly said, the right to respect and to the full inclusion of our children in this country in all school areas, finally with clarity and finally without having to pity what is a right and that represents an urgent necessity. Thank you very much for this important program startup. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u9	Mr President, this bill has certainly given rise to many expectations. I thank the rapporteur for his report and for the work he has done in the Commission. In the course of the report, with some passages he made in sign language, he touched our hearts, because he showed his commitment and his participation in the problems of the people we are dealing with today. However, I would like to say to you, rapporteur, that we must not be ashamed of being Italian, nor in general, nor even on this point, because, if it is true that up to now there has not been a specific law concerning deaf people, it has been since 18 February 1992 that there is a law dealing with disability in general. At the time the word "handicapped" was used, then there was the race for euphemisms, which is known to be unstoppable: the word "handicapped" has become politically incorrect and other words must be used. However, speaking clearly to us, they are people who have not heard or who are severely handicapped. Well, in this 1992 law, we are talking about rights (e.g. school integration) and the care that must be provided in general to people who have impairments or disabilities. There are also specific quotations on the issue of deaf people. For example, Article 9 (1) specifically mentions the right of deaf people to communicate with sign language. Therefore, it is good to make progress, but let's not say that Italy was behind. Italy was ahead, because the 1992 law came before standards that arrived at European level and before standards that arrived at UN level; let's leave it alone how much the United Nations norms are applied, because in many countries there is no need to have disability or disability in order to not even be able to take advantage of fundamental rights. However, even the noble words, which often remain such, of the United Nations have come after a concrete law passed in Italy, of which I believe none of the present have merit, on matters of seniority. Therefore - I repeat - Italy is not behind and is not an uncivilized country; it was not then and let us try to make sure that it is not today. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] As far as this measure is concerned, it has undergone a major development and a considerable transformation in the course of its examination, which once again demonstrates the usefulness of parliamentary work. The problems associated with the arrangement that this rule had at the beginning were considerable and may still be so; there is still a lack of consideration by the House, in which it will of course be possible to include - and I think it will be - further amendments to the text. However, the initial wording and those that have been created during the work in the Commission have given rise to considerable concerns and positions, not from people who are insensitive to this problem, but precisely from associations that bring families or people together with this problem. I remember the National Committee of Parents with disabilities, various non-profit organizations, the President of the Italian Society of Otorinolaryngoiatria, the President of the Italian Society of audiology and radiology and dozens of professors of these specialties who gave their support. Let us not forget the Italian Federation for overcoming the handicap, which has also been audited in the Commission, the Italian Families associated for the defense of the rights of the audiolesi, the Onlus Audientes, the deaf Association and so on. There is also an emotional aspect in the examination of the provision - and it is right that there is - because good things also come from the heart, but let's remember that we must do above all serious work, that we stick to reality, and knowing that even with the best intentions we run the risk of doing something that goes beyond good intentions, that can not always have the desired effect. There are - it is good to know - various alternatives to sign language. Those who use and find themselves well with this way of communicating must be supported, and there is no doubt about that, but there is certainly general agreement in this House. However, we must not neglect the other techniques, including lip reading, whose teaching must be possible at a child's age, because as children the situation is clearly different from that of adults, who run the risk of losing their physical abilities, not only those physiological ones, for the articulation of language. I remember that in my family a person (now missing, because he would be almost a hundred years old), who totally lost his hearing at the age of five, learned to speak (with methodologies that could have access to a refugee of the 1920s who went from Russia to Yugoslavia), in an audible and fully understandable way. As a total deaf person he learned to speak and understand, with the lip language, several other languages, including English, which is rather complicated as phonetic for those who are of Slavic language, and then Italian, and also deaf. In this way he managed to live autonomously abroad. And this is a methodology. Then there are the solutions offered by technology, much more recent, such as cochlear implants that allow a full recovery and inclusion in the social field. Therefore, we do not send messages, I am not saying wrong, but misleading: deaf people do not only have the sign language at their disposal. I would point out that it is a language that unfortunately, even if it could be, is not the same in all countries: by its nature it should be universal, because many gestures are evocative, symbolic and clearly expressive and intuitive - in other cases, instead, the intuition is more difficult - but, unfortunately, the countries change and the language of gestures also changes. And this is unfortunately a problem - the language of gestures would be interesting even for people who hear us very well - and it is not the only one. Having said that, we fully agree on overcoming any barrier that, in general, afflicts people who have difficulties of any kind. Today we deal in particular with deaf people or with a very limited hearing ability, but let us not forget the other disabilities. Above all, we must pay attention to one important aspect, namely the economic coverage of the measure, so that we do not risk remaining in the "good principles." Note that the "good principles" have already been introduced by the 1992 law. The draft law before us contains some adaptations to more recent rules that need to be contemplated, which is correct. It is no coincidence, however, that the examination of this bill in this House has been delayed by the emergence of certain issues during the examination by the Budget Commission. This is not a purely technical matter - quite the contrary - because, if there is no cover, we can have the best intentions, but to achieve them, we need resources. Many times we can solve certain problems of a purely bureaucratic nature with a law at zero cost, but in this case we are talking about ensuring assistance, support and equipment such as those mentioned - for example - by Article 3, of which we strongly emphasize the validity and which refers to the early identification of deafness and deafness and to the instruments to mitigate and correct hearing and visual deficits. To do all this, it takes money. I remember that diagnosis is expensive, equipment that should be provided and adapted to individual people is burdensome, so there is a financial coverage problem. In the budget committee this problem has been discussed and the allocation in the measure is very, very limited. So, without prejudice - I repeat - to the bureaucratic aspects that can be overcome by some parts of this bill, with regard to the part relating to assistance, which plans to really provide people who need services and facilities, without resources, cannot be realized. It has also been said that funds are already available for the treatment of diseases or physical problems of any kind of people. If they are funds that have already been allocated, it is obvious, however, that today someone uses them badly and, while there are resources, people with problems do not find a solution; otherwise, if the resources available are well used - and I believe the truth is more on this side - it means that, if there are a hundred people with extra hearing problems, there will be maybe a hundred less with other problems. So good intentions are good, but if not supported by the means to deal with them, they risk remaining so without having effects, if not purely emotional. Margaret Thatcher said, having naturally discussed how often she was, that no one would remember - starting with the one who told the story - the good Samaritan if he had not had the means to provide for the poor man who had been left in a pesto and dying ditch. This seems to be a cynical approach but, in fact, it would not have been enough just the good intentions, which probably also had all those who had pretended not to see the poor man. Instead, those with the means could care for those in need. The rapporteur, Senator Russo - I thank him again for the work he has done - said that the funds provided for this law, although very limited, will be used to cover the forecasts contained in Article 3. If this proposal is confirmed - we shall see it through some of the rapporteur's amendments - we will be happy to give our full support with a vote in favour of the measure. Otherwise, we reserve the right to study what is proposed to us in order to prevent good intentions from being supported by the means available to implement them or to lead in different directions from those which we all hope for. I conclude my speech by stressing the full support of the Group of Forza Italia for policies to overcome any limit of people who have some disadvantage compared to others, but who are often of great teaching to others for the ability to overcome difficulties, even under the most adverse conditions, that we must propose to make less difficult for their full inclusion in the social sphere. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u10	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Russo, for dealing with a subject on which I have been working as a regional adviser to Emilia-Romagna for many years, as well as a point which I would like to make further and perhaps clarify. The discussion lasted for many years on the need for specialization - I am talking about schools such as the Tommaso Pellegrini Institute in Modena and other structures - for the complete recovery of a deaf child through an early diagnosis and a mechanism different from the inclusion in the public school in classes of nomads. Recovering a child with a support teacher who attends him an hour a day is an illusion. I remember that in the 1980s in Emilia-Romagna I was in opposition with Christian Democracy and there was still the Soviet Union. In order to convince my colleagues in the then Communist Party, I brought a lot of material from specialists in the Soviet Union, who laughed at Western specialists who claimed that a support mechanism at school was sufficient for the recovery of deaf children. They said that illusions were being made, because a child can be totally recovered provided that it is placed in a specialized facility and followed twenty-four hours a day. The bill does an intelligent thing because of the fragmentation of skills in Italy. The specialized schools in Modena, Rome and the other few that remain depend on the Provinces or local health units. As a result, families who choose the early mechanism of integral recovery of children, putting them in a position to speak substantially as a hearing person, cannot then pay the fees. Therefore, we have a system in which, with all the reforms made, with the repeal of the Provinces and the transfer of competences to the local health units, freedom of choice does not actually exist. I believe that one of the cornerstones of the bill is the freedom of choice of families, which is the most important thing. Those who have such a problem to solve are right to choose which types of education and insertion to give to the child. If one believes in the specialized school that takes care of the children 24 hours a day, he will choose that experience; those who think, instead, that the inclusion of the child in the deaf school with the help of a support teacher can give results, will make that choice. Surely the language of gestures unifies everyone. We, now, have to deal not only with the problem of auditory pathology, but also with many immigrants who arrive in Italy at an age when early recovery can no longer be achieved and it is illusory to think that we can teach them to speak. At that point it is clear that they can only focus on the language of gestures. I would like it to be clear that the combined arrangement of this really allows freedom of choice. And I could recall the experience of Vice-President of the Emilia-Romagna Region Gualmini, who had an uncle priest who, in Modena, followed a specialized school. The performances made at Christmas or Easter with children whom they had taught to speak perfectly were an act of failure of the method of school integration, because a child inserted in a school of deaf children in thirty loses several years without any result and recover the lost time after it becomes very difficult. I believe that the idea of including specialized staff in all Italian schools from Trento to Trapani that teaches deaf children to speak is unrealistic. We have support teachers who are able to cope with different types of disability, but who lack a specific specialization. I believe that this is a matter on which to think. What remains of the specialization in Italy should be valued in order to allow families who want it, without charge, a full recovery of their child and of course allow the necessary support, without giving particular illusions that in the school it is possible to recover the child in those conditions with one hour a week. I am also thinking of a language of gestures which, of course, is not in competition with these types of reality, because today a child is able to learn both to speak and to learn sign language and therefore - as my colleague Mr Malan said - even if born in poor conditions, in reality with languages for us ugly, he can be able to integrate completely. It seems to me that this bill goes in that direction. Perhaps with the amendments tabled and reflecting on the strange affair of the competences in our country divided between local health companies, Province and State, you will find the practical system. Compared to the funds allocated (at local, health and central state level), the objective must be clearly defined, which is the whole recovery of the child born with hearing problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u12	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Tommaso Aiello" in Bagheria, in the province of Palermo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u13	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to point out to the rapporteur, whom I welcome in his report, that we can finally align ourselves with the other European countries by recognizing the Italian sign language and the tactile LIS. Now we are finally at the full recognition of the Italian sign language. The legislative measures that are summarized in the text proposed by the Commission - it is clear - are all aimed at improving the conditions of inclusion in the social life of people with hearing or deaf-blind disabilities in the process of standardisation of activities, facilitating access to education, the world of work and the relationship with public administration. All these principles are rights enshrined in the Constitutional Charter and are certainly recalled - as Senator Malan said earlier - by Law No 104 of 1992 and Article 9 (1) of the draft law under consideration, but that is not enough at all. This is an extra important step. It's a step of civilization. Precious is the article 5 of the bill for the guarantee of the provision of all services aimed at the support and inclusion of the deaf pupil with auditory or deaf-blind disabilities, including the presence, depending on the needs of each, of the teacher of support, the assistant to communication - in the case of deaf pupils - and the assistant to autonomy and communication - in the case of deaf pupils - of the interpreter in LIS and tactile LIS, technological aids, other resources and operators that ensure full participation and accessibility to school and extra-school activities. I have to say that in my experience I had boys, students, but also administrative assistants, as well as deaf ATA staff, which I followed the difficult road to normalization. I think this extra step is really civilization. Very positive is also the fact that, without prejudice to the teaching of the spoken and written Italian language, the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) guarantees access to educational paths that, according to the free choice of deaf students (frees precisely), provided on scientifically validated approaches, with auditory disabilities in general and of deaf people and their families, promote bilingualism between the spoken and written Italian language and the LIS or, in the case of deaf students, total communication. The Republic therefore promotes in the relations between citizens and public administration the use of every accessible and inclusive communication methodology, such as the LIS and the tactile LIS, and of every accessible and inclusive technical and IT tool suitable to facilitate communication of, with and between deaf and deaf people, including smartphones, tablets and similar devices. It also promotes the provision of interpreting services in LIS and tactile LIS and the availability of all communication channels and tools to promote for all deaf people the full use of the services and resources offered to the generality of citizens. Others, however, are articles aimed at facilitating inclusion and facilitating access to health areas, the world of culture, art and mobility, through means of transport, and political participation. In paragraph 2 of Article 11 we find the provision according to which the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate of the Republic, the Regions and local authorities promote interpreting services in tactile LIS and LIS and subtitles at public plenary meetings and any other event of general interest. The modernity and civilization of a state are measured also by the widespread use of technologies and a social state system that guarantees equal rights and the achievement of equality and equal opportunities especially for people who, despite them, are less fortunate. I quote the UN Convention on the Recognition of the LIS, which is finally implemented in our system - I stress and repeat that we are the last in Europe - and I hope that it will also be the prelude to an extension of the protections guaranteed by Law 104 for the assistance, social integration and rights of disabled people, namely the possibility of access to all services within hospitals, schools and universities. In the world of education and education it is known how managing diversity is a complex operation, difficult and deserving of going ahead and taking further steps, as it will be through this law. For the most part, when it comes to deaf people, the only perception is that there is a world apart, very complex and heterogeneous. It doesn't have to be a world apart. I do not want to go into the differences already highlighted by the rapporteur between oralists and marksmen, an aspect which has already been examined. It seems to me, however, a duty to remember, before concluding, the meritorious activity carried out in order to achieve the objectives that are here before us today and that aim at full inclusion from the oldest schools for the deaf: the State Institute of the Sordomuti in Rome, 1784; the Institute of Daughters of Charity for the Sordomute in Verona, 1833; the Establishment of the Sordomuti in Parma, 1826; the Provincial Institute of the Sordomuti in Gorizia, 1835. Here two masters, Pagan and Thoman, gathered some deaf-mute of both sexes to educate and educate them with the conventional method. The school inspector, a certain Valentino Stanig, appreciated the results of the teachers, founded the Stabilimento per sorduti, which became part of the public administration in 1840. Look what was there and look what's not here today. There is always time, sometimes, to learn from the past. I don't go any further, but I think it is necessary to emphasize the work of ENS (Ente Nazionale Sordi), which in Friuli-Venezia Giulia is based in Valmaura, deserving above all with regard to multiple disabilities, i.e. deaf people, and what is also being done by the Regional Rittmeyer Institute in Trieste, a school of national and international excellence, whose experiences have proved to be valuable to promote the full participation and social inclusion of deaf and deaf people in collective life and for the recognition of the language of Italian signs. This is crucial. In all phases, from the cradle to the end of life, a right is guaranteed for those who do not see and do not feel, who must be seriously and effectively enforced, eliminating the barriers of communication and always including, with a gesture or tactile communication, technological and above all human, those who live in silence and, sometimes, in silence and even in darkness. To this end, I believe that the continuing training of qualified professionals is fundamental and indispensable. Today, with real praise, we can therefore mark another step forward and a sign of civilization for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u15	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u16	Mr President - as the rapporteur has rightly said - that is a draft law which we have been waiting for for 20 years and which perhaps needs to be distorted, in order to allow the Budget Commission a serenity in approving what is within its competence. It's all right what we've told ourselves so far and that we'll tell each other during the regulatory process, but then the economic issue will have its importance. This is an important and interesting topic, which stems from the desire to understand, analyse and evaluate legislation and possibly bilingualism projects for the integration of deaf and deaf children. Even today, school institutions are unprepared to face up to the education of the deaf. Mr President, the fact of not hearing deprives the subject of the spontaneous acquisition of verbal language and, at the same time, if the subject is not properly educated, can alter the formation of the adaptation schemes, which support the formation and development of the person. For this reason, building a deaf identity for a child has difficulty in forming, integrating and emerging in society. Sensory isolation becomes communicative isolation, with disruptive consequences on behavior, such as irruence, discomfort, instability, anxiety, fear and incommunicability. If you do not benefit from early interventions, the deaf person may risk internalizing reality in a distorted way. It is important to remember that a deaf child has the same learning potential as a hearing child: the difference between the two children, which must be taken into account in education, lies in the privileged use of the sensory channel used in communication, which for the deaf is sight. For these reasons deaf children have the right to learn the two languages: sign language and Italian language. The Italian sign language is a real language, with its grammar and culture and, as many, allows not only to communicate, but also to develop cognitive thinking and skills. It is necessary to speak of the bilingual education of the deaf child in Italian society, considering that the word "deafness" is generally used to indicate an auditory sensory deficit: not a physical handicap to be masked and cured, but a human resource generating culture. The problem of deafness has its roots in the individual's relationship with society: deafness is invisible and recognizable only when communicating. Thus deaf people do not always receive from the hearing all the necessary attention and willingness to communicate and integrate. This exclusion causes a great deal of stress, especially in children, which considerably aggravates the handicap. Among the reasons for the aggressive behavior of the deaf child is perhaps also the sense of impotence in the face of the difficulty of communicating with parents, schoolmates and teachers. I myself, Mr President, in my own small and on behalf of the whole Group, have tabled a draft law which, with some happiness, is among the five drafts of law today for the attention of the House. We have tried to focus attention above all on the discipline of accessibility to communication and information in public and private places and on relations with public administration. There was also talk of school, where competent public administrators ensured the provision of all services to support the integration of deaf, deaf and disabled students. No less important are occupational inclusion and lifelong learning, equal opportunities and full accessibility to work environments and workplaces, resources and training courses. Special attention was also paid to the issue of maritime, land and air transport stations as points where an interpretation service is provided in LIS. Political participation could not be lacking: measures are also needed to make information campaigns and electoral forums accessible and fully usable. Sign language is not a universal communicative code, but there are as many sign languages as there are deaf communities all over the planet, which - just like the vocal languages - were born spontaneously. The sign languages are very different from the gestures that are spontaneously used during a normal conversation: unlike gestures, in fact, they are a system of relatively arbitrary symbols and grammatical rules that change over time and that members of a community share and use for the most diverse purposes. Contrary to what one might think, the vocabulary of sign languages makes it possible to express any concept, whether real or abstract. Then there is a question that often arises spontaneously and it is perhaps the most recurrent one, that is, what is the most effective method in the education of the deaf child's language. There are many variables: the success of a rehabilitation path may depend on the method followed, but each child is unique and is different. The history of the education of the deaf has always been immersed in a strong controversy on many issues, in particular on the use of methods. They have been invented and even at present the most disparate methods are proposed, each of which was and is often considered decisive. Among these methods the strongest opposition, for the different educational, linguistic, cultural and social implications, was that between the oral method and what, for simplicity, we call gesture. As is well known, language is perhaps the most complex phenomenon that exists and, therefore, the measurement of the same is absolutely difficult, if not objectively impossible. Let's imagine if this measurement is then applied and required on subjects who have hearing problems. The important thing, Mr President, is that this measure has a quiet and not a bumpy path, because the question raised by the Budget Commission is of particular concern to our Group. It would probably be interesting for us too a law that governs sign language, which perhaps would be more useful for the two Chambers and the Government, which are really sometimes the first to be deaf to these problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u17	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u18	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a very complex and delicate job in completing this measure in the Commission, and I would like to thank him for the balance with which he has done it, but above all for having accepted most of the points made by the Health Commission, in relation to both the general approach of the text and to certain specific issues. I express, therefore, a particular appreciation for this measure that responds to the needs that are still too little heard and addressed in a way that is still inadequate in all their aspects. So let us welcome the debate in this House on the draft law, which, moreover, perhaps still requires - and I hope it will be possible to do so during these last hours of work - some further improvement. I would like briefly to recall the difficulties we have all faced - and the rapporteur is all the more correct - with regard to this issue because, when it comes to deaf people, we have very different views on how to try to respond to their needs. There is a view of those who believe that deaf people should be framed as linguistic minority or as communities of different: a position supported by many, even by some associations. Then there is another position within the various facets of other visions which, on the other hand, believes that people who are deaf, even in compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as well as with our Constitution, should be considered and protected in their rights as persons, and not as minorities. I personally believe that this second vision must prevail, because it is certainly much more inclusive and much more capable of giving answers to everyone in respect of the freedom of choice that has rightly been included in the text. I think deaf people should be respected as people and not as linguistic minorities. For this reason, I would suggest that we carefully review all the moments in which this bill speaks of bilingualism, i.e. whether it is appropriate to refer to bilingualism, in fact recognizing the linguistic minority, or if it is not rather the special needs of people. Dealing with them as minorities means recognizing an identity that risks separating rather than including. That is why I would like to suggest a number of comments with a view to examining the amendments and any proposals that the rapporteur would like to make. Firstly, in order to increase the real possibility of social inclusion - as is rightly said in the title of the bill, appropriately amended - it is necessary to reaffirm the development of every form of communication alternative to the spoken language, rather than focus attention - as in some cases remained in the provision - only on the language of signs and on the language of tactile signs. We all know that, thanks to technological development, there are now ways of communication that can facilitate and improve the communication of deaf people in a substantial way, increasing communication and alternative communication in different ways and instruments. But above all a law must be able to look into perspective too. To this end, I believe that innovations, which sometimes come forward but which could be further developed in the future, can be included in the measure and be applied immediately, without focusing only on an instrument that has certainly had great value in recent years, but which cannot be the only one. I would therefore suggest, where we are talking about LIS or tactile LIS, that we expand the concept by replacing it with any form of communication alternative to spoken language. As far as I am concerned, the fundamental issue, if we want to deal with it above all in a non-short-term perspective, is that everything that can be done is done to prevent the consequences of hearing problems, especially in children, especially at birth and even earlier in pregnancy. And I thank you for accepting our suggestion to that effect. I, too, therefore, believe that funds should be made available for health interventions. We know that, if you are diagnosed early or even if you intervene during your mother's pregnancy, deafness can be dealt with much more easily by teaching your child to speak. When children are able to speak despite the problems of deafness - I think it is the experience of many of us - it is truly the sign of a spectacular solution: listening to children who speak so much that they cannot imagine that they were actually and are deaf children who have learned to speak. I therefore believe that the funds are intended primarily for these actions and not necessarily for installations, which must be made when they are needed. I know very well that someone says that there is the lobby of the plant: well, there is scientific evidence that determines when the plants serve and when they do not serve, but above all it is necessary a very early diagnosis in the very first days or anyway in the very first months of life. Let me say, appreciating the work carried out, that there are still redundancyes in a text that has tried to put together elements that came from different texts and visions and also from very different requests. There are redundancyes; many things are enunciations, which also refer to rights already enshrined in many laws, and sometimes you are relatively vague in making an enunciation. I am thinking, for example, of Article 14, which gives public administrations the opportunity to monitor and sanction without giving further indications, which means, in my opinion, that either we refer to the laws that already exist - and then perhaps it is not necessary to write it - or we have to give clearer indications. There is one subject, which I would like to share with my colleagues and on which I would like to dwell, on which I know that there can be very different positions. I refer to paragraph 3 of Article 5, which provides for the activation of mixed classes of deaf students and deaf students with bilingual curricula. I believe that we must do everything possible, as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we transposed in 2009, also lays down in order to ensure that these children and students have a school course, education, educational progress and socialisation. I wonder then, with great attention and respect for all positions, whether to form mixed classes, with bilingual curriculum, Italian language and sign language, in which the two languages are taught to all students and in which will inevitably be enrolled deaf students of the school is the best way to socialize and overcome the difficulties of these students. I know very well that there are positive experiences in this regard, my concern is that then the application, which not necessarily, as when it is experimental, and only in some cases is made with the utmost attention to respect for people who have more problems than others and special needs, risks giving rise to results that may not be the best. My concern is that there may be bilingual classes in which the sign language is joined to the Italian language, which means recognizing deaf people as a linguistic minority and even asking other children to help them socialize not so that they are able to do it everywhere, but by learning sign language. It is right, but I believe that within the classes there are some risks, when we are not even able to support the support teacher, specifically equipped to give an answer to these children. Everyone must have a possible teacher of support and must be distributed in the school in such a way that they are not concentrated in a single class and can know different realities and above all a true socialization. In conclusion, Mr President, in many cases we are talking about promoting right actions and instruments that must be adopted in support of these people, in other cases we are talking about guaranteeing. If you say guarantee, you have to put money in it and you have to be able to implement it effectively; if you don't put money on, we write to promote it. I think it is absolutely important to promote, but to give the possibility to those who actually want to promote it and to do so in such a way as to ensure the full participation of adults and, in particular, children in collective life, as the title of the bill rightly states. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u19	We greet Dr. Shoshanna Makover, Head of Reporting Office, Dr. Yitzchak Yehuda, Director of Application Projects, and Dr. Oren Bar, Director of Research and Development at the Information Department of the Israeli Parliament, who attend our work. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I must begin by expressing my satisfaction because, especially in recent months, this House has been dealing with disability issues several times. I am thinking of Tuesday's debate on people with intellectual disabilities and Down syndrome, but above all I am thinking of a law of great civilization such as after us. In recent weeks I have personally taken part in various initiatives on my territory, such as the Assembly of ANFFAS, that of the Blind Union, the inauguration of the new headquarters of the Trento section of the Deaf National Authority. I mention them all, to say how in each of these circumstances I was able to appreciate the many steps forward that have been taken to ensure a better quality of life, a better form of care for disabled people and their families, but above all to increase the degree of access to community life. Of course, as we also said during the sitting of the day before yesterday, there is still much to be done to remove all the material and cultural barriers that still exist. In Italy we are often at the forefront of principles and statements, but too often we are lacking in the implementation of rights. The language of signs for deaf, deaf and disabled hearing is a real language, with its own specific morphology, syntactic and lexical, and not only a mode of expression of the spoken language. There are more than thirty recognized in the world and today, as the Russian rapporteur said well, we are the only European country, together with Luxembourg, which has not yet recognized the sign language after the 2006 UN Convention in New York, which was later ratified by our country in 2009. The recognition of the language is essential in order to guarantee everyone full access to the sacred right to express themselves in their own language and, therefore, is a subject not very different from that of all linguistic minorities. We are well aware that this is not only a symbolic fact, but that it is a substantive right, which can no longer be postponed in time: on television as in the major public events the interpreter LIS is increasingly present, proving a social sensitivity that has grown over time, to which the institutions must now adapt, filling the delay that has come to be created. The measure that we are debating today has had an articulated path and it is absolutely positive that we have reached a single text, demonstrating that this is an issue on which the political forces must find convergence. The work done in the Commission has been very important, and I believe that all its members, the authors of the legislative proposals, the rapporteur, all the colleagues who have worked on the measure must be acknowledged. It was a work of great commitment, which involved many associations and companies operating in the sector and which collected the testimonies, requests and valuable contribution of experience. In particular, I would like to thank the Deaf National Authority and all the other organizations that have collaborated and that guarantee on the territory the possibility for all these people to lead a more acceptable life. I have no doubt in saying that without them, without these prepared and motivated realities, today our society could guarantee very little. The result of this work is in the completeness of the measure, which really addresses a plurality of issues, all important. For reasons of time I go for titles: prevention and early identification of deafness phenomena, psychological support interventions, the establishment of specialised centres, increasing accessibility through new technologies and the development of dedicated software; universal accessibility to environments, buildings, institutions and artistic and cultural events; advertising awareness campaigns; access to emergency and emergency services and public administration; availability of interpreting services and training courses for interpreters; availability of support teachers and communication assistants in schools; access to university and postgraduate education; access to public transport. My hope is that, once the text has been adopted, it will be done quickly with the implementing decrees, but above all that, beyond those allocated, there will be all the resources necessary to guarantee a right that is actually sacrosanct and is enshrined in the Constitution. For too many years, people with hearing disabilities have been denied full citizenship rights. With this measure, which the rapporteur has described very well, the free choice by the family is finally reaffirmed. It is a choice of civilization and I hope that in the coming months Italy will no longer be Europe's taillight. We owe it to all those who live this state of great difficulty and great discomfort. Of course, the treatment comes first and great results have been obtained in the field of medicine; I myself have been able to verify them and for this reason we must continue to invest in research. Today, however, we take an important first step, which responds to a battle of civilizations that thousands of people and families have been carrying on for years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u22	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my sincere thanks to my fellow Members, particularly to the rapporteur who was able in the Commission to make a happy synthesis of the various draft laws, all of which are full of inspiration. It seems to me that this text has all the features of a happy synthesis, because on these issues for too many years (perhaps forty or fifty) in Italy we have had strong misunderstandings, fences, ideologies and, sometimes, even iconoclast furies. In fact, I know that in many special schools, in the sixties and seventies, the instruments invented by many specialized teachers were taken and put in the cellar, if not even destroyed, as if there were the need to overcome a specialization that knew too many times of segregation. The understandable desire for the inclusion of deaf and dumb children determined - I think I am not mistaken - in many cases even errors and dramas. Having had the fortune to be city councilman (now several years ago) to attend the community of the deaf of Turin and knowing many associative realities, including in particular the National Board of deaf people, I was always surprised to meet so many people over the years who, having attended these specialized schools, which in the meantime had been closed, were all able to speak and in many cases also to understand what we represented them, although being fully and totally deaf. In the same way, it surprised, not pleasantly, to see so many young or middle-aged people, after the closure of those schools, not being able to speak and speak only - and it is still beautiful - with the language of signs. This has always upset me, because, like many others and like Mrs Dirindin, I have always fought the institutionalization and segregation of people with some form of difficulty or handicap. However, the issue went and should be addressed beyond the ideological fences that have characterized the debate in recent years and that is why I think it is very happy the synthesis that was made by the rapporteur and by those who collaborated with him, because in reality there is no alternative between the desire for inclusion in normality and the need for specialized interventions. It is therefore very good what is said in many cases: insertion into normal environments; implants when they are needed; prevention; technological tools; neonatal screening; early diagnosis. This is absolutely essential. Clearly, we cannot think that the community of deaf people should be put in a fence and only sign language should be taught: those who think this evidently - but no one thinks it - can only err. But it is equally necessary to establish the freedom of choice between the different teaching methods, while ensuring, much better than has been done so far, also the right to be able to place your child in a context of normality, with specialized teachers of support, knowing that however it is very difficult that the only support activity in a context of normality can allow the child and the boy to acquire the ability to speak and understand. The mixed classes and every experimentation that can promote different forms of teaching are also good, but also - I stress - the promotion of sign language and its diffusion in different forms: tactile, technological, subtitling, and so on. The bill at our examination really surpasses those fences and absurd antinomies that we have seen for too many years fighting in the name of the common defense and promotion of children, children and the entire community of the deaf. Now we have to look ahead and I believe that this measure is taking a very decisive step. I hope that Parliament will be able to approve it quickly with the few and necessary changes. We must be proud of the path made so far, troubled and certainly fought, because the Italian people have always taken this theme to heart and has always been concerned to free the children and all the deaf people from their condition of difficulty. Today we can, contributing to the approval of this bill, perpetuate this Italian tradition and pride, albeit with delay, to really promote the lives of people and deaf communities. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u24	Mr President, congratulations and satisfaction on the fact that this bill finally arrives in the Chamber and on the correct emphasis that the rapporteur has put in his illustration of the article, I join with his appreciation for the return on the ground in the speech by Senator Malan. He intelligently drew the House to the more concrete aspects of a life that sometimes, on the merits of the disability of the deaf, deaf or other people with hearing disabilities, crosses experiences of a personal nature: family, friends, boys and children that we have had the opportunity to know since the earliest age struggling with such deficits. The bill surely meets objectives of inclusion, socialization and respect for individual rights, as well as of mitigation of diversity. These are the cornerstones of the bill that we are about to vote on. I therefore believe that the satisfaction expressed in the interventions so far since then is justified in knowing that the impact, from now on, of the law on Italian society, particularly on that most unfortunate part of the Italian population, as represented by the people with this handicap, will be strong. With the provisions for the social inclusion of deaf people, an important step is taken to achieve an ever greater social inclusion of that world made up of people who need to see their own sphere of rights and therefore of active participation enlarged. Think of what is already happening in various areas of civil life where the correct understanding between interlocutors is of legal importance, for example in the expression of informed consent where in the 1998 guidelines for genetic testing of the Committee on Biosafety and Biotechnology it was already stated that: "The information provided before the test should offer the potential user the opportunity to understand what is communicated to him and to express their own assessments and concerns regarding the various aspects of the test (...). In the case of deaf persons, an interpreter of sign language must be present at the interview, and it is also useful to use written or visual materials. This provision will be useful for the handling of any other act, whether of a public or private nature for which the law has provided that the contracting party, mute or deaf-mute, is assisted by an interpreter of trust able to communicate with him through the language of the signs or conventional means, appointed according to law, to read the act and declare it in conformity with his will, through the interpreter. This law will be useful, of course, also to RAI because of course it facilitates the intention to extend the possibilities of application of sign language to a greater number of broadcasts in addition to the news. In conclusion, Mr President, on behalf of the LAG Group - Directorate-General for Italy, I hope that the text will also be adopted because I think it is important to apply, then, to another objective that is to make the language of signs universal, otherwise we will end up creating a series of small linguistic republics, of language enclaves. The new frontier, in fact, is to make this language as universal as possible, so that it overcomes national barriers and borders. I also believe that it is necessary for the Government to proceed immediately to the implementing decrees and, of course, to provide the resources necessary for the law to become the heritage of all the sector that today looks forward to its approval. [[Applause from Senators Favero and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u25	Senator De Poli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend special thanks to the rapporteur and to the Commission as a whole for the work they have done. I remember presenting the first legislative proposal in this area at the beginning of this parliamentary term; I had also presented it in the parliamentary term before the House, but we had not succeeded in achieving today's objective, which I believe is important to bring about normality and to break down barriers within our society. However, this is a small, fundamental and important step, at least as far as I am concerned, but I think it is the same for the whole of this House. Article 3 of our Constitution proclaims equal social dignity and equality for all citizens. Today Italy, in this branch of Parliament, intends to cross a goal that can certainly be defined historical, adapting to the rest of Europe with the recognition of the Italian language of signs for the protection and promotion of the rights of deaf people. As I said, Italy adapts to Europe, where the LIS has been recognised at the highest level by two European Parliament resolutions, adopted on 17 June 1988 and 18 November 1998, in addition to the UNESCO Resolution of June 1994. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about deaf people and, more generally, people with disabilities, it is precisely in order to apply the principle set out in Article 3 of the Constitution in practice in our legislation that it becomes essential to overcome the barriers, at all levels, not only physical ones, but also and above all social, cultural and, in this case, also linguistic ones. This is the battle that, for years, sees us engaged, together with the world of the associationism of the deaf, for the recognition of the LIS. It is a tool that allows, in the first place, deaf children to have full cognitive development within their own community. LIS is a real language with its own specific syntactic and lexical morphology and it is a language that can be acquired by deaf children with the same stages of spoken language, to which we are accustomed. Once sign language is recognized, then, access to education through this language must be ensured. You understand, therefore, how important it is today to reach this goal, which has been called upon several times by Europe, which has invited all the Member States and, therefore, also Italy to legally accept the sign language. In recent years, we have seen many associations and groups that have led us on this path. So even more I would like to thank the world of associationism that believed us, fought us and made us be here, today, with them to achieve this goal. Up to now, despite the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of 2006 - we are talking about people with disabilities and nothing else - ratified by the Italian Government with Law No 18 of 2009 to expressly protect the specificity of deaf people, in Europe only Italy and Luxembourg did not proceed to the recognition of LIS. This recognition is a great sign of civilization; it is an initiative without political flags because it has people's interests at heart. In fact, these works have no colors of belonging, but values of belonging. With the recognition of the LIS, the barriers of communication can be broken down, fostering the integration between the deaf and the hearing world. I remember one of the many projects that over the years has been done and that has failed, compared to the world of the deaf: I am referring to the bridge project, which allowed us to connect the hearing world to the deaf one, an aspect of fundamental importance today. We guarantee the right for every deaf person to choose how to communicate and integrate into society, we really guarantee access to education, culture, communication, information, social life as well as work. Thus we will break down a wall that today divides our society and, on the contrary, we will build a bridge towards equality to ensure the equal social dignity and equality of all citizens. Perhaps this law will not be able to give all the useful and necessary answers; perhaps it is not correct to speak of a linguistic minority; certainly there are things to be improved even within this Assembly, but we achieve a fundamental objective: we formally recognize, even in Italy, the LIS. I believe that this is a measure that we cannot afford today not to vote and not to have this House vote. For this, I thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u27	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u28	Mr President, I must confess that it is with some modesty, if I am not embarrassed, that I take the floor on this subject, thanking the rapporteur for his efforts to find solutions to very complex problems. Pudour and embarrassment in reason from the fact that for me the deepening of this theme began twenty-five years ago, in the corridor of one of the most famous Italian nosocomi when, coming out of the room for the potential evoked, a young doctor, perhaps with excessive haste, in turn to hide a great shame and great pain, addressing my wife and me said: "Are you the parents of number six?" - meaning the sixth person that was being monitored that morning - "Your daughter is deaf." I am saying this because I believe that the solicitation from Mr Dirindin, who has unequivocally asked for a distinction between the state's having rights ordained to a principle that is recognized in the person as such and not in the person because it is attributed a deprivation of being, that is, a lack, a problem, a principle also reaffirmed in Mr Lepri's intervention, must be the element really direct because we can draw up a good law. The rapporteur, Mr Russo, intended to say very concretely that the draft law under consideration does not simply fill a gap in relation to something that has not been done in previous years and that we find it easy and excellent to do in this situation, but above all it is proposed as a legal platform for the citizenship rights of all deaf people, of all people with hearing disabilities. For it to be so, then, if it is a framework law, it must have a name that takes into account not only the problems of everyone, but also what they all imagine as the most convenient, most useful and most reasonable approach to solving problems. I want to be very specific: the rapporteur, Mr Russo, said that we are overcoming a problem and a delay; in doing so he read his speech using a tablet and I even use a smartphone. In other words, we do something that enhances technological tools and brings us further forward in time, because with the help of technology we find adequate answers to problems that have come from a long time ago and that have so much marked in pain the duties and rights of a generation. This technological revolution has also marked the world of deafness and hearing disability and must be taken into account by the State, precisely because the State is the guarantor and not the owner of people's lives. It is precisely in order to be a guaranteeing State that it strives to understand the approach of those many who today in the debate must be able to see their voice recognized. A group of underage children, who still go to school and who have the problem of deafness, to whom they intended to respond, for a choice clearly shared with their parents, through the instruments of oralism and cochlear implant, writes the following: Mr President, Minister for Education, Minister for Health, Minister for Culture, what follows is a request from the deaf Italians who want to speak their language, your language, or Italian and do not share some key passages of the law currently under discussion in Parliament about the recognition of the Italian sign language. I have not read this incipit in order to create an element of division but because, if the bill in question wants to have the ambition described by my colleague Russo, it must be able to be a useful platform from a legal point of view in the interest of the rights of all. I therefore ask Mr Russo very simply: why do we not give this instrument the designation of the framework law for the recognition and promotion of the rights of citizens of those who have hearing disabilities? If we do not do this, it is not that we simply will not make a semantic adjustment to meet the other deaf, but we will forbid ourselves to understand that evil is deprivation of being. Which of us would think to find an answer to the problem of those who lack one or two legs inciting them not to do prosthetics? And then, precisely because we must recognize that on the subject of deafness there is a problem of cultures that compose themselves and can compose themselves differently, we cannot, as legislators and as a state, fail to make our concrete concern and our real capacity to respond to a need without distorting the fundamental meaning of what Mrs Dirindin said: namely, that people help themselves as people, that people have and mature rights as such and that the recognition of the rights of the person precedes and never precludes the possibility of meeting specific requests and specific possible needs. Only this I ask and ask, I repeat again, with modesty and embarrassment, because I do not want any of the moments lived in solitude, fatigue and fragility in these twenty-five years can represent the way in which I try to define and close the instances and problems and the passionate way with which those who have seen it differently from me have tried to be close to the right of their children. I ask the rapporteur and the political forces, especially because that new perspective, the way in which we want to say that Italy, which was behind on this point, will now be able to move forward, must be able to read exactly what has happened in all these years. It was a very concrete experience for me. Until a few years ago, as many colleagues will remember, the experience of the cochlear implant was precluded by the simplest of problems: in the national health pronctuary that passage was indicated as cosmetic surgery. It took a minister of that part of the line-up, Umberto Veronesi, who in a few minutes, placing the problem with a lot of pragmatism, reasonableness and simplicity solved it by opening new perspectives in the field of rights to many deaf Italians. Precisely because the trend, in perspective, will increasingly go in the direction of those who face and resolve these problems through precise choices, I hope that this can be taken into account and above all shared by Parliament. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, PD and Art.1-MDP.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u29	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u30	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is in great delay compared to other European countries - which unfortunately is not surprising - in regulating the sign language in a normative way. Only Luxembourg joins us in this umpteenth negative record, while Austria, Finland and Portugal have even entered the sign language into the Constitution. Think how far ahead they are! The approval of the bill under consideration is more urgent than ever, since the subjects suffering from problems and discomforts closely linked to the sight and hearing are in our country about 189,000, since moreover, according to ISTAT, it is constantly growing. Of these, 64.8 percent are women and even 87.9 percent are over sixty - five years old. If we move the focus on minors, the situation requires more in-depth study, since on a disabled population of 234,788 children, also in constant growth, there are even 9,885 children and children with sensory disabilities related to vision or hearing, provided that 38.1 percent of the cases are associated with intellectual disabilities, 37 percent with motor disabilities and 20 percent with developmental and language disorders, while 40 percent of children, especially those with visual disabilities, have serious learning problems. The text we are discussing is intended to introduce the teaching of LIS in primary and secondary schools of first degree and in universities; to provide for the use of new technologies for subtitling in television broadcasts; to include diagnostic interventions for early detection of hearing and visual disabilities among minors within the essential levels of performance, in order to be able to perfectly calibrate the necessary prosthetic and speech pedictic interventions; to promote scientific and technological research in order to promote the increased use of visual and acoustic technologies in communication and for access to any type of information, especially in the academic and university fields, thus guaranteeing children and deaf children the right to full cognitive development, both as individuals and as subjects belonging to a wider community. That is what the bill provides for in our examination. A goal, the approval of this act, to which, however, is to counter the serious economic crisis of some of the state institutions for deaf people present on the national territory. I quote, among all, that of the State Institute for the Deaf of Rome, which risks the imminent closure if we do not proceed to the recovery of the funds never paid to the institute in the previous years, quantified in about 19 million euros, and to the allocation of an annual economic contribution waiting for the rapid completion of its transformation into a national institution. With this closure would be at risk many of the activities of assistance and support, but also of training, guaranteed by the institute in recent years, moreover recalled in the bill under consideration: from the professional updating of LIS operators to the research activity in the context of the problems of deaf people, passing through the support to schools and the training of teachers. Here, too, everyone's commitment is needed to ensure that the norms of civilization contained in this provision do not remain a dead letter. The school has a key role to play on these issues. I would like to focus on Article 5 of the draft law, which deals with school inclusion, which gives the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) the task of ensuring that deaf, deaf or hearing disabled students in general, learn LIS and tactile LIS or any other effective form of communication for their inclusion. In addition, again in the same article, MIUR is recognized the prerogative to define the training requirements that teachers must possess that will deal with the teaching of the LIS and the tactile LIS or the support to deaf children or with hearing only disabilities, both in the performance of school activities and in those extra-schools. [[Senator Donno's microphone light starts flashing.]] Mr President, I would ask you to extend the time allowed for my speech, as the Group has sufficient minutes. These regulatory forecasts should already be applied in a civil country, but the current situation is different, in many territorial realities even dramatic, with many supporting chairs that are still vacant, with the right to study, enshrined in Article 34 of our Constitution, which is continually being violated - which you constantly violate! - and with families who are lost, almost abandoned, unable to deal with such situations, also due to the absence within the schools of a professional reference figure, which acts as a link with the minor and allows the latter to overcome brilliantly the hardships and difficulties that characterize and influence the various phases of his growth path. On this last aspect it is acceptable the forecast contained in paragraph 2 of Article 3 of the bill, according to which "La Repubblica promotes (...) information and pedagogical and psychological support for their families, to be activated at the same time as the communication of the diagnosis of deafness or deafness" because it fits in the wake of a staff and constant confrontation with scholars and experts in the field on the topic of the restoration of the professional figure of the pedagogist within the schools of every order and grade, especially for the prevention of critical situations and discomforts lived by children and young people, also attributable to relational, emotional and affective aspects. I hope that our commitment will not be exhausted here, but above all I hope that your commitment will not be the usual electoral march and that the process of approving the bill will speed up in the House of Deputies. As I see it, however, there is already a very clear slowdown this morning and I hope that it is not just due to bureaucratic aspects. On the other hand, I hope that action will be taken as soon as possible and that the measure will be brought to an end, both in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies. People wait, the government has to do its part, but it really has to do it, and it doesn't just have to be aimed at the elections that will take place next 11 June. Get a move on and really do something for the citizens, not just for the direct interest of someone, who arrives only and exclusively in your pockets or of your multinational charities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u31	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the draft law on the recognition of the Italian sign language before the House today is the result of a long work carried out by the rapporteur Francesco Russo and his colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whom I thank for their work, for their attention and sensitivity on this subject. It is a work that our Parliament started years ago, exactly in 2009, with the ratification, through Law No 18 of 3 March 2009, of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, approved in New York in 2006. It provides for facilitating the learning of sign language and the promotion of the linguistic identity of the deaf community; to ensure that blind, deaf or deaf people, and in particular minors, receive education in the languages, methods and means of communication most appropriate for each and in environments that optimize school progress and socialization. After several years of waiting, the contents of these forecasts finally take shape in the text that we are examining today, in a long and tiring process. As also mentioned by Senator De Poli and the rapporteur, the iter started from the examination of five draft laws, then merged into a single text, which had as its main objective to reach the recognition of the Italian sign language (LIS) and to facilitate its use in almost all areas, from school to university, from the mass media to the world of work, from the courts to health structures. Among them, there is also that at my first signature, signed by many colleagues, the Senate Act No. 1019, presented in August 2013, which included, among other things, the recognition of LIS in order to allow and facilitate its use in judicial, civil and criminal proceedings, and in the relations of citizens with public administrations and local authorities. The examination in the Commission lasted over two years and was characterised by the hearing of experts, associations, interpreters and other relevant stakeholders who gave their views and comments in order to improve and enrich the text presented by the rapporteur. The aim of this measure is to recognise and guarantee the rights of deaf people, with hearing disabilities in general and deafening, promoting the removal of barriers to understanding and communication that limit the full development of the person and the effective participation in collective life. We know, because it has been recalled by the recent study of the ISTAT promoted by the League of the Golden Wire and recently presented, that in Italy the deaf people are 189,000. They are in a situation of grave loneliness and often of complete dependence on others and of these 108,000 are practically confined to the home, not being able to provide for themselves, also because they have other disabilities. We also know that about 20,000 people combine all three levels of difficulty: confinement, difficulty of movement and in the simplest everyday functions and this becomes a state of absolute dependence from the outside and a great weight also for families. We do not want people with deafness and deafness, but we do know that there are and we do not want these numbers to increase. To limit these numbers and to give dignity to these people, to make sure that there are no 108,000 confined, but that through prevention and through the use of the LIS language these become few because they will be autonomous. This is the objective of the measure: the autonomy and rights of all. Precisely in order to recognize their constitutional rights, in accordance with Article 1 of the measure, the Republic protects, supports and promotes all instruments aimed at the prevention and care of deafness and deafness, as well as technological instruments for overcoming or reducing the conditions of disadvantage. Without prejudice to the teaching of the Italian language spoken and written, it recognizes, promotes and protects the Italian sign language, with a view to bilingualism between the Italian language spoken and written and the LIS. There are two pillars on which this measure is based. First of all, prevention, as has been repeated, early identification of deafness and deafness, preventive pregnancy investigations, neonatal screening, paediatric audiological diagnosis and, more generally, any early enabling and rehabilitation diagnostics, because only through early diagnosis do we have the opportunity to intervene promptly through the prostheses. It should be remembered that the measures provided for in this article apply throughout the national territory - well our rapporteur said - as they are considered as essential levels of performance under the Constitution. With the second pillar it is specified that the recognition of sign language is realized in the perspective of bilingualism, giving the families the possibility to use also - and I emphasize - this instrument for their son suffering from hypoacusia or deafness. It is a possibility, a faculty, but certainly not an obligation: those who prefer the oralist approach will never - indeed never - be obliged to learn sign language and less will be forced to use it in school or in other social contexts. Freedom of choice is a cornerstone and a right not to be discriminated against, and it is fundamental in this bill (Article 2). However, when a family decides to use the sign language, thanks to this rule of Italian law, it is guaranteed to teach this language in the educational and educational paths, through the presence at school of the communication assistant, the interpreter as well as the teacher of support. It guarantees, therefore, access to educational models on free choice. With this in mind, the recognition of the LIS becomes an instrument that the law provides for the protection of the rights of deaf people. With regard to school inclusion, the activation of mixed classes of deaf and deaf students is promoted with a bilingual curriculum. We have a virtuous example, that of the school of Cossato, where, since 1994, there is a project born as an experimental that, however, lasts for twenty-three years: there, from the school of childhood to the secondary of first degree, through the primary, a group of deaf pupils is formed that acquires LIS as a natural language, together with deaf pupils who use LIS as a second language as early as possible. 11:38 a.m. (Favero followed). The experience gained from this project shows how the language intervention on deaf children, which then continues in high schools, is effective when started when they are young, because bilingualism favors the inclusion of deaf pupils who, communicating in two different languages, have the possibility of a complete exchange of knowledge. We also have checks on this, the monitoring carried out by CNR, the collaboration with the University of Milan-Bicocca and with Ca' Foscari, projects with numerous national and international conferences to which the school has participated, with foreign universities who come to study this model. I also give you numbers: different data tell us that four young people have already graduated, one has to discuss the thesis shortly, three are enrolled in the university, seven have finished high school studies, six are attending high school with great success. They're very relevant results. The MIUR is then called upon to define, after hearing a table of experts, the national standards of training paths for access to these professionalisms that serve within the above mentioned routes. I would like to highlight an agenda, which I have tabled for the debate in this House, in order to ask for the revision of the criteria laid down in Law No 107 of 2010 for the recognition of deafness, guaranteeing full rights to deaf people, as well as access to the specific legislative provisions laid down. The current definition of deafness, in fact, has resulted in the formal exclusion of a considerable number of people (I remembered 189,000) who, while presenting at the same time a visual and auditory disability, have lost their hearing after the completion of the twelfth year of age. It is not, therefore, to the effects of law, considered as blind deaf; this condition has, in fact, limited the scope of operation and then asks for the commitment to convene a technical table with the contribution of all the institutional actors involved and of the most representative associations. I conclude by saying once again that the lives of deaf, blind and hearing impaired people are more or less serious every day with the invisible barriers of communication and relationship. In the unified text we take into account all the different experiences of life, family choices and the complexity of deafness, affirming first and foremost the principle of freedom of choice, the principle of being within an educational community, which cares for people, but above all takes care of the path of growth of our children and our pupils. deaf people and their families have the right to choose the mode of communication and access to the information they prefer, in full respect of their autonomy and personal integrity. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Russian Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u33	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u36	Mr Russo, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate this morning which has been full of different nuances brought by each of us in this House; a debate which, as I said in my report, is alive, sometimes even too lively. I really believe that we have taken a further step towards the adoption of this measure. We still have some problems with the fact that some technical reports by the Ministries do not enable the 5th Commission to give an opinion and then move to the voting stage. I would ask, then, if the Presidency would allow me, also having the pleasure of gathering the ideas and many ideas that have emerged from today's debate, to make my reply at next Tuesday's sitting. In the meantime, I would like to be able to table a number of further amendments, which gather the suggestions that have emerged in today's debate, particularly those of Senator Dirindin and Senator Mauro, but not only, and that the time limits for the submission of any sub-amendments have reopened so that we can discuss them in this House at Tuesday's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u37	The Presidency takes note of the rapporteur's submission of new amendments. The amendments will be sent to the Groups immediately. The deadline for submitting any sub-amendments is set for 10 a.m. tomorrow, Friday 19 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u40	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, next Monday, for ten days, the World Health Assembly, the decision-making body of the World Health Organisation (WHO), will meet in Geneva. I would remind my colleagues that from 2009 to 2016, for eight years, Taiwan was invited to this Annual Assembly as an observer and participated in it by making its own health and scientific contribution, including in the field of international cooperation, to prevent and combat diseases and epidemics. To date, we know that 194 States will participate in this Assembly, but Taiwan has not been invited to the annual session due to political pressure from the Chinese Government. I would like to stress that this is a real scandal, an act of political ostracism, a situation that we denounce contrary to the spirit and purpose of the World Health Assembly and the World Health Organization which, in their constituent act, in their statutes, establish to operate outside and above all racial, religious, political and economic motivations, because their only objective is to protect the health of mankind. Viruses, diseases and epidemics do not end with national borders, because they do not know regimes of any political color. If Taiwan has participated in the Assembly for eight years as an observer, living without problems with the Chinese presence, while today the Government of Beijing claims its exclusion, it is clear to us the political motivation for this exclusion against a Government, that of Taiwan, which I remember being democratically elected last year. It is also a shame that the World Health Assembly lends itself to this Chinese diktat, betrays its nature and serves the Chinese communists. For this reason, with other colleagues from the Northern League, we have today tabled the parliamentary question 4-07541 addressed to the Foreign Minister Alfano and the Minister of Health Lorenzin to ask what initiatives the Government intends to take to defend the apoliticality of the World Health Assembly and, therefore, of the World Health Organization and to do everything to ensure that Taiwan can once again be invited to the Assembly as an external observer. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u43	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, almost two weeks after the very serious burning of the Eco X plant in Pomezia, the flames continue to flare up, as a newspaper reports this morning. The question is mandatory: but what waste contained the Pomezia Eco X if, thirteen days later, they still burn or even rekindle? We want to know because citizens are entitled to it. We supported it at the event held on 11 May in Pomezia as the Italian Left and in our question 3-03730 to the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Environment to ask for clarity and urgent interventions of reclamation and prevention. It could have been predicted and avoided. We therefore ask the Government why, at the exposition presented in November 2016 by the inhabitants of the Castagnetta Cinque Poderi area, it did not follow the intervention of any institution and/or authority responsible for environmental controls. We would also like to know whether the activity of the Eco X company was regularly authorised at the time of the accident; what investigations have been arranged on the effects on the soil of pollutants, with particular reference to the agricultural and zootechnical productions present in the vast area affected by the toxic cloud. Above all, we call for attention to be paid to the fact that citizens, despite the reassurances from the institutions, continue to face strong physical ills. Although the Minister of Health ruled out asbestos, the Velletri Prosecutor's Office opened an investigation to prove otherwise. The Bureau of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle has decided on the schedule of the first hearing of deepening: next May 24 will be heard the director of the ARPA Lazio, Marco Lupo, and the prosecutor of the Republic of Velletri, Francesco Prete. It is improcrastinable, however, to prepare, of understanding with the Lazio Region, an urgent intervention of reclamation on the whole area, also in order to prevent the eventual infiltration to the ground and in the aquifers of ulterior polluting loads. Is it possible that, if it is true what is reported by the chief prosecutor of Velletri in press conference, in 2010 was given the authorization to operate by the Region to an installation without even the fire certification? The mayor of Pomezia, during a hearing in the Environment Commission at the Senate, said that in 2015 the Lazio Region granted an authorisation to increase the amount of non-dangerous but in any case flammable waste to be treated in the plant. Has anyone been worried that that plant could operate safely? What kind of garbage are we talking about if - I repeat - they come back to burn just a step away from the schools of Pomezia? Finally, attention should be paid to the increasingly widespread and frequent phenomenon of fires at plants of this type on the south coast of Rome, because the waste business is the subject of interest and business by Mafia criminal organizations. In conclusion, I would like to make a request to the Minister for the Interior. If it has not been done previously, an accurate check of the company structure and the necessary certifications is initiated. There is a vast area and a huge human community that demand the right to health and absolute transparency in the acts and information provided. We need public controls at 360 degrees. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u46	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, today in the newspapers there are statements by the Secretary of the Democratic Party, Matteo Renzi, who declares, without too many words, that democracy is under attack. He refers both to the interceptions of conversations between himself and his father and those concerning the Boschi case. Now, I must sincerely denounce a shameful limitation of press freedom, in a nation that already has a law on public service governance that envy us all the dictatorships of the world, because it is in the hands of the Government the choice of the director and of all the directors of the various news ("PD1," "PD2", "PD3", "RainewsPD24"). This, however, is an attack that is taking place now and, as Orfini states, there is something about the functioning of Italian democracy and that should alarm everyone. And in fact they were alarmed years ago: I remember that for the case of Ligresti-Cancellieri immediately asked for the resignation of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, because she had made herself available. I also remember the position of Senator Napolitano, who in fact immediately came to his rescue, saying that that of the intercepts was an old question, probably referring to the intercepts of Mancino. I also recall the statements of the current Prime Minister Gentiloni, at the time Minister of Communication, on the D'Addario case, in which he said that the interceptions restored the border between reality of the facts and pitiful lies and that instead of attacking the press, who did his job (who knows, then did and now no longer, because maybe it was that of De Benedetti, Caltagirone and your friends), at Palazzo Grazioli they should have made clarity in front of the country. Here, if we remove the reference to Palazzo Grazioli and put Rignano on the Arno, perhaps we understand at what point, where or when the PD has lost any decency in keeping the information free in this country, without ever making, among other things, a law on conflict of interest. We will discuss, next Wednesday, with the entire RAI management on the shameful information that continues to be on television by the public service and the statements of these gentlemen, that we read today in "The Daily Fact," one of the few free newspapers that does not belong to you and that for this reason you attack daily, not only journalists, but also the prosecutor. Worse than the worst Berlusconi. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u47	I would remind you that at 2 p.m. Parliament meets in joint session for the election of a constitutional judge.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-826.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.54 p.m.
