ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1324-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u5	Mr President, there is no doubt that the provision that the Senate is considering at second reading is very important, because it concerns in particular the delegation to the Government for clinical trials of medicinal products and for the reorganization of the health professions and for the health management of the Ministry of Health. The measure had already been the subject of several bills presented by some colleagues and was then made by the Government with the bill that we are discussing. I acknowledge the Senate's Health Commission, which began in 2014, which found its conclusion with the adoption of the text on 24 May 2016, following an extremely thorough work and, above all, the research by all the political forces present in the Commission of a balance that met the expectations of thousands of people in relation to the regulation of health professions and, in particular, the organisation of professional bodies. On these issues the Commission, after extensive and thorough discussion, had found a balance, so much so that the Forza Italia Group voted in favour of the measure, as well as voted in favour on the occasion of the approval in the Senate of the Republic in May 2016. Subsequently the measure was sent to the House, where quite inexplicably, after the hard work done by the Senate, it lay down essentially for about a year and a half, until October 2017. The problem is that the House's Committee on Social Affairs, rather than simply trying to find additional points of balance on issues that I think could be settled, did not actually use the method of sharing and seeking balance and, especially in some parts of the measure, made a change in the measure itself, especially on chapters IV and VI concerning professional orders. In particular, according to our opinion, there is a change in the substance of the matter, taking away autonomy with regard to the organization of professional orders. This is borne out by the fact that, when the measure returned to the Senate, in the Health Commission we asked for hearings to know, directly from the interested parties, their opinion on the text, which had been shared by the same on the occasion of the approval of the Senate, but which at the level of the Ministry had not, on the contrary, had their approval, also following meetings that were made between the federation of orders of doctors, pharmacists and veterinarians. They explained to us, during these hearings, that their attitude had completely changed and their absolute opposition to the substance of the matter. These are the reasons why the Group of Forza Italia shares for the part that it had already shared, but absolute opposition to what the House did, especially for Articles 4 and 6, on the orders and rationalization of the health professions, because, in fact, the system has complicated. We would like to see a change in the debate we will have on the amendments, but we are aware that it is now customary, after having kept the law a year and a half in the House, to pass it on to the Senate and, given the expiry of this parliamentary term, to say: take or leave. We have considerable doubts about this measure, also given that our parliamentary group in the House voted against the measure for the reasons I have just outlined. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u6	Senator Silvestro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us today, which is being presented and debated in this House, contains rules relating to different thematic areas but linked and linked by a common red thread. Several objectives: to reform the legislation on clinical trials, to coordinate the territorial ethics committees for trials on medicinal products and medical devices, to apply and disseminate gender medicine in the National Health Service, to reorder and innovate the rules of order that cover all the current health professions, the oldest and with an important history behind and the youngest ones that have carried out a significant and objective professionalization through a now more than twenty-year academic training. A path, that of the most recent health professions, even if more than twenty years old, that will finally find a formal and legally certain recognition through a reorder that involves all the health professions finally overcoming some criticalities, some voids, that the current laws cannot fill and that, without the intervention of this bill, could not have been overcome. The bill redefines the penalties for the abuse of a health profession in order to protect and protect citizens from lestophants, magicians and hagglers; it indicates a clear path as regards the specialized medical training and training of non-EU doctors; it reports some provisions for the extraordinary competition for the assignment of pharmaceutical offices and regulates the health management of the Ministry of Health. A bill, therefore, important and complex that I will comment on for a very long-awaited part: the one that deals with the subject of the reorganization of the health professions. At this moment, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of professionals are watching and listening to us, waiting for the final vote that will set a very long-awaited historic milestone and that they would like, they would like bipartisan. After a long period of time and a more than two-year commitment of the two Chambers, on the one hand, the reorganization and the novelation of the norms that concern the models and structures of evaluation, validation and representation of the health professions, on the other hand, to give equal recognition and dignity also to numerous health professions already regulated with specific profiles outlined and formalized with specific decrees from the Ministry of Health and that, for over twenty years, as I have already said, are formed in universities through three-year, five-year and master's degree courses of first and second level. Health professions, among which, some, still inopportunely maintained without their own professional albums or with professional albums inserted in the structure no longer adequate of "college" rather than "order." The reordering and reporting of the norms inherent to the health professions and to the models and structures of their validation, evaluation and representation, can completely and finally be defined as a further step forward not so much and not only for the more than one million health professionals operating in our country, but for the Italian and European citizens who benefit from their professional performance and their charitable commitment. The long-awaited ordinal reform in health care finally leaves behind a winding and bumpy path made of stop and go, hopes and bitter disappointments, made even more incomprehensible for the acclaimed evidence of how much the anticipated and current ordering plant needed a broad redefinition in the contents that fill the qualified container that involves health professionals, in the forms of participation in the vote for the renewal of professional representation, in the models of internal governance, both at local and regional level as well as national, in the relations with the different institutions and with their professionals, in the contacts and network of relations with the community and with the individual citizens who become actors in the management, through mediation, of the eventual and hopefully rare litigation. I understand that the time available to me is short, so I will hand over the text of my speech, but I would like to conclude with a wish for a firm approval of the draft law under consideration and at the same time thank, for the great and appreciated availability, the Federation of Medical Radiology Health Technicians which has welcomed in establishing the order of medical radiology health technicians and the technical-health professions of rehabilitation the health professions at the time without register, demonstrating the ability to make a choice that has subordinated the particular interest to the general one. Finally, let me give a virtual hug to the many women and men of the health professions all and also to the many nurses who, through their colleges and their - and also mine - National Federation of Professional Nurses Colleges, Healthcare Assistants, Child Care Nurses (IPASVI), have supported this path, have supported me and the work of the 12th The Senate Commission, which joins me with an intense civic and professional sharing. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u8	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u9	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u10	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u11	Mr President, I also give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u12	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that Amendment 4200 is inadmissible because it is not directly related to the changes introduced by the House of Deputies to the measure. In accordance with Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, it also states that the proposal 15.0.200 concerning the age of the ordinary professors is not available, as it is unrelated to the object of the draft law which contains provisions in the field of health. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 10.05 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.55 a.m. and resumed at 10.06 a.m.) Colleagues, let us resume with the vote on Rule 1. Senator Gaetti, did your request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot refer to all the articles of the measure? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, we are calling for all votes to be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 2, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u13	Mr President, I am opposed to the only amendment tabled in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u14	Senator De Biasi, if you wish, you can also bring forward your opinion on the amendments tabled to the other articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u15	De Biasi, rapporteur. The opinion is opposed to all the amendments, except on amendment 4.12, on which I call on the authors to withdraw and transform them into an agenda, which I call on the Government to accept. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do the authors agree to withdraw amendment 4.12 and turn it into an agenda? FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u16	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3 introduced by the House of Deputies. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The House of Deputies has deleted Article 2 of the text approved by the Senate. We now come to the examination of Article 4, corresponding to Article 3 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3 tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4,200 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4,201 tabled by Senator Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. TAVERNA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Floris, do you withdraw amendment 4.12?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u20	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Government has already expressed its support for the adoption of an agenda resulting from this amendment, which would avoid the mismatch between the election of orders and the operation of the draft law in question, since the law would come into operation at the end of January and in any case, in order to be implemented, it would need government measures of a regulatory nature for which it would go against the elections of the orders already carried out, with those that are being carried out and with the provisions of the bill. The Government, however, has given a favourable opinion, so I will hand over to the Presidency the text of the agenda for which I request a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u21	The text has already been received by the Presidency. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.12, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.16, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.18, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20, tabled by Senators Taverna and Gaetti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4, corresponding to Article 3 of the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 5, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Let us move on to Amendment 5,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,200, tabled by Senator Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5, which was introduced by the House of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which an amendment was subsequently withdrawn and an agenda on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u22	The opinion on the G6200 agenda is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u23	The Government supports the adoption of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u24	Since the vote is requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote on the G6 200 agenda, tabled by Senator Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6, which was introduced by the House of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7, which corresponds to Article 4 of the text approved by the Senate. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 7, corresponding to Article 4 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The House of Deputies has deleted Article 5 of the text approved by the Senate. Articles 8, 9 and 10 are identical to Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11, which was introduced by the House of Deputies. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11, which was introduced by the House of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, which corresponds to Article 9 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled which have subsequently been withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 12. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 12, corresponding to Article 9 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Article 13 is identical to Article 10 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14, which corresponds to Article 11 of the text approved by the Senate. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 14, corresponding to Article 11 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, which corresponds to Article 12 of the text approved by the Senate, on which the amendment was subsequently withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 15. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 15, corresponding to Article 12 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 15.0.200 is unacceptable. The House of Deputies has deleted Article 13 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which an amendment was subsequently withdrawn and agendas on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u25	I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G16,200, G16,201, G16,202, G16,203 and G16,204. On the G16.205 agenda, the favourable opinion is subject to a rewording of the first line of the operative part as follows: To assess the possibility of adopting, within the limits of the financial resources available and in any case in favour of all the other professionalism provided for in article 8, paragraph 1 of Law n. 401 of 2000, the necessary initiatives. I am also in favour of the G16.206 and G16.207 agendas, although the latter has been overcome by an amendment that has been voted on in the House, but this is another branch of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u26	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u27	Senator Mandelli, do you accept the request for reformulation of the agenda G16.205? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u30	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, if Senator Mandelli grants me this, I would like to put my signature on all your agendas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mandelli agrees? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u31	A day of goodness: you can see that we are right under Christmas. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G16,200 agenda. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16,200, presented by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.201, presented by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.202, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.203, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.204, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.205 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.206, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.207, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16, introduced by the House of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 17 and 18 are identical to Articles 14 and 15 of the text approved by the Senate. Colleagues, your explanations of vote, if they are contained, will allow us to carry out everything that is on the agenda of our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u34	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I welcome your invitation and will be very brief. Finally, after a thousand and four hundred days, this bill finds its resolution in the Chamber. We will thus have more transparency in the professional order, with the inclusion of turnover and gender equality, as well as stricter penalties for the abuse of the health professions. We recognize two new professional orders, that of osteopaths and that of chiropractors, and then we will also have more protection for patients admitted to both public and private structures, introducing stricter penalties for crimes against the person. With my Group Italy of Values we will certainly vote yes to this bill and I believe that I have done my duty as legislator. However, I would like to remind you that the medical-patient relationship is not only made of standards, even if it is well written: at the basis of this we must always think that there are instead trust, empathy and, not least, taking care. I believe that we legislators will still have a lot to do on this. We have taken a few steps and I thank the entire Health Commission, which many times has also endured me, as well as supported me, but I believe it is essential to make it clear that we have brought almost a meter from the arrival many bills that went in this direction, to seek more empathy and more trust in the doctor-patient relationship. I have to say that there was only one flaw in this Commission: having approved the compulsory vaccination. I do not say this because I am against vaccines, but because I believe that imposing a health obligation in this way, without a real need, has created only the distrust of many patients towards doctors and above all the reduction of that empathy that I consider more a life choice than a legislative one. Thank you, however, all of you, reaffirming that the vote of Italy of the Values will be in favour. [[Applause from Senator Laniece. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u37	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak at the beginning of the explanations of vote. This bill was submitted to the Senate Health Commission on 21 February 2014, the date on which its iter began, including hearings, general discussion, amendments and approval. It was the subject of analysis at 53 meetings of that Commission: this measure, when it entered it, consisted of twenty-six articles; during the work sixteen were deleted, then four were added and a total of fourteen emerged. It was then approved by the Senate on 24 May 2016 (after two years and three months of study then) and returned from the Chamber on 25 October 2017, to be approved at second reading, without any possibility of amendment, although it has been extensively modified compared to the version released from the Senate. This bill, I would say, is a real train to which cars (i.e. articles) are detached at each stop and others are added. To make me understand better: in the Chamber they added article 2 on the reorganization of ethical committees, with the aim of identifying with certainty the territorial ethical committees, to which ethical committees with national significance have been flanked; an argument that is certainly acceptable and important but on which we in the Senate could not affect. They then added Article 3 on the application and dissemination of gender medicine to the National Health Service. They have also added Article 5, which establishes new socio-health professional figures; professional figures certainly necessary, but some profiles have two different cultural paths. In the context of the figure of the professional educator, for example, you can have two different university courses: the degree courses of the classes L-19 Education and Training Sciences and L/SNT2 of the health professions of rehabilitation. It would therefore be necessary to have an enabling and interfaculty degree course between the faculties of Training Sciences and the faculties of Medicine, in order to unify the two paths and not penalize anyone. They also added Article 6 which rewrites Article 5 of Law No 43 of 1 February 2006 which allowed the identification and now also the establishment of new health professions. Why wasn't it made work for everyone? Why create children and stepchildren, what is the need to establish certain (certainly legitimate) health professions such as the osteopath and the chiropractor and not others, such as the graduate in motor science? They then added Article 11, which amends the law of 8 March 2017, n. 24. Yes, dear citizens, you have understood well, you put hand, after nine months of approval, to the law on professional responsibility, and it is not the correction of a defect: you go to correct article 5, paragraph 3, article 9, paragraph 5, article 9, paragraph 6, article 13, paragraph 1, and is added a paragraph, the 7a, after paragraph 7 from Article 14. Fantastic, dear citizens! Did you see that by cutting the review? Do you think if you had bought a car and after nine months you were obliged to revise it completely, what would you think of the designers of that vehicle? They have also inserted a paragraph 2 in Article 15, which inserts a new article 39-b, with special provisions for non-EU doctors, in Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998. I really am very pleased that we can teach professionals for two years waiting for the requirements for the issue of the entry visa, but I can not fail to note however how many of our graduates leave Italy for lack of possibility of insertion. Perhaps a proper balance would be necessary. They then added Article 16, which provides for special competition for the allocation of pharmaceutical premises: an authentic interpretation. In summary, a provision of 18 articles, arrives at the Senate with 6 brand new articles plus other paragraphs here and there, which cannot be discussed because the provision is armored. However, the masterpiece remains in absolute Article 17, the mark of the Polverini amendment of 2013. I have already explained it yesterday in the general discussion and I do not take it back, but it is phenomenal, that an article rejected for three times, but stubbornly re-presented with an incredible tough face, in turn by the various PDL and "PD minus L" lines - I would say "who the hard wins" - is finally approved after four years from its debut. Article 1, which provides for the delegation to the Government for clinical trials, seems very weak: how to ensure the absence of conflict of interest - paragraph 2 (d) - and how to disseminate the positive and negative results of preclinical trials, as well as of all clinical trials, regardless of their outcome? Furthermore, the data included in the report on a clinical trial should not be considered as commercial information, even if of a confidential nature. It is these days the publication of books on the conflict of interests of public health representatives: do you say nothing? What credibility do you think you gain from citizens? You disorient them and then complain if they challenge you; it is a real shame. I finish my speech by commenting on Article 4, on the reorganization of the discipline of the health professions, an article establishing professions and professional orders with rigid organizational structure, wanted mostly by the management bodies that not by the base. The proven evidence of what I say is evident in the management of the so-called historical orders and colleges: the percentage of voters is often below 10% at the votes of the office renewals. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Perhaps you had to start from this analysis to try to understand what the base or professionals ask for and need. I am a member of the Order of Doctors and I do not feel the need or the need. Greater participation and accountability had to be sought, giving the right to count: if a vote does not reach the majority of those entitled, as in a referendum, the provincial order disappears and is absorbed by the regional order. Instead, the opposite has been done: the legal representative is given power, so much then the members pay, often to the gas barrel, precarious, overwhelmed, vexed and humiliated, to which it is believed that the establishment of an order will be the solution of their problems. I shall conclude, Mr President, by announcing, both for questions of method, as stated in the preamble, and of substance, as explained in the general discussion and in the conclusions, the contrary vote of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u40	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, with this bill we can say that the elephant did not give birth to a mouse but a schizophrenic hamster who spins the wheel hoping to find the right number: there is no coherence, there is no real innovation. It is a text that, from the first version, does not introduce an effective modernization of the ordering system. The bill Lorenzin, born in fact from the necessity of a modernization of the norms institute of the professional orders and colleges dating back more than sixty years ago, already from the first version appeared lacking of that innovative push able to affect the current order system in order to overcome those aspects no longer respond to the changed political, social and economic context in which the health professions operate. It is a regulatory framework that does not address the heart of the issues, but intervenes on specific points of the text of 1946 without proposing as a whole a truly new, modern and effective discipline. The text approved by the House is a rewriting of the text of 1946 that demolishes, in fact, the autonomy of order; a text that in some way is definitely negative on the autonomy of orders, which is also a characteristic requirement of these bodies and the specific functions that they carry out in relation to the health professions. It is a reform that will have to be implemented with acts of secondary rank, but having no time to see the implementing regulations in fact we will leave this legislature with a pot-pourri totally suspended. What guarantees for the future? Definitely none, because everything is very vague. The modification of the quorum necessary for the validity of the electoral assembly and the forecast of three convocations with regard to the orders, as well as the introduction of the vote by electronic means, will make everything more cumbersome and long, with operational complications of which the ratio is simply not understood, since, as Mr Gaetti said before, the situation is already quite complicated. We could also discuss other aspects, but I would like to point out a concept that needs to be clear. Let's say that health professions are still a jungle, because some university preparations are equated with other forms. In fact, you can become osteopath or chiropractor in five days, five weeks, five months or five years. Everything is very confusing and will be so until we detail exactly what is the necessary preparation profile. Are we going to say that we don't need a record certificate to treat people? For a profession a register serves only to circumscribe those protected professions that guarantee and certify the uniqueness of the action. It is the State that is the guarantor of those professions that have a high degree of responsibility. We cannot make an opening for every profession because, in fact, at that point we would cancel the guarantee value to protect the citizen, the patient, and not the profession itself. Some professions don't need a book. So let's start with training profiles; let's start with professionalism and responsibilities. The responsibility, in fact, who goes next? Let's do all these albums and give responsibility or responsibility is always the doctor, what after long courses of training, six years of medicine, blocked accesses, examinations exams, ECM courses (the education continues in medicine), for the whole life must take responsibility for a whole chain that however wants the album because maybe it aspires to the direction or maybe has delusions of greatness? The most absurd thing, however, is the schizophrenia to find, for example, a discrepancy between the national orders and the provincial ones that, when the numbers are missing, in order to save the provincial order, go also outside the Region. This means not having an application vision because, since Title V of the Constitution we have not revised it and each Region has its own address, going a bit to one Region and a little to another is a way to create further disorder. What had to be done, therefore, was to affect the formation, which is not pleasing because it costs effort. Well yes, the offices, the responsibilities are not always like a lottery extraction, as when we are voted here without an admission exam and without a preparation (and then the results are what we see). I'll say one more thing. But when you model abroad, we rather want to say that we, to date, with the education we have had so far, spend 5% or 6% of GDP, while abroad spend a 3% or 4% more, but people die more and die first? All in all, therefore, our traditional classical system was valid. And, as a guarantee, do we put less money into it? So what are we gonna do now: we're gonna get rid of and we're gonna reduce training and quality? Then, however, I want to see you when, as patients, you will end up in the hands of what took a five-day, five-week or five-month course, unlike those who made a journey of years and years (and never enough!). Let's go to other points. The limit of consecutive mandates with regard to orders deserves careful consideration, because these go to prevent that the elective assignments can be covered for more than two consecutive mandates, being of interventions that restructure the current order structure. In fact, excessive and forced rotation of summit posts is likely to undermine the stability of these bodies, as well as to prevent the planning of professional policy and, consequently, the implementation of the latter. Contrary to what has been clarified for the provincial management councils, the central committees are still expected, in the event of dissolution, to appoint an extraordinary commission of five members, of which no more than two are members of the professional associations of the category. It is not yet specified what is the qualification of the other three members of the Extraordinary Commission, appointed by ministerial decree. Let's go to the code of ethics. It is established that the national federations publish the code of ethics, approved in their national councils by at least two thirds of the members presidents of the order and referred to all the members of the territorial order, who transpose it with a resolution of the management councils. In the version approved by the Commission, the verb used was "aderire". The amendment made by the House seems inadequate in any case, as there is still an interpretative question as to whether the code of conduct approved by the national federation could not be transposed. It therefore seems strongly contradictory to require a two-thirds majority for the approval of the code of ethics and then not to provide for its mandatoryness throughout the national territory. Nor is the reference to paragraph 18 in paragraph 1 of Article 4, paragraph "Art. It seems wrong because it would appear that the central committee on health professions should be called upon against all measures, including non-disciplinary measures taken by the central committees. It is also foreseen that until the adoption of the new government regulations the provisions of Decree No 221 of 1950 will apply, however compatible they may be. In this regard, it is pointed out that the use of this phrase creates numerous interpretative problems which could give rise to disputes, since it is only the judiciary that has the competence to assess the possible tacit repeal for incompatibility. Such a situation is already taking place in the context of the application of the legislation on the corporate management of pharmacies, as last amended by Law No 124 of 2017, which contains an identical expression of the discipline on incompatibility for members and which is creating considerable difficulties of interpretation. It is therefore preferable to provide for the entry into force of the new provisions of Article 3, paragraph 1, of the legislation governing the orders of the health professions at the same time as the entry into force of the new governmental regulations. It should also be noted that, while for the national federations the relative regulations of organization remain effective until the adoption of the statutes, for the provincial orders the same forecast is not established; for the latter it is therefore necessary that it is provided that, until the adoption of the statute by the relative national federation, the internal regulations in force continue to apply. As I said, there is a great confusion: to want to change so much in fact do not change anything, except in the pejorative sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u43	D'ANNA (ALA). Mr President, since 24 May 1967 biologists have been waiting to enter the health professions and precisely because for 100,000 professionals in Italy we are going to do an act that has its historical scope, I would like to point out that it is equally historical in scope the prediction that allows so many other categories operating in the various health roles to be able to organize themselves within a professional order. Let me just say that, of course, we are more than in favour of the adoption of the measure and I would like to express my thanks for saying that one aspect has probably slipped away. The professional bodies will no longer have an auxiliary function for public administration but subsidiary; I mean that not only terminologically, but from the point of view of the meaning of administrative law they will no longer be merely auxiliary, but will be delegated to them for the decision-making tasks that are proper to the subsidiarity order. This means enhancing the function of the professional bodies, which will no longer be called upon to make cerbers and to evaluate different behaviours with respect to deontological orthodoxy, but will be able, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to propose improvements within the same profession. I have nothing else to add, but, when things are allowed to run and not regulated, it must be taken into account that health care has a particular configuration that does not have any other activity. In the other activities of the public administration it is also possible to decide not to regulate, not to control and not to supervise, and this could also lead to savings in agriculture, public works and in some other areas of public administration intervention. In health, however, the exact opposite is true: whenever legislation is not regulated and is not adapted to changing health needs, not only disservices and lack of care are produced, but also an increase in health debt. Therefore, every measure that goes in the direction of a more modern discipline and greater dynamism of the regulatory environment, within which the individual professionals move. I read in the papers that there's been some trouble, but I don't want to argue with anyone. We are now a society with advanced democracy. I understand that there are more authoritative orders, because they are more tight, like that of doctors, pharmacists and lawyers. However, I believe that with the evolution of the times - which is not changing the relationships of force, because the authority comes from the function that takes place and not from the number of members - the Italian health care rather than of internal wars needs a principle of harmony, because in the end the mission is always the same: to protect the health of citizens. With this wish I repeat the ALA Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the ALA Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u46	DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, a measure is being implemented today which is somewhat the emblem of the entire legislature in the field of health, because it arises from a government proposal, three months after Parliament has been established, that is, immediately after the government has functioned, and it closes a few weeks before the end of the legislature. The fact that he has followed such a long period of time deserves some thought in the closing phase of his parliamentary process. The measure of government origin, initially composed of 26 articles, contained a mixture of themes that was not consistent with a vision that should have been of health policy and that - as we have seen - throughout the legislature almost always lacked in the measures of government origin: always the sum of so many small interventions, often destined to tacit some requests, but without an overall vision that connected them. Of the 26 original articles, 16 were immediately deleted when the Senate Health Commission began working on the text, to try to focus on what was most important. This measure comes today to be approved, despite the original measure that came to us from the Government, thanks to the work of the two competent Commissions of Chamber and Senate, which I would like to express my thanks here. It addresses some issues that are absolutely important, although on some aspects the way in which it deals with them may not be shared. I would like to focus on a few issues. Article 1 deals with clinical trials, which, as we know, have long been in need of a cultural reorder, rather than a legislative reorder. This reordering is extremely important. As we have said in this House and in the Commission, the Government's proposal was extremely lacking on the subject, because the whole scientific world knows that what is lacking in particular on clinical trials is a definition of ethical principles for clinical research. Of this the provision that had arrived at us did not speak at all. It has been discussed for a long time, first by us in the Senate, breaking through a wall, and then by the House, and some general principles have been inserted. He did not even quote - I say this with great bitterness, because we all know how many times we have complained about the lack of quality of health measures - the Helsinki Declaration precisely on ethical issues which is 1964 and which was inserted after. Fortunately, in the meantime, a regulation from the European Union has arrived, to which we have been able to refer, and we have been able to write principles aimed at protecting the independence of trials and the absence of conflicts of interest between researchers, managers and evaluators. This is an extremely important issue, as the Government knows. The Government certainly knows the difference between a condition of conflict of interest and a behavior of conflict of interest. We are still waiting for the answer to a first-signed question, signed by many other senators, on the conflicts of interest of important bodies responsible for vaccinations by the Ministry of Health, which in any other European country would have required the replacement of people, so unresponsive to the issue of conflicts of interest, but, of course, issues relating to conflicts of interest by this Government are not dealt with with with with due attention. [[Applause from Senator Gatti.]] There would have been a need for more work on non-profit research: we first introduced it to the Health and Health Commission and then it was further improved in the House of Members, because all the research and clinical trials, carried out by non-profit studies, that is, universities, institutes of scientific shelter and care (IRCCS) or hospital companies, must be supported, because at present - and the European regulation that came out in 2014 says so clearly - the rules are the same as the big multinationals. It's not possible that a university lab is subject to the same rules if you don't have to. We have tried to introduce this principle, otherwise that means that we want to make burned land around multinationals, so that non-profit research has no future. We have also worked on this in the Commission, because the Government has sometimes forgotten independent health research. I am not going to dwell on this further, because compliance with international standards of ethics in medical research has been clearly stated in the law, which is a delegated law and therefore has so many principles and points, and we hope that the measures to be adopted will be consistent with those principles. I would like to comment on another point: the reordering of orders - excuse me for the bickering of words - is extremely important. Orders are public bodies acting as subsidiary bodies of the State in order to protect public interests and therefore have a fundamental role. We must not be surprised, because over the years they have played roles a little different from those that the law attributed to them - even the old law - often replacing the lobbyists or unions. Now we hope that this new version, this new discipline of the orders can create a new season; this not only because the orders are extended to all the health professions - which leads us with determination to assess positively the measure under consideration, because "all, or none" - but above all because it fixes very clear stakes, which perhaps to the most historical orders can cause annoyance, because they modify a little bit the wide discretion they had, but surely introduces absolutely important principles, so that, as the norm says, they operate in the exclusive public interest related to the exercise of the profession. The former Article 2 has been deleted on the essential levels of assistance (LEA) and here I would like to address the Government and I am sorry that there is no minister responsible. It has been deleted quite rightly, because in the meantime the LEAs have been approved, but they are standing by the stake, because, except for very few elements that could have been implemented without further measures from the Government, the large part - the four fifths - of that measure on LEAs, which we have all approved with great enthusiasm, is firm, because the new tariffs of all benefits are blocked at the Ministry of Economy, at a time when the draft budget law is approved. If the problem is that we lack the resources then we have asked that the solution be found at this time, otherwise we have so much praised that measure, we have so much approved it and then, unfortunately, it will remain written on the sand. Finally, I would like to say that I am very happy that we can deal with the subject of medical staff in the Ministry of Health and that a long-standing problem can be solved. Here too, however, I am sorry that everything we have done about the staff that has to do with the health sector concerns small items, small issues that concern a handful of people, while we have completely neglected the issue of the enhancement of staff, the recognition of the work that health workers do despite the continuous restrictions and despite the organizational difficulties and despite the continuous requests for staff reduction. We've lost almost three billion staff spending. It is not conceivable that a labour-intensive sector will continue to be treated as an area where staff is a detail except those of the Ministry, AIFA, the Higher Institute of Health and IRCSS. It is important that the problems of the staff of those institutions be solved, but we must look at the staff who work every day in front of the citizens. Having said that, as the measure allows us to take a step forward on clinical trials, orders and other issues, my Group is voting in favour. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u49	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I will accept your request and be very brief. I simply want to say that this bill, which has had a very long gestation, deals with two huge issues that are precisely the reorganization of clinical trials and the reorganization of health professions. With the first point, of course through a delegation law and therefore waiting for the Ministry's work for the implementing decrees, we try to put order on a very important aspect that has created problems from the so-called case Stamina down that have caused serious damage to the citizens and to our country. We'll finally get you started on this bill. As far as the health professions are concerned, here too I believe that the reordering of orders and the creation of new orders can only fit in with the aim of enhancing health professionals. Of course, someone complained, but someone is happy. I believe that this is a step forward in restoring the strength of the ordering associations. There's been some controversy about osteopaths and chiropractors. I believe that, on the other hand, this is an opportunity to bring about greater clarity on the two health professions to which millions of citizens turn. So, to conclude, I believe that the combined provision of the law on civil health responsibility and this provision is a very important regulatory step that can really make the leap in quality to our health care. Our health care, it is true, needs more resources, but if a nice car has a quality gasoline it can work and burn less fuel. As often happens, unfortunately, the laws in our country are good but there is difficulty in applying and enforcing them. I therefore hope that the two major laws which I mentioned earlier will be applied in a proper manner, and I declare the Group of the PSI-MAIE Autonomous Group's strong vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u52	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (NCI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we voted here on 24 May 2016 at first reading, following a very precise and precise debate and I would say rich, in the explanation of the amendments that were adopted, a conviction was consolidated that saw many political forces, majority and opposition, and shared their approach, the ratio. Of course, it was convinced since then that unfortunately the best is an enemy of good and therefore, let's say that we were convinced that that was a measure that could get the positive vote. And so it was. At second reading, the measure was put to the examination of the House of Deputies and - I must tell you the truth - what happened was not supposed to happen with regard to the work that the two branches of Parliament have to do, in the sense that the parliamentary shuttle - we have strongly wanted to keep the Senate convinced of this - must serve to improve the quality of the texts, to give greater strength, consistency and applicability to the rule that is intended to be adopted. So unfortunately it was not and I regret to say that it was not for reasons related to internal disputes with the majority forces supporting this Government. Madam Minister, this is not the time to argue, the President invites us to keep the time tight, but it is enough to give a reading of the speeches to the House to understand that many of the problems have developed in the PD house and I assume that it is absolutely not wrong to think that the PD did not want this measure, namely that the Democratic Party was not fully aligned, at least in that other branch of Parliament, on the adoption of this measure. Here in the Senate, however, the work has been of good quality; we have approved the measure by a very large majority in the Health Commission, we have approved it by a very large majority in this House, in the knowledge that it contains important points - I would like to say quite clearly - many of which are the children of legislative measures coming from the previous legislature and marked center-right: the theme of clinical experimentation, with the necessary harmonisation of standards in a European logic, which sometimes sees us as a taillight, the steps forward on the transparency of the procedures for carrying out clinical trials, the rigour, third-partyness, independence, the activities that we have more and better regulated with regard to ethical committees, gender medicine are all elements that must be considered very convincing. As well as the introduction of painless childbirth into the essential levels of care (LEA), the provision of even stricter sanctions for the abuse of the health professions, the discipline of some borderline professions that needed regulation are all aspects that undoubtedly had conferred and still give this measure a validity. Finally, there is the important issue of order reform, which can be called a sort of telenovela, because it drags, between lights and shadows, into Parliament's classrooms, between those who are in favour of orders and those who believe that orders are archaic remnants of a past era and that do not serve anything. We believe that orders are needed, that in order to make them serve more and better in their publicistic function they must obviously be modernised, because the legislative and regulatory sources of reference date back to seventy years. So it was tried to make, in 2006, with law n. 43 that delegated the Government to adopt specific provisions also to regulate the activity of the unordered professions, a measure expected by about one million people, not only for the pride of belonging to an order, but for the necessity to decline, within punctual and precise norms, activities of great value and of great importance from the health point of view that, vice versa, would have been entrusted to the ambiguity and the legislative vulnus, with consequent negative consequences also regarding the spaces left to impostors and abusers. Unfortunately, the end of the 14th legislature caused the delegation to lapse and nothing was done about it. In the last parliamentary term, another bleak fact, the Senate Act 1142, approved by unanimous votes by the Senate Health Commission, arrived in the Chamber, died of a heart attack: for a number of reasons, it returned to the Commission, the legislature ended and nothing was done about it. On the subject of the reorganization and modernisation of orders and the recognition of new health orders, I believe that this time we cannot take a step back. We cannot do that, because we would betray the expectations of over a million people, a million professionals who serve the country on a particularly delicate side. I am thinking of the technicians of the biomedical laboratory, dental hygienists, technicians of prevention and rehabilitation, nurses who today get the order, being constituted in college; I am thinking of medical radiology technicians. In short, this is a step forward that serves the country, not to reward the expectations of those who very often are improperly considered lobbying. It serves the country to give greater certainty and guarantee of effectiveness and efficiency to the quality of professional performance and the advertising activity that must be carried out there. Yet, if Openpolis were to make an assessment of the quality of legislative production compared between the House and the Senate, I believe that the Senate would be promoted with full votes, while the House unfortunately did not, because things got a bit messy there. It is precisely on the article relating to orders that serious errors have been made, which do not take into account the asymmetries related to electoral procedures for orders at provincial and national level. They do not take account of the code of ethics which, as regulated in the amended norm, could be disenforced in some areas of the territory, thus depriving an order of its ethical and moral code of conduct, which must necessarily have a life at national level. The same applies to existing internal regulations and their compatibility with the rules that are introduced. I do not know, Madam Minister, whether this measure can lead to falling points, but I hope that the agenda that has been adopted will serve to give a precise and precise response. I trust in the initiatives that you will soon take, so that you can clear the field of any kind of misunderstanding. One more thing and I'll finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No: Finish immediately, otherwise the microphone will be disabled. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (NCI). Here I am: Article 13, which concerned the pharmacy of the services and also was in the text of the Government, was inopportunely suppressed completely by the House, we do not know why, with an amendment of the PD. [[Call the president back.]] On the basis of these considerations, however, as they say, rather than nothing, better: the vote is positive, with reservations that have been highlighted. [[Applause from Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u53	Colleagues, I had made an appeal for the simple fact that perhaps we do not realize that we are considering a measure at third reading, it is December 22nd and there are five other items on the agenda, including the draft budget law. I appeal to your sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u56	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would kindly ask you to allow me to give my speech so that it is appended to the report. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u57	Senator Bianconi, applause like that had never been received.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u58	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). In fact, Mr President, let me just say that I am particularly happy today. The measure may be improved, but I am thinking of the two million professionals who have been waiting for him for 20 years. So thank you to Mrs Beatrice Lorenzin, thanks to Senator Emilia De Biasi and thanks to the whole Commission. I must also say thanks to my colleague, Luigi Zanda, that he had an agenda exhumed without which he could not have seen the light of this great measure. It has helped me put him in a position for which we can vote with peace today. We do this for professionals and also for us citizens, because the measure will help us to make a serious and professional struggle to abuse. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u61	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, I welcome your call for brevity and, therefore, take a few minutes to declare our abstention vote on this draft law, which, for Parliament's time, should have been the main measure of this legislature. In fact, as I said in the many interventions that preceded me, it was a long-term measure. In the end, we found ourselves faced with an incomprehensible mixture of poor rules, in place and in place of that - the only one - which would have been necessary to adopt three months after the end of the parliamentary term, i.e. a real intervention in support of public health. Instead, we have been faced with adjustments for separate and fragmented parts, without an idea of the development of the health system and the overall strengthening of public health. Today's vote is almost a mockery, because it is today that the draft budget law is approved in the House of Deputies. That budget law that confirms cuts in health care; that budget law that confirms that you do not make a serious investment in health care personnel, since always not only little valued, but with very low salaries; a budget law that does not strengthen and intervenes in support of all those millions of Italians forced to give up care, because they do not have the money; a budget law - I remind you - where the super ticket is abolished with a ridiculous figure and, therefore, it remains. The measure that we are preparing to vote on today, even for the time when it is adopted, confirms a mere electoral purpose. Even the agendas adopted earlier by a large majority on pharmacists show the electoral purpose. And it is no coincidence that Mr Lorenzin, absent throughout the debate and voting of the draft law on biotestation, perhaps the most important law of this legislature, appears in the Assembly with pleasure. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU Groups and Art.1-MDP-LEU]] We have all read that the Minister, absent on the occasion of the examination of the measure on the biotestament, has called for the non-respect of the law of the State. Shame! We have a minister subversive to the laws of the state. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU Groups and Art.1-MDP-LEU]] I should like to conclude by saying that, as far as we are concerned, in this legislature, the Ministry of Health has made obscurantist and conservative policies which have nothing to do with the necessary and urgent investment of resources in public health and the protection of the right to health. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u64	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I welcome the invitation to be brief, even in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, which provides no more than three to five minutes. On the substance of the matter, I would like to express, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, also following the intervention in general discussion, the convinced sharing of the measure in the part concerning clinical trials and rationalization with the new professional orders with reference to safety, especially for the health professional categories. The aim is to ensure that there is regulation, which has been necessary for a long time and - above all - which serves in a rational and fundamental way in the fight against health abuse, in order to ensure that the health of citizens is particularly safe, so that the citizen who addresses these categories has the certainty and guarantee of a precise regulation. So, from this point of view, we have a very positive opinion on these aspects of the measure. There are still concerns, as I said earlier, about the regulation of professional orders. We note, however, that this morning's debate and the adoption of certain agendas go in the direction of remedying some shortcomings which, in my opinion, are also shared by this House. However, for a sense of responsibility on the part of its members, so as not to leave an argument that has been dragging for decades with this type of regulation and, therefore, I would say for a sense of responsibility on the substance of the issue, although with some doubts about the merit of some characteristics, the vote of Forza Italia will be positive. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro.]] With a notation; since the provision is a delegation to the Government and, therefore, not a law, I hope that, being present the Minister of Health and the representatives of the Government, in the delegation particular account will be taken of the commitments that have been made, because the agendas, which are usually a content to obtain the approval of the provision, in this case are a precise commitment. With these reasons the vote of Forza Italia will be, not convincedly, favorable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. Memories of my calls.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u67	WHITE (PD). Mr President, I see you've done some prevention. I immediately satisfy you by anticipating that I will deliver the text, spending only very few words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of the statement so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. WHITE (PD). When voting on any measure, I believe that the legislator wonders whether it meets real needs and whether the real problems are those that are faced. Secondly, it immediately asks whether what is proposed and what is written in the provision addresses and solves the problems. I believe that the legislative text we are examining is complex in terms of the issues it deals with. As we have also seen in the vote, there are different degrees of the House's acceptance of the text. It is also a complex text because it is a mix of delegations and legislative novelties. I believe that the measure addresses real problems. We have listened to him on research, on the huge issue of the health professions and the professional institutions that govern their fundamental ethical and civil principles. We have heard this in the measures relating to recognition and regulation. You see that recognition is a prerequisite for regulation, and that is a principle that applies throughout Europe. This is how we have to read them, not as races or chases. Of course, it will be difficult, and it is difficult to govern the multiplicity of competences and border lines. However, I believe that if the only real and great mission of these professions, which is to respond to and put at the centre the needs of the assisted person, there must be no wars and there will be no wars. I would therefore like to comment on the other measures, and then to have a chat with Senator Gaetti, of course, if you wish, about some of the concerns of Law No 24. It was necessary to correct a mistake made about this law and the doctors of the Ministry. I think these are due acts. In conclusion, Mr President, the measure deals with real issues and gives real and concrete answers to real problems. The measure has the reformist drive to move forward and it is for these reasons that I declare the vote in favour of the colleagues, senators and senators of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u69	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u70	MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly and reserve the right to deliver the written text. We are convinced that the measure is positive in itself, because the text contains some fundamental points for the daily activity and the future of the health professions. We look with particular interest at the response that is given to over one million citizens and operators who, day after day, do a very profitable job in the interest and protection of public health. We are very interested and look with positivity at the very strong signal that is given to the fight against health abuse, but there are some issues that we did not like and that did not convince us. Between the critical profiles of the orders sign, in particular, that the text limits in a discriminatory way the freedom to vote of the members in their function as electors; no problems of substantial importance such as the relationship and coordination with the judicial authority in the disciplinary field are addressed; the investigation of disciplinary measures is entrusted to a tern of draw between the members, without any characteristic or qualification. I believe that it is right, as provided for in the norm, to separate the preparatory phase from that of the judge, but the investigation must certainly be entrusted to competent and qualified subjects. Another critical point is the establishment of seats in hospitals by delegation to the Minister the rules for the establishment of seats themselves, without taking into account the issue of the costs of such an operation and without the rule containing or explicit how to ensure the establishment of balanced seats. For these reasons, I shall not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u73	LUCIDES (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. Mr. President, what's up with Senator Lucidi? I see you very thoughtful. LUCIDES (M5S). Because he really wanted to be here with us today, I wanted you to hear his voice. [[Senator Lucidi approaches the cell phone speaker to the microphone. The microphone is switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u74	Senator Lucidi, then you tell me in private. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] Senator Buemi is good, at least under Easter! Excuse me, I meant under Christmas. The other day I saw that Senator Crimes was jammed; today I am jammed, so afterward I will wish everyone a good Easter. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and GAL-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u77	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking only to thank the Government, the whole of Parliament, colleagues, and offices who have done a truly extraordinary job in these long years of examining a historic measure. Mr LORENZIN, Minister for Health. I'll join you. DE BIASI (PD). Minister Lorenzin associates. I think that thanks must be given for a high-quality non-stop work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u78	The next item is the debate on draft law No 361-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Idem, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to illustrate very briefly the philosophy of this measure, which has remained unchanged and responds to a dual need. The first is to adapt the Italian law to the IOC's guidelines, increasing to three the maximum number of mandates of the national Olympic Committee's summits. The second is to extend this discipline also to the top bodies of national sports federations and associated sports disciplines. This is necessary because the current legislation provides that federal presidents may be re-elected after two consecutive mandates provided they obtain 55% of the valid votes. This in the past has allowed very long stays in office. As already foreseen in the version of the bill approved by the Senate, the new discipline also applies to sports promotion agencies and to the territorial structures of CONI, sports federations and associated disciplines. Moreover, it extends in the same measures described also to the entire paralympic universe, object of the recent discipline dictated by Legislative Decree No. 43 of 2017, implementing the Madia reform, intervened while the present provision was being examined in Montecitorio. For this reason, the Chamber, in line with the new organic discipline of the CIP, the sports federations and the paralympic associated disciplines, intervened by announcing the aforementioned decree, as provided for in article 3 of the bill. In essence, however, the content of the provisions already contained in the Senate text has remained unchanged. Turning to a brief examination of the main contents of the measure and the most significant changes, it is noted that Article 1 is identical, providing that the ICON bodies can carry out three mandates. The same maximum number of mandates is provided for in Article 2, which amends Article 16 of Legislative Decree No 242 of 1999 for the governing bodies of the sports federations and associated sports disciplines, leaving the forecast to the federal statutes in consistency with the recognition of the autonomy of the sporting system. This is a very important step to take into consideration. The first novelty in the text approved by the House is that the same statutes will have to promote equal opportunities for men and women. The second, of a purely linguistic nature, concerned the replacement of the word revision with a reduction in voting rights in elected assemblies. In this respect, however, it is worth remembering how they can currently be up to 40. The new limit set by the law, on the other hand, is 5. The most important change with regard to content is inherent in the transitional rules for the top management of the sport promotion bodies and federations currently in office, as provided for in Article 6 (4) and (7). It is expected that those who are in office at the entry into force of the law and who have already reached the new limit of the three mandates, with provisions that apply to both the normodate and the paralympic universe, will be able to carry out one further and not two, as provided for in the anticipated version of the transitional discipline. For the presidents, in any case, 55% of the valid votes will have to be secured. Finally, CONI and CIP were excluded from Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u80	As you are not included in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u81	I am against all the amendments. Instead, the opinion was in favour of the G2100 agenda and opposed the G2101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u82	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u83	Article 1 is identical to Article 1 of the text approved by the Senate. We now come to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. CIOFFI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G2.101, tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Gotor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Gotor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u85	We shall cancel the vote. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u86	BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. We're running incredibly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're talking about the CONI and you don't want to run, Senator? [[Applause. Laughter.]] BLUNDO (M5S). In fact, we're on the subject. I can see we're running. Amendment 3.3... PRESIDENT. Senator, you've already been voted on. We are voting on Rule 3. BLUNDO (M5S). What vote has been cancelled? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The one that was in progress and therefore the vote on Rule 3. BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, we did not want to include corrective measures in this article: we are running with the votes and we have not even been able to explain the amendments, because we have not given them time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you were on the phone, Senator Blondo. I won't let you do that. BLUNDO (M5S). I wasn't on the phone at all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll see the internal footage again. BLUNDO (M5S). I wasn't on the phone. I was trying to follow the work in this race and here we close a shameful page of the CONI. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo.]] On this article we did not want to put neither democracy nor clarity in relation to the Icon and the elections. We had tabled amendments to Article 3 which called for those participating in other politically oriented bodies in state, regional and local administrations not to play the role of President. We are firmly voting against this article which has not been amended in any way and which shows the country that it does not want to guarantee a free and democratic sport.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u87	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Article 4, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1 tabled by Senator Gotor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u90	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, we have a window. By approving this amendment, we have a window, a little window. This amendment calls for no more than three preferences to be expressed among the candidates. Anyone who knows the voting mechanism knows that the more preferences the more and the easier it is to direct the votes. I ask the House for a minimum sense of responsibility. Amendments 4.3 and 4.4 provide an opportunity to give a signal. I hope that at least on this every senator can realize that we have not allowed sport in Italy to have the right respect that deserves. We rewritten the document and wanted to deny what had been achieved initially in the Senate Commission. I hope that, at least as far as the choice of equal opportunities for women and men is concerned, a minimum right to freedom of vote and democracy can be restored.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u91	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Blundo, until the words "more than" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.4 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Article 5 is identical to Article 4 of the text approved by the Senate. We now come to the examination of Article 6, corresponding to Article 5 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Gotor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.7, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.8 tabled by Senator Gotor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u94	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I cannot understand why we are letting the ICON remain the same. Amendment 6.9 calls for the Presidents and members of the national and territorial governing bodies of sports federations (...) to lapse if, on the date of entry into force of this law, they are deprived of the legal requirements for their stay in office or if the new limits laid down for their mandates are exceeded. We haven't touched the limits, there are three left, and we don't even want anyone who doesn't qualify to fall. I really don't know what level we want to go to! I understand that you must protect the realities that exist and those who ask for protection. However, I believe that, if there is a chance to show a minimum of respect, it is to apply what we propose to those who do not have legal requirements. We're not asking for anything extraordinary and don't tell me it's already in the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u95	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.9 tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.10, tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.12, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.13, tabled by Senator Gotor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.14, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.15, tabled by Senator Gotor. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u98	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, I rise for a very brief explanation of vote. After about ten years, finally the draft law will see the light, which was first presented by me in 2008: much more than two mandates in the CONI. The mandates I had proposed were two and not three, but in politics there is also the art of mediation. Therefore, I would like to express my satisfaction that the process of this bill is finally over and that it contains not only the limit to the mandates of the CONI, but also two other forecasts which I consider to be very important for Italian sport: the limit of the five delegations that can be represented in the Assembly and, above all, the fact that the limit of mandates also applies to territorial authorities. In these bodies there have been "conditioners" of the sport, and President Sibilia knows it well that he was the only one who managed to commissary his federation, in his territory, for a " ras " that was there for forty years. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]] I therefore believe that the draft law before us is finally going on with a more modern sport. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u101	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to say that I share the views of Senator Ranucci. It seems to me that the bill that we are approving rationalises a situation, is the result of a long reflection and give certainty to the world of sport, after a long wait and a very troubled iter. So it is not unusual that at the end of the legislature, or at the end of this session before Christmas, this topic is discussed, because in Italy the organization of sport is an essential component of society. I am pleased that Mr Ranucci stressed in his speech the wisdom with which he worked not only in Parliament but also in the world of sport, Mr Sibilia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u102	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 6, corresponding to Article 5 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u105	Mr Gotor (Rule 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement - Free and Equal I declare our vote against this measure. This is a missed opportunity, because Italian sport would need an intervention on its governance and structure, a framework law that, once again, has not arrived. This is based on the sacrosanct principle that sport and its diffusion constitute a public policy par excellence in terms of health, inclusion of people, education, personality formation and also for economic development. Sport, in fact, is worth 2% of average GDP in Europe, and not only football but sports equipment, clothing, instructors, courses, basic sport, with a large and widespread presence in society that is never enough. All this, in Italy, unique case in Europe, has been governed since 1942 with a delegation to the CONI that has assumed the state of public body. The Italian State has only remained a function of mere statutory supervision. We have a sports minister who is not here today - and this is important, but there are no functions and there is no plan and no census of the country's sporting activities; there are few campaigns for the spread of sports activity and a healthy lifestyle, despite Italy being the penultimate place in Europe for the share of absolute sedentaries. 11:47 a.m. (Gotor followed). There are as many as 400 million funding to the ICON, but there are no checks on the result. These are the problems we should have faced and we did not. We are confined to a small intervention, to a mediocre intervention, which cannot justify our support. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u108	Rossi Luciano (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, I can immediately say that, from the initial proposal of my fellow Members, Mr Ranucci and Mr Puglisi, we have made considerable progress objectively, as Mr Ranucci and Mr Puglisi also reminded us a moment ago. Therefore, there is no doubt that we have moved in one direction, with greater attention never sufficiently to the level that Italian sport and the social function that sport certainly exercises deserve. There is no doubt that we are talking about the Olympic Committee today. But the inclusion of the Paralympic Committee, which in Legislative Decree No. 242 of 1999 was not respected as it already deserved at the time, but also the changes that followed, in fact, have reserved concrete attention. Therefore, the activity of the Italian Paralympic Committee must rightly be observed but, at the same time, it must also be regulated. With regard to the limit of mandates - basically reduced to this - it is objectively reductive to talk about it when it comes to the meaning of Italian sport. There is no doubt that I have always had serious concerns about those who, in fact, were supported, elected with an absolutely democratic consensus. So it's a good thing to set limits. I fear that this will in future limit the credibility of our representatives in the international context. Few are paying attention to the role and extraordinary people who have performed and are fulfilling a task on the International Committee. In the Chamber we have a sports giant, Franco Carraro and in Parliament we have had a great character like Mario Pescante. They are people of long course who have been able to carry out their task for a deserved credibility, but with the time necessary to accredit themselves in the international context. I would therefore like to highlight my hope that the role and credibility of the Committee's actual work will be strengthened, and there are also those who suggest what the future can be, given that something has been addressed in any case. There is no doubt that the credibility of our sports system is not only due to the inclusion in the international context of our delegates of the International Olympic Committee and, more generally, of the Presidents of the international federations. Senator Blondo said: "What a shame the CONI." With this statement he has offended, however, millions of Italians and Italians, volunteers who commit themselves with daily dedication fulfilling a task of extraordinary social value. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] It is not possible to make a summary, shameful statement like his: if someone has to be ashamed, it is who made the shameful decision to deny to our capital and our country the organization of the Games of Rome of 2024; a challenge to which we have escaped, in front of which we have made ourselves first protagonists with the credibility that Italian sport has in the world, and then we made ridicule with a decision made by someone who is very dear to you, but certainly not to me or to us. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD ePD Groups]] It does not extend to me, but there is no doubt that this measure of fact goes in a shared direction. Madam President, there is no doubt that it is the main reference to which each of us must look which must be respected and to which attention must be paid. As a result, we are going to support with conviction this measure which - I repeat - restricts mandates and in this respect I highlight my partial sharing. However, we will clearly do so in the best interests of our Olympic Committee, in particular our Committee president, in accordance with the social function that Italian sport carries out and will always perform more and better if positive attention is given to it. [[Senator Dalla Tor's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u111	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at second reading in the Senate, we are debating important issues hastily, close between the lobbying pressures of the CONI and the sports federations and the need to occupy time pending the return of the budget law. Sport is very important for citizens and for the country. Therefore, it is very important the method of government and the time of government granted to those who play an apical role in the CONI and in the many other associations that deal with the sport organization. For this reason, the governance and role of the CONI and the federations need generational change, which with this measure will not be there, and unfortunately we will miss yet another opportunity to improve our rules and therefore behavior and results. What I said before - unlike what you said, Senator Luciano Rossi - is absolutely a shame not for those who work in the CONI, but for the political choices that have been made. As far as what we are going to approve today is concerned, I fear that the amount of money involved in sport, as well as the very high number of sportsmen who are also voters, has led Parliament to make mistakes. Politician politics always prefers to co-opt the same old faces and the same leaders, who have not completely done good to sport. And I don't care about the incredible elimination of our national team at the World Cup. In this House, at least one thing, at first, had been conquered: the limit of the two mandates and the limit to a single delegation which can be exercised in the case of voting for the election of the presidents and members of the governing bodies of the federations; the hypothesis immediately crippled by the rapporteur at that time, thanks to a transitional discipline, which has allowed to save and re-fish for two other mandates the executives in office. Excellent fishing! Too bad the fish are our athletes and our children! Then came the work of the House, which modified in several parts the text approved in the Senate. I do a synthetic roundup, limiting myself exclusively to what I consider the worst changes made. Once the transitional phase had passed, the maximum number of mandates of the President and of the other members of the national junta of the ICC increased to three. As far as national sports federations and associated sports disciplines are concerned, the number of three - perfect for you - is still limited to the mandates of the Presidents. With regard to the CIP (Italian Paralympic Committee), the paralympic sports federations, the paralympic sports disciplines and the paralympic sports promotion agencies, the magic number is always three. This time, however, it is an increase in the mandates to be exercised by the President and the other members of the national junta. And all this is done for the benefit of the paralympic athletes; but let me say that paradoxically, if not against them, it is done at least in the indifference of their interest: the advantage is only for those who want to keep the office already covered, perhaps hoping in a form of dynastic succession, with good peace of democracy. We come to the final pearl: the presidents and members of the national and territorial governing bodies of the paralympic sports federations, the paralympic sports disciplines and the paralympic sports promotion bodies, which are in office at the entry into force of the law and have already reached the proposed limit of three mandates, may carry out, if elected, a further mandate. Only in the case of the presidents, it is established that the outgoing one is candidate and re-elected only if it reaches a majority of not less than 55% of the voters. One pearl, I said: made the rule, approved also the derogation and the extension. Of course, always better than no limit, say you; always better a law badly done, than no law. In fact, the three mandates and the derogation described are likely to restore the absence of the limit. And this is not a reform, but a counter-reform, which prolongs the power of those who already have it. With regard to the lack of a limit, I end by stigmatizing the badness for which amendments to the budget law are tried in one House, while the other discusses an entire measure twice, dedicating itself to the Commission - yes - time, passion and energy. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Idem, for this. I am referring to the fact that other amendments have been tabled to the House of Deputies in the course of its work on the budget law, after it had been adopted in the Senate, which have created a distortion in the legislative process, without achieving the aim. Having proposed an amendment to raise the limit of mandates, now rightly limited to two, for the only President Malagò del Coni, was the road originally chosen. Following the revolt of all the others, the path of the so-called amendment Malagò was abandoned, to return to debate after a very tight lobbying activity by the interested parties, who obtained an urgent calendarization of the provision to the Senate. We are here to reform the sports management sector, just because, with an ad personam amendment, a ruse has been lifted, which you now have to try to control. We are debating the measure not to seriously improve legislation - as I have already said, including the amendments - but to do the interests of those who have always been in power in the world of sport. Only the 5 Star Movement, also through my proposals in the Commission and in the Assembly, is fighting for the principle of the two mandates, expired, which the command and responsibility pass to new motivated, capable and enthusiastic people. In the meantime, however, the Chamber of Deputies has been approved an amendment establishing at the ICON the National Register of Sports Agents for the conclusion of professional contracts: another caste, under the supervision of the CONI, which should deal only with the Olympic Games. And the 5 Star Movement believes that that's its role. Remember that I said that sport is important for the amount of money in circulation? Here's the proof. The ICON will be crucial, because it will have to adopt the regulation establishing incompatibility and sports sanctions. I believe that there is enough to understand why our political initiative is opposed by all political forces, embraced in a single beam of majority and opposition, united in favor of maintaining the current sports leadership. This is not the sport that we want, nor the citizens and those who work with love and passion, dedication and professionalism in the field of sport. It's only honor to them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u114	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since this is the last time I have spoken in this Parliament, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the bureaucratic structure of the Senate for the support it has given to me and all my colleagues and colleagues for four years and nine months. Thank you very much. To me, who was in the first legislature, you allowed me to work in the best possible way. [[Applause]] We are finally approving a measure involving hundreds of thousands of executives, 99.9% of whom are amateurs. When it was thought that it was appropriate to set a limit on mandates, an attempt was made to proceed with some rationality and taking account of reality. We are introducing in Italy the system of three mandates that adopted the International Olympic Committee in 1999 for its president and also FIFA last year - in 2016 - following the scandals that have occurred. We do not invent anything: we do something that abroad have shown us to be efficient. In the field of sport and in the world, there is no body with fewer than three mandates. Almost all sports federations abroad have no number of mandates. As far as the transitional rules are concerned, they have been studied in such a way that an organization, which with its virtues and its great flaws is still the result of a hundred years of experience, will change, but without a revolution that would result in a great upheaval or a world that in 99 percent of cases is amateurs. It seems to me that common sense rules allow for a renewal; in seven years' time the sports world will be completely renewed, without excessive shock. It seems to me to be a measure made with some rationality. We had done so in the Senate, the House did not touch the measure in essence, introducing common sense rules and valid with regard to gender equality and the exaltation of the role of women; even this without revolution, but with a correct reformism. For this reason, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Idem, who put her passion on, and Senator Ranucci, who had presented together with Senator Puglisi, the draft parliamentary law from which we started. I think Parliament has done a good job. Even the stimulus that came from Senator Blundo, who has a very different opinion on the measure, has been useful. It has arrived and has been put to good use, starting from diametrically opposite points of view, a compromise that, for Italian sport, represents something positive. For this reason, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I am voting in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD groups, and from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u117	Mr Marcucci (PD). Madam President, Madam Minister, I believe that the measure before us is more important than it appears. First of all, it bears witness to a new impetus, desired by the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments, but also by Parliament, towards sport. We have done so much and so does the budget law that we are going to vote on in the next few hours. We have done so much to finance and support sport, as well as to help it and recognize the social, educational and growth function of our country that it has had in the past decades and that it can have above all in the future. We discussed the measure with attention and depth. We have held many interesting hearings in the 7th Commission, ladies and gentlemen. We in the majority have tried to involve all political forces, also finding shores and thank, in particular, Senator Carraro. The idea was launched by Senator Ranucci and Senator Puglisi with their bill because, in full respect of the autonomy of sport, we could give a sign of modernity, bringing back in the sport of the needs revealed important also in the world of politics and institutions; the need to renew over time a digestive class, without harming the autonomy of sport and putting it in trouble. Sport federations are certainly important, just as all territorial organizations, those of amateurs, the hundreds of thousands of amateurs who every day, with sacrifice, carry out an important social enterprise. I, Senator Blundo, am only bitter about an important matter. During those auditions we also listened to Mrs. Mayor Rays to ask for guarantees, to give support and to be a team, because in front of us we had an important opportunity for our country, that of the Olympics of 2024 in Rome. AIROLA (M5S). When I did it, Monti, you were all quiet! Mr Marcucci (PD). We called for this cooperation, we made ourselves available - the Government has done so and the whole Parliament has done so - precisely at that hearing. We found deafness; I think we also found blindness. In my opinion, you have made mistakes and this has been a serious mistake. I dare to think that with that decision you have worked against our country and against the city of Rome. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Unlike you... (at 12.10 p.m.) LEZZI (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, please. Montevecchi (M5S). Don't campaign, Marcucci! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, everyone has spoken; now Senator Marcucci has the right to speak. Please, Senator Marcucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). I would like to say that sport education is not the stronghold of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] Let me say again that we in the Democratic Group are happy and proud to come to today's vote. Mr Lezzi (M5S). We're all going to the bank, we're missing the Woods! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, Senator Buemi, please. AIROLA (M5S). When Monti was there, they were all happy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, calm down, you who are taken to us. Mr Marcucci (PD). Let me conclude by stressing the pride of the Democratic Party Group in working to strengthen sport in this country and modernising it. This is a step in this direction. I conclude with the wish for good work to the federations, the Olympic Committee and all Italian sportsmen. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u120	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, we are proceeding quickly, as it should be, but I think it is right to find a second to remember that seventy years ago, on 22 December 1947, the constituent Assembly approved the Italian Constitution. [[Senators stand up. General and prolonged applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u121	I thank Senator Fornaro and I also thank the referendum of 4 December 2016. I remind everyone of the event to be held this afternoon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u124	LUCIDES (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u125	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u126	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for authorisation for the use of wiretapping of telephone conversations by Senator Simona Vicari in a criminal proceeding pending against third parties, transmitted by the judge's office for preliminary investigations at the Palermo Court. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly the granting of authorization to use the interceptions of telephone conversations by Senator Simona Vicari. I would ask the working rapporteur, Senator Pezzopane, if she wishes to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u127	, f.f. Mr President, I would just like to say that I refer to the written report, which has already been printed and distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u128	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u131	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this report by my group. We also call for the vote on this document, and also on the subsequent vote, to be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u132	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization to use Senator Simona Vicari's wiretap of telephone conversations. The Senate approves.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u133	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for authorisation to proceed to trial - sent by the Republic's Public Prosecutor to the Tribunal of Rome - against Dr Alfredo Robledo for the offence referred to in Article 290 of the Criminal Code (vilipendio delle Assemblie legislativee) The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the granting of permission to proceed with Dr Alfredo Robledo. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, whether she intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u134	Mr President, I would just like to refer to the written report, which has already been printed and distributed, and I refer to the decision taken by the junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u135	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u138	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, in the face of this request for authorisation to proceed with the offence referred to in Article 290 of the Criminal Code, which is the crime of cowardice, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote against, essentially and very briefly, for two reasons. First of all, we believe that a crime such as that of cowardice, as configured, is an anti-historical legacy. The question of respectability and dignity, in this case of parliamentary assemblies, must be addressed in another way: criticism must be allowed. We certainly do not want to intervene in the case that has seen Senator Albertini and Dr. Robledo on several occasions. We confine ourselves to a legal-constitutional consideration and to the penal code. In addition, we believe that Parliament, rather than entering into criminal proceedings of this kind, should defend its good repute with constant, precise and transparent work, always bearing in mind the criteria of dignity laid down in our Constitution. For these reasons, we shall vote against the Junta's proposal, both with regard to the question of Dr Alfredo Robledo and with regard to the other matter, also concerning a question of cowardice, which concerns Dr Sabrina Angelico, referred to in the next procedure. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u141	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, in this document, for the first time, the application of the authorisation institute to proceed against those who are potentially responsible for the crime of cowardice to the Republic and to the Legislative Assemblies (pursuant to Article 290 of the Criminal Code) provides for a favourable proposal. For the first time, that is, the Senate would prepare, if the Junta's proposal were approved, to ensure that legal proceedings are taken to sanction, even if with a penalty of a financial nature, whoever has or would have vile the Legislative Assembly. Dr Robledo's story - it is not a secret - is part of a long-standing conflict between a member of this Assembly and the foretold magistrate. In addition to recalling some points already mentioned by Senator Casson, I would like to express on behalf of the 5 Star Movement an opposition, also in reference to another crime, that of vilipendio against the President of the Republic, who saw our legislative initiative aimed at repealing that norm, even heritage of monarchy era and then brought back in the republican sphere by the penal code of the fascist period, by virtue of the necessary extension of the democratic principles of freedom of expression and opinion. We consider this crime anachronistic and, as also mentioned in the same document, we believe that the prestige, good repute and respectability of the constitutional bodies and of the Republic itself must be earned on the ground with work, consistency, commitment, transparency, in essence with the fulfilment of institutional duties in compliance with the provisions of Article 54 of the Constitution. I will certainly not want to add the burden on how much in perception, sometimes even distorted (I do not say no), of the media and social media this impression is completely lost, because there is a feeling of distrust and sometimes even contempt for these constitutional bodies. However, we must earn this respect on the ground and not perching or even giving the only impression of perching behind what appears to be an anachronistic shield of punishing those who practice criticism, perhaps even with violence but verbally (of course we speak of verbal violence and never of a physical or factual type). We believe that this kind of attitude, all the more because it would be a 180 degree reversal of the orientation of the Junta and the Senate so far, would be a very serious fact that, instead of going towards the announced intention, would reverberate against the respect of the constitutional bodies, including the Senate. I therefore say no to the crime, that it would have no reason to exist. In the next legislature we will also propose the repeal of the crime provided for in Article 290 of the Criminal Code. In this particular case, I would like to point out to my fellow senators that, even if I do not share the point of view I am trying to put forward, in Dr Robledo's remarks (reported on page 2 of the document), you will see that his words are highly critical, certainly unpleasant, censorable, we can also say unacceptable, but opinions remain, protected by Article 21 of the Constitution. The reference is to the Junta of Parliamentary Immunity which, according to Dr. Robledo, would have invented the bestiality of retroactive immunity to save the skin of the Senator called in question that - it is not a secret - is Senator Albertini. There is therefore another aspect, if you will allow me, Mr President, of a technical type: apparently, we are out of the reach of the norm, which, as it was conceived, wanted to protect the goodness of the legislative assemblies. Here, Dr. Robledo does not attack the Senate as such, but rather an organism, in this case the immunity committee. If we open the door to the authorization to proceed for crime of cowardice against the Council of the immunity of the Senate, we will be forced to open it also to any criticism, the harshest conceivable, towards any body within the Legislative Assemblies, Commissions, Juntaes or Special Commissions. Where are we gonna go? And I say, in this case: where is the voice of those guarantors, of Senators Buemi and of whom, on the other side of the hemicycle, has so often evoked the principles of guarantee and respect? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Where are you, you guarantee hairy? (I am referring to guaranteeing that it is hairy, not to the bodies of senators expressing such positions). [[Comments from the PD Group.]] What I am saying will be more consistent when we examine the other document, relating to the same crime, that is, the authorization to proceed against Dr. Angelico, administrative director of the Attorney General of Catania, who dared to publish a post, whose offensiveness I invite you to judge (we will do so when we examine the document). The post on Facebook under consideration is a thousandth, indeed a billionth of what - I add: unfortunately - in every minute of our life, we can read on social media. In this case, too, we want to open a breach of criminality by the Senate Palace, and more generally by Parliament, which feels offended by a post, whose offensiveness is nothing compared to what we unfortunately read every day, so falling into the trap that will see this same Assembly more noticeable, for its desire to lock up and defend itself from those that are opinions, although the most critical and unpleasant that we can imagine. Returning to the document under consideration, the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, in Giunta, reminded us that in all previous cases, in which the Council of Immunity did not grant permission to proceed, it did not do so, for the reasons indicated in the document, even with regard to expressions such as: "Let's bring him a bomb package to the Senate," "They are all a mass of (...)" and put any adjective after. To date, the Senate - not because it deserves these offenses of course and we are the first to want to protect the institutions - has acted in the sense that I am trying to illustrate: in all those cases, even in the face of those who wrote "Let's get a bomb," "Let's bomb Parliament," the Junta has never granted permission to proceed with the crime of cowardice. Do you want to explain to us why in this case and from now on we are changing this orientation so radically? We realize that the final result will not be a protection of the institutions, but even more their apparent contempt, which will be represented by those who once again see the Palace locked up in itself, raising the walls and raising the drawbridge, rather than giving a message of positivity and closeness to the citizens. And here I have to refer to the issue of vitality, because that would really be a signal that would be worth more than a hundred of these Junta documents, which would nominally protect the image of Parliament. For these reasons, it is clear that the vote which my Group will be voting on this report will be against, i.e. not granting permission to proceed. [[Applause from Senator Cioffi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u144	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I will vote in favour of the report proposed by the Junta, because too many times it happens that public officials allow themselves to go to attitudes of outrage to constitutional bodies and organs of the State in general. In this case it is even more serious that this attitude has been taken by a citizen, by a public official of the State of a high degree, who is absolutely in possession of the tools to assess the extent of his attitude and his statements. Here he is not a normal citizen, not cultured with respect to the problems of our sophisticated criminal legal system: he is a magistrate, who daily has to do with such problems. Therefore, Mr President and colleagues, I believe that we can no longer accept that by public officials, who have sworn allegiance to the State and its bodies, delegitimizing attitudes of this kind should take place. The Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and the Senate Assembly, in taking certain measures, were in full constitutional law and legitimacy of their positions and therefore cannot be allowed to question the good repute of these institutions. For these reasons, I shall vote in favour of this proposal. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u147	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I think it is appropriate to clarify what has happened, because in fact some things need to be clarified. Meanwhile, see the jurisprudence, or rather the custom of the Junta of the past years, for others dating back. It is true that the latest decisions have been in the sense of denying authorization to proceed, but better research and further investigation has shown that in the past authorisation has been granted several times and repeatedly in cases similar to those which concern us. Another aspect that should be clarified in some way is that, in fact, Dr Robledo's attack was not brought exclusively to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, but to the entire Senate. BOTTICS (M5S). To the caste! CUCCA (PD). It was brought to the entire Assembly, which later confirmed the decision taken by the Junta. It is an absolutely hard and vehement attack, probably because he felt impressed in his person. I just want to bring back a passage, which has already been recalled, also in support of the granting of the authorization: They cannot splash into their privileges, blackmail institutions with their positions and remain unpunished at all times. That would be enough to understand what we are talking about and what accusations have been made to this House. I very much agree that the institutions must defend their authority by their own actions, but I believe that we are doing so, also in this circumstance, in which the House has been severely attacked, with an invitation to contempt and disobedience, because this has been the case. So let us look at the case law on this matter, relating to Article 290 of the Criminal Code, which - let us not forget - is still in force and as long as it is in force the magistrates in charge of the investigations have the duty to do what has been done, namely to ask for authorization to proceed, which is a condition of processability. We are not going in to evaluate what he has done and what Dr Robledo has said about the Parliamentary Assembly, we are simply considering whether or not we should grant the authorisation. The judgment on these facts will be for the judiciary only. Perhaps we should try to have more mutual respect for the institutions, and Senator Buemi did well to remember that the speaker is not just any one, but a magistrate and magistrate should have confidence in the institutions of which he himself is a member. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] We simply have to grant the authorization to proceed, that is to say, the procedural condition without which we could not go on in the proceedings and we will never know who is right. In this case, I repeat, constant jurisprudence says that when the manifestation of thought is directed to deny all respect or confidence to the institution, inducing the recipient to contempt and disobedience, it cannot speak of mere criticism but of cowardly conduct. Suffice it to say that he accused us of having carried out an exchange vote, he accused us, in essence, of committing a crime. If there are no conditions in this case for granting authorisation, then I do not know when they are there; then we should have the courage to abolish Article 290 directly and forget it. We can deal with this, but in force this penal code, in force our system, we have a duty to defend the institutions. Remember that the decisions we talked about are very old in time, to the point that there were no social media at that time. Today we are targeted in the everyday life of our work and even when we operate well, there is always someone who insults us. Perhaps we should try to be a little more united in the defence of these institutions, because I believe it is our duty to take the oath we have given to the Constitution, because these are rights that are contained in the Constitution and in this sense we should be a little more united and defend it, leaving it to each one of us. It is up to the judiciary to whom, even in other circumstances, we have bowed and are always ready and willing to bow to their actions. But - lively God - we carry out our tasks, because I believe that the authority we gain also by carrying out our tasks honestly and rightly. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and ALA groups, and Senators Albertini and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u150	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I was very curious about Senator Buccarella's speech and consequently I went to read the proceedings of this decision of the Council. I would very quickly like to say very little. Firstly, you are all opposed to the existence of the crime of cowardice: can you explain to me the reason why you opposed the change in the crime of cowardice in this House and, subsequently, the change that had been launched in this House was then blocked in the House? Perhaps because in that case the crime of cowardice found Francesco Storace as defendant? Second point: you see, Senator Buccarella, you wondered where the guarantors, Senator Buemi and those of this part of the hemicycle are. You know, Senator Buccarella, I was thinking: you have always voted favorably to the demands of a magistrate; you explain to me why today, in the face of a request from a magistrate, you vote against? Just because another magistrate is interested? [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL Group XVII]] Thirdly, you see, Senator Buccarella, when the Junta and then the Assembly take a measure such as the one mentioned in Robledo's raving statements, the judicial authority has the possibility to raise conflict and, on the basis of the conflict, the Constitutional Court will pronounce itself. You see, Senator Buccarella, in the present case, the absence of authorization from the Senate would result in the closure of those investigations that the Attorney of Catania seems interested, investigations that the Attorney of Catania considers useful, recognizing at least that minimum of clues that prevents him from filing immediately. Then you will understand, Senator Buccarella, that I am interested in voting for this authorization for a very simple reason: Dr Robledo accused the Senate, in its plenary form and in its conformation as Giunta, of the offence of abuse in office acts and of the offence of voting of exchange. I do not want to block the investigation of the judicial authority, I want to understand if this really happened because Dr. Robledo will have to defend himself and explain to us on the basis of what he has made such serious statements. Since I am a member of this Senate, I have every interest in the fact that, even if it is pro-quota, that proportion of the image that concerns me is dealt with by that judicial authority in which we respect you and all of us. I have the impression that you manifest formal respect in alternate sense. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u151	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, previously made by the Sensor Buccarella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization to proceed to trial against Dr Alfredo Robledo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u152	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for authorisation to proceed to trial - transmitted by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic to the Court of Catania - against Dr. Sabrina Angelico for the offence referred to in Article 290 of the penal code (vilipendio delle Assemblies legislativee) The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly the granting of permission to proceed with Dr. Sabrina Angelico. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, whether she intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u153	Mr President, here again I refer to the report which has been printed and filed. As a result of the debate that had taken place before, I would also like to mention something that my colleagues in the Junta know why I have already said: I too had added myself to the people who have expressed doubts about the crime of cowardice, but as long as the crime of cowardice exists and is present in our system, it is the duty of everyone, including institutions, to respect it. In particular, I would remind you that Article 290 of the Criminal Code protects the parliamentary institution, not individual Members and at the end of the parliamentary term this duty of protection appears particularly strict and binding. In any case, the judgment on guilt or innocence, being simply a condition of processability, will be duly expressed by the only power of the State to which this is recognized, i.e. the judiciary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u154	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u157	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I would just like to add one element. You did not have the pleasure of voting on me, despite the fact that the election committee had decided, with the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group, that I should have gone on trial for a statement that I had made outside Parliament that reflected things I had already said in Parliament as Minister and as a Member of Parliament. The Junta established this because, since the words I had used outside were not exactly the same as those I had used in Parliament and because the Constitutional Court states that if any of us speaks outside the Parliament must be judged by the ordinary judiciary, the 5 Star Movement Group said that it did not go into the substance of what Senator Giovanardi had said, but that as a Member of Parliament Senator Giovanardi would have to go to answer the magistrates and that they would, in the trial, determine whether the things he had said were offensive or not. The plaintiff himself then withdrew the complaint because he realized that it was unfounded. So I would like to ask you and Senator Buccarella: do parliamentarians, if they speak outside Parliament, in a political forum, in a door-to-door, in a party demonstration and say something disrespectful, have to be tried; instead, if the magistrates use those expressions against Parliament, should they not be allowed to proceed against them? I would like to understand the logic behind this, because I believe that respect is due to the magistrates, to the parliamentarians and to all the institutions and cannot be used, Mr Buccarella, double standards.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u160	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the authorisation and I also explain why we are doing so firmly. Those who speak to you, back in 1999, as humble and simple mayor of Aulla, had an open file for cowardice to the Constitution. The crime he had committed had been denounced by 76 MPs of the then Democratic Party, former Communist Party, because as a member of the City Council I dared to give honorary citizenship to Bettino Craxi and bring it to life. Obviously then the file was closed, because the Government of Alema, then, had offered the funerals of State and, at that point, the prosecutor, although having opened the file of vilipendio, said that, if the State offered the funerals of State, it was well legitimate for a City Council to confer the honorary citizenship and for its mayor to bring it to him. This is to say that a file was opened on an administrator, a mayor, because it represented an institution, based on the article on the cowardice (which in any case had not been committed, because then in the trial we defended ourselves and there was the filing, which means absolution, since we had done something right). The same goes for a magistrate who allows to put on Facebook an image depicting the middle finger raised connected to the Italian flag and to write a dear greeting to our beloved parliamentarians by all of us Italians, replacing them, therefore, by a person who is part of a constitutionally codified institution. I believe that the Council for the Authorisations to proceed is perfectly right, and our entire Group will vote in favour of the opinion it has expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u163	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, on this request too we shall vote against the rapporteur's suggestion, which in this case allows me to clarify a number of issues. First of all, Dr. Sabrina Angelico is not a magistrate, he is an administrative manager. I would like to put this particular affair to the attention of the Senate, because I would not want to get past the sense of ridicule. I would like to make a legal point. The authorization to proceed with which we are debating is a condition of procedure as well as, mutatis mutandis, the complaint. So, to understand: what is the complaint, for example, for the crime of defamation? It means that the party deemed to be offended makes an overall legal assessment in order to ask the court to proceed with the punishment of the alleged party responsible. This is the criminal trial situation. We are asked whether, in this situation, as in the previous one, the Senate, as an offended party, feels it is necessary to ask to proceed with the punishment. Therefore, false schemes are the ones for which it is said that we evaluate only the processability, without going into the matter, because the Senate, when authorizing this request, asks for the trial and punishment of the person who considers guilty, obviously and rightly in the presence of evidence. This is therefore the procedural ritual fact. I was talking about a sense of ridicule. We risk, as Senate and as Parliament, being flooded with messages and posts on social networks. I remember what the situation is: the presence of a medium finger raised and a phrase that we have heard many times - and we will have heard much worse - that is considered vile, defamatory: "a dear greeting to our beloved parliamentarians, by all of us Italians, with that representation. Try to imagine what will happen today or tomorrow: the Senate risks being flooded with thousands, indeed millions of these fingers raised for such a story. That's why I say we don't get past the sense of ridicule and let's go back to assessing what is this crime of cowardice that we always considered out of history and consider whether we should engage in a criminal trial for these events. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) (Signing with the middle finger.) Go do it to a magistrate like this!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u166	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I had expressed some concern in the Junta about such an important measure, such as the authorization to proceed, in relation to this public official of the Ministry of Justice. However, my colleagues have convinced me of one point: this is not the case, as in the previous case, of any citizen. These are public officials with high responsibilities: in the previous case, a magistrate; in this case, the manager of a judicial office (if I remember correctly, that of Catania) and the prosecution was carried out not through a lawsuit, but an initiative of the office, the competent one, that is the attorney of Catania. Therefore, the investigative magistrate has raised the problem of a criminally relevant activity by a public official, who - I repeat here - is not the same as other cases. The ability to assess facts and behaviour, as well as their relevance to the criminal code, is normal for a public official working in the field of justice. So, there is awareness of the act. It is still a medium finger raised towards the sky (which happens for millions of cases on the net), but the scope is not the same as that of any citizen who, after a day of stressful work, puts himself on the keyboard and raises his finger towards the sky with some unpleasant comment. Here there is a problem of the democratic culture of our public officials, who, with these attitudes, demonstrate the absolute lack of respect for the constitutional institutions and the representatives of the Italian people. [[Comments from the Group Art.1-MDP-LEU]] We are delegated by the Italian people to do what we do. They, in this specific case, have assumed the responsibility of affirming unpleasant things on behalf of the Italian people and, in this specific case, this delegation do not have it. I therefore believe that, as Mr Cucca rightly pointed out earlier, we must arrive at a place where we begin to put the dots back on the ground as appropriate. There is a judicial authority that must express itself on certain acts that it is called upon to judge. If there is a conflict problem, you raise it before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u169	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that the debate has stimulated many positions, which I have followed. The last one really makes my heart bleed. A colleague who has so far spent a great deal of money on the values of guaranteeing and resisting the unruly actions of the judiciary, today utters words of utmost trust in the Attorney General of Catania, as if the question is again to fall into the communicative and political trap of the contrast between politics and the judiciary. Gentlemen, this has nothing to do with this. I now turn to Senator Palma, who is not here now, but I think he will read my speech. Mr President, I have to say something about this. You may notice that when we talked about the other document, relating to Dr. Robledo, I did not make any comments regarding the fact that he is a magistrate. The same reasons must also be borne in mind with regard to the document now under consideration, which concerns a citizen, who is a public official and not a magistrate. I am truly sorry for those who have defended the values of guaranteeing in such a noble way so far in this House. Today we see following in a ridiculous way the hypothesis of subsistence of a crime of cowardice for a post on a social media depicting an average finger with the written: A warm greeting to our beloved parliamentarians by all of us Italians. In the end, it is not even the offense, as we are talking about irony or sarcasm of a post, among the billions of posts existing. Mr President, the news is full of cases of prominent politicians with their middle finger raised. If I write on a search engine the words 'average text', the internet shows, for example, the photo of a colleague of yours, Vice President of this Assembly who not long ago had the opportunity to express his disdain and disdain towards protesters, citizens and journalists who were under Montecitorio. (Senator Buccarella shows the screen of a laptop at the Assembly depicting images). I also see the current leader of the party, to whom Senator Palma, I believe, still belongs, Berlusconi. Also there I see photographs and portraits with the middle finger. Maybe those expressions were not addressed to a constitutional body and therefore we are outside the scope of Article 290 of the penal code, but here, gentlemen, I believe that there is a real risk of being ridiculed if the House were to approve the Junta's proposal to grant authorisation which, as was rightly mentioned, is in fact equivalent to a sort of complaint. It is as if we, as Senate, felt offended by the post of a Sicilian citizen and wanted to sue her. Here - I repeat - we will open a gap that will lead us to the sad and gloomy dissolution of the principle of responsibility, respect and good repute of a parliamentary institution. For Christ's sake, we do not fall into this trap, nor do we intend to fall into the trap of the alleged conflict between the judiciary and politics, which has absolutely nothing to do with it and I want this to be clear, even in response to what was the subject of Senator Palma's intervention. For this reason I announce the 5 Star Movement's vote against the document in question. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u172	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, I am stealing two minutes from this House. I understand that we are all tired, we expect the return of the budget law, then the holidays and the return home. But let us be careful not to make an unforgivable mistake. We cannot be so careful and so concerned about the fate of any Member for whom authorisation has been sought and then be so light when it comes to pursuing a person who is outside Parliament. As you know, I am among those who have defended the Constitution strenuously and since that was the context, I have also defended the permanence of this Senate and I am, all in all, proud of it. But let us be careful not to overdo it. The controversy against caste is also distorting, but it expresses a deep disappointment of a part of the country, because politics cannot answer the real questions of citizenship. The attitudes that I have heard in this House today, even by people, by senators, from whom I would not have expected, are really caste attitudes. Please, let's stop for a moment before we do something stupid under Christmas. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u175	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have already had the opportunity to speak on this subject at the European Council. We have heard the precedents that have happened in the past and I am of the opinion that it would normally be appropriate to have a certain wide sleeve on the part of the Senate vis-à-vis citizens who, by expressing their views, may even do so in a heavy way, in accordance, moreover, with many manifestations of this kind of thinking. Here, however, we are faced not with a general claim, not with a general one and perhaps possibly with a polite opposition to the so-called political class (an entity that I do not believe exists), but with an attack on the institutions as such. The post is for a person who plays a delicate role, works in judicial offices, has extremely delicate papers in his hand, which relate to life, rights and the freedom of persons. This is what we are talking about in the courts, and that is why the judiciary must enjoy the prestige and respect it deserves. This person, who is among other things a public employee and has taken an oath of fidelity to the institutions, then carries out this offense and it is not because a certain law has passed, that the individual citizen may have every right not to love, nor because the Members have done this or have done the other one: it is rather an offense to Parliament as such. Parliament, we should remember this at least when we are in it, is not a harp, because in all democratic countries, where there is democracy and freedom, there is Parliament: there are countries that have Parliament and do not have democracy and freedom because it is a fake Parliament, but there is no country that has democracy and freedom that does not have Parliament. Therefore, when an employee of the State, moreover in an office of particular delicacy, carries out such a behaviour, we have a duty to ask for this and not because we are part of it - let us forget to be part of it - but because Parliament embodies democracy. It is here that democracy takes place, because otherwise it would remain a word, although written on a very prestigious Charter, but still a word. So we must not forgive because we are magnanimous about this and other kinds of insults. When this is done in a general way towards Parliament, because it is Parliament, not because the people who are part of it can be unpathetic to this or that, we have not the possibility, but the duty to defend Parliament. Seventy or eighty years ago people, Italians and even foreigners died in this country to save democracy and freedom. It cost them a lot of money; it costs us a vote to defend democracy. In fact, if we think that it is possible to attack Parliament as such, I do not understand why there are those who want to make special laws against those who in some way refer to fascism. Is it more dangerous to have a bottle with the duke's face on the label or someone who says that Parliament should be insulted because it is Parliament? We therefore have a duty to defend our institution. I remember, among other things, that this person risks nothing more than a maximum of 5,000 euros fine: I would say that there are people who do much less and who suffer much more serious penalties. It costs us little, it costs little even to the person concerned. Let us remember that democracy is important and cannot be attacked as such. There is every right to criticize individual acts, even Parliament as a whole, but not because it is Parliament, whereas this is what this lady has done.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u178	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say briefly that this House has absolutely nothing to say about it. Those who hypothesized the existence of a crime may be the magistrate and we are simply giving permission to the magistrate to check whether the crime is there or not. We confine ourselves to this and, in agreeing with the reasons expressed by Senator Malan just now, I think it is right to vote in favour of the proposal in this case too.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u179	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, previously made by the Sensor Buccarella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization to proceed to trial with Dr. Sabrina Angelico. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u182	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Mr President, I would like to point out that the electronic system did not take my vote against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u183	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for a resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Stefano Esposito, transmitted by the Turin Court - sixth criminal section of the Constitution. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has proposed by a majority to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Esposito constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Fucksia, if she wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u184	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report by the Junta, which has already been printed and distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u185	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u188	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I declare the 5 Star Movement voting against the proposal made in the document, according to which the opinions expressed by Senator Stefano Esposito and referred to in the document would fall under the hypothesis referred to in Article 68 (1) of the Constitution. Here too, and perhaps I will repeat it as a reference to the next document, the considerations made earlier apply. Beyond the legitimate demands and expectations of every single senator, who wants to apply an institute that we recognize and respect, that of the insindacability for votes and opinions expressed even extra-moenia, the impression is that very often we are shielded in an instrumental way in order to exercise our freedom of opinion, which must always be recognized, even beyond what it would be legitimate to do in the fulfilment of a parliamentary mandate conducted according to criteria of balance, of calmness, but also of determination against some initiatives, as in the case at hand. Therefore, the vote of our Group will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u189	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, previously made by the Sensor Buccarella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Esposito constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u190	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Paola Taverna, transmitted by the court of Rome - court of the judge for preliminary investigations. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has proposed by a majority to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Paola Taverna do not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore do not fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u191	Mr President, I refer to the written report, which has already been printed and distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u192	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u195	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I was the rapporteur on this case. I believe, and I have done so throughout my political history, that when you judge a case it must not be dealt with in such a way as to discriminate between majority and opposition, between sympathy and antipathy. With the 5 Star Movement Group, as is well known, I have never had relations other than conflict. But when I found myself reading the report and seeing that the things that Senator Taverna was accused of had previously been said in Parliament and that the themes of the Mafia in Rome, of the Mafia Capital, the assessments of past administrations or the past mayors were largely covered by questions, questions and speeches made in this House, just like those of Senator Stefano Esposito or other colleagues for whom this principle was rightly invoked, I said that the same rule had to be applied to Senator Taverna as had been applied to all colleagues in this legislature. He exercised his right by expressing an opinion which he had already expressed clearly in Parliament, so I honestly did not understand why, with the two abstention votes of the 5 Star Movement, the proposal (which had six votes in favour, four against by the PD and two abstentions) was rejected. I ask all my colleagues in conscience why a colleague of the 5 Star Movement, who is totally covered by the statements made in Parliament, must be given permission to proceed and his views expressed here must be declared as bespoke by the judiciary, while those of the members of the Democratic Party who have done the same we have given the unmistakable. I shall therefore vote against the rapporteur's proposal, because I believe that she is entitled to the same constitutional guarantees as all other Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u198	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, I am frankly surprised at the diversified discussion that appears to be being made by the Senate Assembly between the previous case, which concerned Senator Stefano Esposito, and what we are discussing at the moment, which concerns Senator Paola Taverna. It is true that Senator Giovanardi, when he was rapporteur and during the work of the Junta, had proposed to declare the existence of insincidentity, and it is equally true that this proposal had not reached the majority simply for a game of voting in favour, against and abstention, which resulted in a spurious majority, essentially that which led to the absence of opinions expressed in the context of the functions, pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution, those of Senator Taverna. Instead, I believe that these statements are widely covered by Article 68 of the Constitution, precisely because they refer to historical, procedural, political and social facts that have been widely discussed not only in the country, not only in judicial rooms, but also in this Senate, by Senator Taverna herself. By the way, I certainly agreed with your statements on this matter. However, she complained - and this is disputed - that no one spoke of the capital mafia at the very moment when Buzzi sang. The sentences were basically as follows: money for election campaigns to parties, mafia-political dinners, tips and bribes in exchange for rigged contracts and decisions in favour of those who paid. That was politics in Rome. Buzzi sings and mute newspapers. I do not know why it should be put on trial for statements which I believe most of this Senate shares and we shall therefore vote against this proposal from the rapporteur to consider that the statements of Senator Taverna do not correspond to the parliamentary functions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u201	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, I believe that our Group will deal with this issue in a consistent manner with all the votes cast on permits to proceed. Among other things, it is my personal story - I heard Mr Buccarella first who wondered where the guarantors had gone - and the flower I flaunt is not only an object, but it is an ideology of which my political action is always imbued. Therefore, in line with our behaviour over all these years, we will vote against the opinion that the rapporteur has just explained to us, because we believe that Senator Taverna has expressed her views in full swing of the guarantees provided by Article 68 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u204	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, it is easy to imagine the very high risk of exploitation that the political position of the 5 Star Movement, in relation to this document, runs the risk of having to face, well aware of the exploitation in bad faith that yesterday, today and tomorrow, is done in public communication when it wants to attack a political force. This would probably be normal if we were in a normal country with normal information. Taking a very brief look at the substance of the report, the position of Senator Taverna, with reference to the work of the Junta, was very clear: Senator Taverna produced the documentation on the amount of interventions and questions she presented on Mafia capitale, represented the situation and referred to the jurisprudence and assessments of the Junta, without wanting to influence its determinations in any way. Similarly, we members of the Council, myself and my colleagues, in the vote on the document proposed by Senator Giovanardi, abstained without even knowing what the final outcome would be. The outcome was what we all know and that made the first proposal of the Junta to be rejected and now, with the signature of Senator Cucca, it is reproposed as a non-recognition of the granting of inindacability. We simply address this issue, although we are aware that any reasonable position on the subject - we are not so naive as not to understand it - would also be the subject of an unprecedented media and political attack, not moving away from our positions, which - I repeat - recognize and respect the institute of unindicability. With reference to the proposal of the Junta, our vote will be in favour, because Senator Taverna in this case has absolutely nothing to fear from a possible criminal procedure, because on the existence of the crime there would only be a laugh on it. This serves not to be able to support - I already see the headlines - that the triggers renounce the role of parliamentarians and a prerogative that has been conceived according to very respectable criteria that must guarantee the freedom of political action of any parliamentarians and of any political force, but precisely to highlight the great hypocrisy that once again - and today we have the definitive confirmation of the end of the legislature - reigns in the relationship between the exercise of a parliamentary mandate and the assumption of own responsibilities. [[Applause from Senators Bottici and Tavern]] In fact, the next document that we will examine - I hope the last one, Mr President - will once again see my colleague Stefano Esposito, whom I esteem and with whom, even at the human level, we have a very quiet relationship, invoke the exception of inconvenience in the criminal proceedings that sees him involved: it is his right and the Assembly will pronounce itself. In the case of the document under consideration, the vote of the 5 Star Movement will be in favour of the Junta's proposal to send a signal that we have tried to express in five years of legislature and, last, this morning of votes, having recalled the principle that respect, good repute and prestige of republican institutions and constitutional rank, including those of individual parliamentarians, must be conquered not by instrumentally using, in favour of or to the detriment of other members of other political forces, the parliamentary instruments guaranteeing the freedom of opinion and political action of parliamentarians. With the utmost consistency that we can express, without naivety, but without hypocrisy, we will vote in favour of this document. [[Applause from Senator Marton]] Mr Manconi (PD). Enough with the hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u207	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I welcome the fact that the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the Junta's proposal, although I remind the Senators of the 5 Star Movement that the vote we are going to express at the moment concerns the evaluation of the facts and, by reason of the evaluation of the facts, the assessment of the existence or not of the so-called insincability. It would be bad to distort this vote for a completely different purpose, which would be that, as Senator Buccarella clearly said, not to expose himself to an instrumental controversy with reference to their positions on privileges, caste and anything else. Exactly the same would be the case if each of us had to vote not with regard to the facts, but with regard to the political position that the person concerned expresses in this House. Having said that, I will personally vote against the Junta's proposal and I want to explain why. I would like to point out to the senators that we are voting on the proposal that includes the explanatory statement, that there is a part of the explanatory statement that I do not only disagree with, but that I consider absolutely dangerous. In the explanatory statement it is said, basically, that it is true that Senator Taverna dealt with the theme in 2014 and 2015, but that the requirement of contextuality would fail as the indicted post would be 2017. This poses a first problem, that is, as long as the statements made in this House, in the exercise of their functions, can spell out the subject for the statements made subsequently and I believe that this is really difficult to determine. Moreover, what leaves me very perplexed in the report is that, even if I wanted to adhere to the temporal contextuality of the declarations, perhaps the Junta should have focused its attention on the fact that the post is absolutely contextual to the ongoing criminal proceedings on the capital mafia and to the statements of Buzzi, which evidently contextualizes, regardless of the original statements, what Senator Taverna intended to formulate in her post. I therefore find this to be a very dangerous reason, which I do not think is in line with the case-law, and that is why I will personally vote against the Junta's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u208	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u210	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I am only speaking to clarify a few passages. I have never requested Article 68 of the Constitution from the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. [[Applause from Senators Donno and Morra]] I've never been reached by a process. I have known that I have a proceeding in progress, thanks to the Junta, to which the Public Prosecutor's Office of Rome addressed itself directly, before informing me, to know whether or not the case in question falls from the point of view of inindacability. I only provided the Junta with what I was asked to do, i.e. if, during my parliamentary activity, I had dealt with the case indicted. I remember that this is a post immediately following Buzzi's statement, the testimonies, in which Buzzi specifically speaks of Marino, Poletti and I don't even remember who else, but that the press is silent. I don't even mean... But these are evaluations that will be made separately. For a question of coherence, also because I am firmly convinced that it is not even fair to avoid being subjected to a judgment as happens to all citizens, and for an exclusive question of respect for the institutional bodies, since here so much has been said, I have not at all conditioned the Junta by declaring that I avail myself of this option or not. I have said that I recognise a competent body which will be able to assess my situation in full freedom. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] Now, I take you out of the embarrassment, thanking - I must say - the intellectual honesty of a part of this House and shamefully deprecating what you are demonstrating, doing a discrimination solely for political belonging or perhaps exclusively because there are not sufficiently nice [[Applause from the M5S Group]] to make an assessment totally averted from any logic by which you judge your peers, against me and against you. But let's make a difference. Let us also be clear about citizens. Thank you all and with this I wish you a Merry Christmas. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u211	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, previously made by the Sensor Buccarella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Paola Taverna do not constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore do not fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Manconi (PD). Vote for the Tavern, despite the Tavern.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u212	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings against Senator Stefano Esposito, transmitted by the Turin Court - sixth criminal section. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council has proposed by a majority to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Esposito constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Alicata, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u213	Mr President, I refer to the written report and its conclusions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u214	As you are not included in the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u217	[[Brusio]] Colleagues, a moment of patience. This is the last topic we have to deal with because the next one is not negotiable. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, this is an important day for the Senate, also for the outcome of these votes. In the House I was President of the Assembly of Elections and Immunities for two years and I know how important it is to Members of Parliament. I am not talking about the old Article 68, which has been repealed. Many people do not remember it anymore, but Members can be tried as all citizens, more, can be arrested. Alas, I did the other day the case of our colleague who has been in prison for 16 months without the judiciary having yet decided whether this is legitimate. The Member of Parliament has remained a shield, i.e. to be able to exercise his parliamentary mandate freely. Speaking of Senator Stefano Esposito, who is from another political side, fellow senators, if the parliamentary activity takes place, as Senator Razzi (who jokes), in the sense "dear friend, mind your own business," and therefore if the parliamentarians come here simply to care for their interests, this is not the function of the parliamentarians. Senator Stefano Esposito fights in the front line, in a ludicrous and difficult situation, has as his weapon that of the word to defend his positions, and is the subject of repeated complaints. The reflection that I have done a thousand times - I tell my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who oppose Article 68 - is: when a Member has one, two, three, five, ten complaints from strong powers, associations, banks because he does his job and exposes himself, who pays the costs of the proceedings? Who pays for the family's concerns? Who does not risk being paralyzed in his parliamentary activity by the threat of being continuously under trial? We are talking about the possibility of being free to be parliamentarians, of exposing ourselves when citizens cannot be exposed. If this courage that Members - or some of them - have to stand up for difficult causes, to clash with limpid circles, even fails to find the cover of Article 68 and Members must be under continuous trial and then spend their lives in the courts to defend themselves for having had the courage to make public complaints, it is clear that the parliamentary function would be totally emptied. I therefore do not understand the position of the PD in the previous vote or that of the 5 Star Movement. I would once again like to call my colleagues on the need to safeguard the only prerogative that we have: the magistrates can arrest us, keep us in prison for years and condemn us, while a Member has the only freedom of speech. First a colleague recalled that on this same day, many years ago, the Constitution was approved, in which the constituent Fathers inserted those parliamentary prerogatives precisely because they came out of fascism and for forty years - the left knows it - center-left governments have always covered the parliamentarians of the left, even when they were accused of common crimes against public order because they always prevailed - said Togliatti, Pajetta, said it, the greats of the PC of that time - the sacred role of the parliamentarians when exercising his rights. I would therefore very much like to vote in favour of the indisputability of Senator Stefano Esposito's views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u218	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Buccarella, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Esposito constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate is not a quorum. I would have suspended until 4 p.m., but fearing that after the situation is worse, I will suspend the sitting until 1 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.32 a.m. and resumed at 13.56 a.m.) I put to the vote the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to decide that the statements made by Senator Stefano Esposito constitute opinions expressed by a member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u219	The next item is the debate on the proposal by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to raise a conflict of powers against the court of Verona in connection with criminal proceedings against Senator Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco. The relevant report has not yet been submitted, but the examination of the proposal has been postponed to another sitting. This part of our work has therefore come to an end. Thank God for having a Vice President like I did! [[Laughter.]] I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. [[Applause. The sitting was suspended at 13.57 p.m. and resumed at 16.04 p.m.]] Colleagues, since we are still waiting for the message of transmission of the budget law, which has to come to us from the House, and as we expect it to arrive within an hour, we will resume the sitting at 5.30 p.m. to take note of the transmission of the budget law and initiate the subsequent procedure with the Commissions and with the House. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.35 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that Senators Raffaella Bellot, Patrizia Bisinella, Francesco Bruni, Luigi D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Salvatore Tito Di Maggio, Pietro Liuzzi, Emanuela Munerato, Luigi Perrone, Lucio Rosario Filippo Tarquinio and Vittorio Zizza have declared that they constitute the parliamentary group called "We with Italy" and that they have assigned the office of President of the Group to Senator Lucio Rosario Filippo Tarquinio and Vice President to Senator Patrizia Bisinella. Therefore, Senators Bellot, Bisinella and Munerato cease to belong to the Mixed Group and Senators Bruni, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Di Maggio, Liuzzi, Perrone, Tarquinio and Zizza cease to belong to the GAL Group. After this announcement, I say that the message has not yet been received from the House of Deputies. I therefore suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.36 p.m. and resumed at 6.37 p.m.) The session is resumed. Colleagues, I suspend the sitting again until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.37 p.m. and resumed at 7.07 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the House of Deputies has transmitted the bill containing: "State budget for the financial year 2018 and multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2018-2020" (2960-B), already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Long live applause]] Colleagues, it looks like I scored a goal. I'm sorry, but I had nothing to do with it. The measure was referred to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and for its opinion to all other Commissions, as well as to the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs. Commissions are authorised to convene immediately. The reports to the Budget Committee will have to be sent in time so that it can report to the Assembly within the time limits set by the Conference of Leaders, which is immediately convened. I therefore suspend the sitting which will resume the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which will set the time for the continuation of the work. (The sitting was suspended at 19.09 a.m. and resumed at 19.42 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has taken note of the timing of the examination of the draft budget law, which is thus established. The Commission's consultative reports will have to be submitted to the 5th Permanent Commission in time for it to report to the Assembly from 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. The amendments to the House will have to be tabled by 9 a.m. tomorrow. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting also includes the following items already provided for in the current timetable: election of the Councils of Presidents of Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and Tax Justice, the Junta's document on the conflict of attribution concerning criminal proceedings against Senator Bonfrisco, the draft law on citizenship and the prevention of violent jihadist extremism.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u225	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to subscribe to all the first-signed amendments by Mr Calderoli, which have been tabled on the citizenship bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u228	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I also ask my colleague Mr Tosato to subscribe to all the first-signed amendments by Mr Calderoli on the draft law on citizenship. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u231	Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Mr President, I would like to ask you, in accordance with Rule 55, last paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, to turn the items on the agenda over to the ius soli, before the measure on the prevention of jihadist extremism. I would ask you to vote on this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have already had a vote when we approved the timetable. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We did it. There is no new fact. We voted on that reversal and the House said no. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). When was the reversal voted? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. With the Gasparri Presidency, I think. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). That's another proposal. There's a new one right now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This reversal has already been voted on when proposals to amend the timetable have been made. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). At the end of each sitting (this is a new sitting), it is possible to request that the items on the agenda be reversed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is But there must be urgent situations, which the Presidency does not yet see. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). But the House must consider these urgent matters! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, the Presidency will assess you. Tomorrow, at the beginning of the sitting, you may request that the agenda be reversed. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). I am asking you now, pursuant to an article which does not provide for me to do so tomorrow morning, but it provides for me to do so this evening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This evening there are no such conditions of urgency. If there were tomorrow... CALDEROLI (Misto-LpSP). But do you at least want to verify them, Mr. President? It's news from news agencies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The press agencies are still not the conditions for determining the urgency. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). But do you want the attack to be in this House before you can decide? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But what attack? Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). The jihadist attack. And the prevention of such events is our task, putting before a bill that contrasts the attack with the fact of favoring it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I repeat, Senator Calderoli, that tomorrow you can ask for the order of business to be reversed without motivating it, because, as you know, tomorrow, at the beginning of the sitting, you can ask for the order of business to be reversed. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). It is also possible to do so at the end of the sitting, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, if there are conditions. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). We shall then refer the matter back to the Budget Committee this night.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u232	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u234	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to endorse all of Senator Calderoli's amendments to the citizenship bill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask Senator Calderoli if he accepts this subscription request. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u237	PEGORER (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, with reference to the item on the agenda for the vote on the election of the members of the Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and the tax justice Councils, I would ask you, please, if the Senate can be able to assess any lists of candidates, including their curricula. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Pegorer, this is not foreseen and, however, the names of the candidates have not yet arrived for the purpose of the composition of the lists. Today, then, there are so many open sources that resumes can be retrieved quickly enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u240	AMIDEI (Mist). Mr President, I also ask you to subscribe to Senator Calderoli's amendments to the citizenship bill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask Senator Calderoli if he accepts this subscription request. Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. Great success for your amendments, Senator Calderoli. Mr Manconi (PD). So scared!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u243	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, let me just make one point. I refer to Mr Pegorer's speech on the election of the members of the Administrative Justice, Court of Auditors and Tax Justice Councils. Given that there has not been a vote in the House of Deputies just in the absence of these lists, it would be madness - I believe - to vote in one House and not in another. Mine is a wish. In fact, if there is no maximum sharing between the various parliamentary groups and between the House and the Senate, I do not think it appropriate to proceed with this vote. It would, in my opinion, be absurd to proceed in one House and not in the other, since the House of Deputies has not been provided for today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Moronese, we will evaluate when and if these names will come in to compose lists.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u244	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-921.ana.u245	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.50 p.m.
