ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 30 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, yesterday afternoon a vile attack hit the city of St. Petersburg, where an explosive device was detonated inside the subway, causing, according to the latest data, a balance of 14 deaths and about 50 injuries. The dramatic images reported by the press have reminded us of the scenes of similar heinous actions, which have tragically affected the continent of Europe in recent months. Think of the bloody episodes in Paris, Brussels, Nice, Berlin, Istanbul and, last but not least, the bombing near Westminster, London, on March 22nd. The list is of course not exhaustive and includes all the episodes qualifyable in this profile. This is yet another episode of a series of criminal acts, which, although not derived from a concerted and united direction, are nevertheless aimed at undermining the values of freedom, democracy and peaceful coexistence of peoples, cornerstones of Western democracies, as well as foundations of the rule of law. Faced with these acts of barbarism, the republican institutions, Parliament and the Government in the first place, and all political forces must persist in strengthening and identifying political and regulatory instruments aimed at both repression and the prevention of terrorist acts. They are also coming in these hours from Syria terrifying news about air raids conducted with the use of chemical weapons on the city of Khan Shaykhun, which would have caused dozens of deaths, including numerous children. Unfortunately, the death toll seems to be set to rise. This is also a terrible news, because the use of toxic gases, especially against civilian populations, cannot but be considered, in its lewdness, as war crimes. Of course, the Presidency will follow closely the development of these tragic events and, in renewing this commitment and expressing the deep condolences and sincere participation of the Senate of the Republic to the pain of the Russian people and the Syrian people, as well as the closeness to all the people involved in the attacks and to the families of the victims, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u7	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you the memory and sadness of the disappearance of Giancarlo Lombardi, which took place on 31 March in Milan. He was 79 years old. I hope that in speaking I will not veil the long friendship that I have had the privilege of weaving with him for almost thirty years. Many people in this House have known him, have esteemed him, and they know that for him friendship was made of demanding frankness and sometimes burber, but that he was above all a clean feeling, never interested or of convenience. It was the choice to share a path to reach a goal together. Giancarlo Lombardi was Minister of Education from 1995 to 1996 with the Dini Government. He was also a deputy, elected in the 13th legislature on the list of the Italian People's Party, and was a member of the Margaret. He was an entrepreneur, president of Federtessile, vice president of Confindustria with delegation to education, member of numerous boards of directors of companies, associations, bodies, universities LUISS and Cattolica and, last, of the College of Milan, which had helped to found. Presenting himself was defined first of all as a scout; as he said: Scouting is the second most important thing in my life after the family. She had three children, Andrea, Marco and Paolo, and a life companion, Ninetta, of extraordinary finesse, always at her side with courage and with a smile, even in the most difficult and dark moments of their existence. Among these, the death of his son Andrea was certainly the most tragic. So first of all, a scout... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u8	Sorry, for those who did not understand it, it is a commemoration: a moment of sensitivity would be necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u9	COCIANCICH (PD). Giancarlo Lombardi promoted and realized the merger between the Association of Catholic Men's Scouts (ASCI) and the Women's Scouts (AGI), giving life, in 1974, to the Association of Italian Catholic Guides and Scouts (AGESCI). A fusion that at that time caused the nose to twist to some exponents of the Catholic world and ecclesial hierarchies, raising criticism and reservations even harsh. Giancarlo firmly defended that choice, claiming, in line with the Second Vatican Council, the sphere of autonomy of lay people and believers: adult Christians. In reality it was the courage to open a road, to stand on the border and to help change the custom of our society and the way of being laity in the Church. He was also president of AGESCI from 1976 to 1982, when he saw the doubling of the members, who soon became almost 200,000, confirming the happiness of his intuition. For many years he carried out training activities with the school camps in the beloved Val Codera, above Colico, a place of wild beauty, theatre of the businesses of the Eagles randages, those scout groups that had continued the activities in clandestine form during the years of fascism and that had accompanied many wanted, many Jews, many persecuted politicians to repair in Switzerland. Giancarlo was rightly considered the best heir and interpreter of that experience of freedom and commitment. Combining meticulous seriousness with commitments and a free spirit, a utopian and even a little rebellious vision of life has been one of the characteristics that have made him so loved by generations of young scouts and not only, who have trained at his school. He wrote in the magazine "RS-Servire" for many years, about the courage of utopia: The word "utopia" does not mean at all a beautiful thing but impossible or even worse an unrealizable and irresponsible dream, but on the contrary it wants to indicate a goal to be sought and pursued because possible, of a path perhaps difficult but feasible. After graduating in engineering at the Politecnico di Milano, he went to Africa for a period of volunteering, where he met and collaborated with Albert Schweitzer, the famous Alsatian doctor, Nobel Peace Prize winner, who had founded a leprosy treatment centre in Lambaréné. After returning to Italy, he first went to work at the Olivetti and then at the family company, the Filatura di Grignasco, which developed and made it grow to become a group with over 1,500 employees and 150 billion lire of turnover. He was considered an idealist entrepreneur, engaged in the protection of the environment, in the renewal of the sectors of purification of the working water, industrial relations, relations with the staff, the introduction of avant-garde computer science. Above all - and he was also criticized for this - he put at the centre the worker, his dignity, the strengthening of his skills and his training, identifying in the work a factor of promotion and development of the person. The contrast to school dispersal and the interrelationship between study and work as a key to the maturation of the person were also at the heart of his school reform project, to whose preparation he devoted great energies, passion and intelligence, and which he began to realize during the ministerial experience of the Dini Government. With a rather unusual choice even in our day, he refused the position of Minister of University and Research (at that time distinct from that of public education), offered to him in the Prodi Government, because he did not seem serious to occupy a place for which he did not feel adequately prepared. He lived with a feeling of great bitterness that he could not follow up the school reform for which he had spent so much. Today, however, many of his intuitions and ideas have however established themselves and represent the best of the innovative experiences that are experienced in our country. Giancarlo Lombardi was a man of great culture and vast interests and curiosities, obsessed with putting quality and attention even in small things (the little things that sometimes do everything) and trying to live with great uprightness. In this he was demanding with himself, as well as with others, especially those whom he loved most. Mr President, I recall that Giancarlo Lombardi visited me shortly after the beginning of the parliamentary term and we sat in the corridor behind the House, where there are blue chairs. I thought he wanted to talk to me about politics, but instead he came to tell me that you never have to be sharp, not even with the political opponents, and to warn me not to let myself be tempted by the frivolities of Roman life. Giancarlo Lombardi was a great friend of the community of Bose and its founder, Brother Enzo Bianchi. He was interested in ecumenism and interreligious dialogue, he knew the works of Karl Barth and loved to quote Martin Buber. Above all, he loved Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the German Protestant theologian hanged in the Flossenbürg camp in April 1945. Bonhoeffer wrote: "Not of genes, nor of cynics, nor of people who despise men, nor of refined tacticians we need, but of open men, simple, rights. Will there have remained so much strength of inner resistance (...), so ruthless sincerity towards ourselves that we can find again the path of simplicity and uprightness? It's smarter to be pessimistic: you forget disappointments, you stand in the face of people without compromising. So optimism has gone out of fashion with the clever. In its essence, optimism is a force of hope where others have resigned, the strength to hold their heads high even when everything seems to fail, the strength to hold the shots, the strength that never leaves the future to the opponent, but claims it for itself. These are words that Giancarlo has quoted many times and above all testified with his existence. Larger than life, the Anglo-Saxons would say, that is, bigger than life. This was Giancarlo Lombardi, a man who kept his promise to leave the world a little better than he found it. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Misto-SI-SEL groups, Senator Carraro and the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u12	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, as you are well aware, this morning the sitting did not take place because the quorum was not available four times in a row and, therefore, the motions on agriculture could not be discussed. I believe that this is something that needs to be pointed out. In fact, apart from the fact that there were motions on Down's syndrome, the examination of which has yet to be completed, the motions on agriculture are added to the list of unfinished topics. The Community's agricultural policy (CAP) was under consideration, in which it is necessary for Parliament to give political guidelines to the Government in the near future, as the deadlines for its mid-term review are due to expire. There were motions, Mr President, concerning the protection and protection of the national rice market, which is particularly suffering; others concerned the caporalate. I believe that we need to consider both the use of Tuesday morning and the seriousness that this branch of Parliament must put in dealing with these issues. It is not possible that the motions at this moment remain substantially forgotten. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll talk about it in the next group leader. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u15	MANCUSO (AP-CpE). Mr President, I would like to extend to the House our Group's apologies for the absence of the afternoon sitting. At the same time we had a leadership of the party and, in order not to interfere with the work of this House, we wanted to avoid calling for the sitting to be disconcerted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u16	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. No 624, 895, 1020, 2160, 2163, 2175, 2178, 2187, 2196, 2197, 2202, 2547 and 2591 and documents XXII, Nos. 30 and 37. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 30 March the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the joint general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to thank all 17 speakers in the general debate who seem to me to have well summed up the path, the dialectic and the complexity that is leading us to finally adopt this measure. I would therefore like, at this point, as I asked at the last sitting, after thanking everyone, to make some clarifications, additions and specifications with regard to the debate that has developed. I follow the order of intervention from President Carraro, who rightly pointed out that this issue was to be dealt with by Parliament as such, and therefore not with an intercourse with the Government - as on the other hand has occurred - and recalled how the Committee of Inquiry into Banks is a very sensitive issue, citing also President Zanda. Well, I agree with these two approaches; I realize that this delicacy requires very significant attention. Mr Carraro then quoted OECD data, and in particular that the second reason indicated as a weakness in the OECD studies was the weakness of the Italian banking system. So, I think one of the things that we can try to do - and I will try to go back to it by retracing the speeches of other Members - is to use this House to say a word of truth about our banking system. In fact, a form of psychological terrorism that many times, especially foreign sources, have used to generate some confusion has ended up having negative and perverse effects. This is a welcome opportunity to say that, as clearly emerges in the cognitive survey - I will come back later - we have a solid banking system, with some critical elements, and to avoid forms of contagion we have tried to identify a shared path of reform of the banking system that so far has produced some important results. The second part of Senator Carraro's speech referred instead to the need to specify in the text that the Commission's work should have ended by the end of the 17th legislature. It seems to me that I am responding to the request put forward by President Carraro, who was also raised in the speech by Senator Bottici and Senator Tosato, accepting an amendment in this regard, on which I will focus when I have to give my opinion on the amendments. In fact, as I had tried to specify, the fact that I had written within a year was aimed mainly at giving as much time as possible, but it should not have been interpreted as a desire to derogate from the possibility of obtaining serious results. Senator Cappelletti then posed the problem whether it is the policy that controls the banks or whether it is the banks that control the policy. I merely say that I believe that policy must lay down general rules which serve to regulate and not control the banking system. Then when, in the light of this consideration (which I do not agree with), Senator Cappelletti comes to say that Bankitalia is controlled by the same banks that it has to control, let me observe that it does a logical synthesis wrong: we showed it when we dealt with the measure that represented the sale of shares of Bankitalia. One of the things I think is unanimously recognized, both abroad and in Italy, is that the Bank of Italy is an absolutely independent institution. I think it's absolutely wrong to make logical short-circuits with respect to quota ownership. Senator D'Alì then stated that the cognitive investigation, which he had appreciated (and I thank him for this), was excessively benevolent to the supervisory bodies. Well, I would remind you that that cognitive investigation, as we have always said in the Commission, had a mere prodromic value to what would have been the work of the Commission of Inquiry, so there could be no form of early summary of a judgment. I therefore find this remark inappropriate, because this prodromic value was the one that would have allowed us to arrive at the port point, which we are arriving at, and at a later stage we reserve the conclusions with respect to the tasks carried out by the supervisory bodies. Senator Tosato, who has made a long and complex intervention, partly taking up the themes already developed in the Commission, then said that the Commission of Inquiry, although necessary, has come out of time. I could just say that the best is always the enemy of good. In addition, Senator Tosato cited the bank-saving decree of 22 November 2015, claiming that it stipulated that the citizen was the saver. Allow me to say that this is absolutely not the case, but not because I say so. I would remind myself first of all of the conclusions of the first survey. Precisely because I know that Mr Tosato is a careful senator, I would like to remind you not only of the work done in the Commission, but also of the whole discussion that was taking place with regard to the application of the instruments for the interbank deposit protection fund, which was a delicate moment for us in the Commission precisely in view of the debate that was developing with the European dimension at the same time. We were trying to avoid the application of the bail in, which would start on 1 January 2016, and we thought we could apply the funds provided by the interbank Deposit Protection Fund, but they did not allow us to do so. From this point of view, it was revealing the interview conducted by Vestager - a pity that happened four months later - in which the European Commissioner explained that it didn't matter if the funds were public or private for a rescue: instead it mattered on the basis of what rules the money was spent, regardless of whether they were public or private. Perhaps if this revelation had come earlier also the path that led to the rescue of the four banks would have had a slower iter and surely we would not have been chased with pain hypothesis several times changed. (16.54) (The rapporteur was Mr Marino Mauro Maria.) Compared instead to the statement that 2016 has passed with absolutely useless hearings, let me say that I understand the game of the parties, but it seems to me a very ingenious statement both to the auditors and to all the commissioners who have worked hard to achieve this result. With regard to the last point, the one on the definite deadline of the Commission of Inquiry, I have already replied earlier by saying that the text combined the demands arising from Senators Carraro, Tosato and Bottici. I very much appreciated Senator Fornaro's speech: a meticulous speech, as a great expert on the subject as it is and as it has always proved to be in the Commission. I would just like to stress, by agreeing with him, how right he is in saying that Italians are a people of savers and - let me add - we want to defend them. It is precisely for this reason that the other moment that I appreciated your intervention is when you specified that the Commission of Inquiry is needed to clarify, but not from scratch: it is true because, as I said before, the Commission of Inquiry will have a fertile substrate represented by the survey, as evidence of the function carried out by the Commission itself. I also agree with the intervention of Senator Puppato; I particularly liked it when he pointed out that making judgments without studying acts is precisely of a fork state and some of the speeches have reminded us a little. We must have a serious approach, we must do quiet, underground and political work; we must pay attention to external controversy and, as you rightly said, the Commission must not replace the judiciary. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò then made a rather complex intervention, in which I found hints of transcendence that prosaically I have difficulty in reconciling with the immanence proper to this subject. On the other hand, I must say to Senator Bottici that I welcome his correct indication, as I have tried to explain; I acknowledge his total good faith in pointing out the need to close the Commission's work by the 17th legislature, so there is agreement from this point of view. However, it struck me when it said that Italian citizens are not willing to pay for administrators; it is true, but, when we highlight this step, we must recognize that we also clashed with the logic of transition from bail out to bail in. It is in the difficult balance between the non-sacrifice citizen called upon to refuse with state money the damage caused by a private individual and the overcoming of this logic that comes to determine a complex, new balance. There is another subject on which we are prepared to accept the proposed amendments: the senator said that those connected to the banking system cannot be part of the Commission of Inquiry. It is precisely the choice of words, 'who is connected', that gives the sense of a vastness that, in my opinion, would be difficult to chase; finding a more specific wording (so I take into account my willingness to accept the amendments) would avoid involving even those who, perhaps, simply found themselves having a mortgage. In another passage the senator points out how well we know that Consob and Banca d'Italia did not do their duty, partly taking back the hint that Senator D'Alì did. I do not think that we are in a position to express a judgment; there has clearly been a difficult search for a balance between the transparency requirements, projected on the market, of CONSOB's own and the confidentiality requirements of the Bank of Italy in the remaining supervisory functions that touch them on the basis of the division of competences with the ECB. It is clear that the deepening, from this point of view, as Senator Bottici herself teaches, took place precisely on the occasion of the second cognitive survey, in which the difficult positive search for this balance was one of the elements that we tried to explore with greater rigour. Senator Galimberti then referred to 20 billion euros of new debt to give oxygen to the asfittic banks. I think that the government has acted more on the basis of European indications, first of all providing for up to 20 billion and not 20 billion euros; it is true that - I quote the senator - confidence is fragile, it is gained drop by drop, but it is lost to liters, as Sartre said, but precisely because we are trying not to lose it we have acted preventively with the instruments that were provided to us. I then totally agree with Senator Moscardelli's intervention; above all I like it because he succeeded, retracing the various steps of the process of reform of the banking system, to make it clear that in this case there was not the sum of so many commercials: there was a general project of reform of the banking system and we tried to run this project. I find only a small part of Senator Girotto's analysis of non-performing loans (NPL) acceptable, while it is true what he said, because it has emerged clearly in some cases, about the fact that there were entrepreneurs who borrowed money from the banks and who were then induced to buy shares from the banks themselves. I believe that these are precisely elements to be denounced with force and determination, and I believe that this will be the task for the Commission of Inquiry. I found a pessimism perhaps unjustified and even dangerous in Senator Ceroni's words because, when he says that 20 billion are few and that you have to go up to 50 billion, I think you put dangerous information into the system that must be handled with great caution. We must be careful to say these things, because they risk generating an extremely negative climate. As far as Senator De Pin's considerations are concerned, defining what happened as a serial and heinous crime seems very strong to me. In relation to the considerations made by Senator D'Anna and Senator Bonfrisco on the issue of the division between business banks and commercial banks, I think that the precise and precise answers to this question are found in the first survey made by our Commission. Senator Mussini said that she was worried about coming to our Commission perhaps annoyingly. I would like to reassure you that this is not the case: colleagues who come to us are always welcome. With a sentence, the senator then referred to a somewhat countless behavior: Supire, truncate, father very reverend, truncate, somire. Well, as a person who appreciates Manzoni I would allow myself to answer, to give more sense of what was tried to do, with the words of the great chancellor Antorio Ferrer, when he said: adelante, Pedro, with juicio. I think that a difficult and complex matter like this should be treated with that level of attention that allows us to get not to easy shortcuts, but to adequate insights. Then I was allowed a joke on the topic of financial education, because you have longed on the point: I think the best answer was given precisely by the Senate with the conference organized last Thursday with the collaboration of the Commissions 6a and 7a in the presence of Minister Padoan, the Governor of the Bank of Italy and the President of CONSOB. Financial education has entered our system, but it doesn't want to be a way of downloading the responsibility for wrong choices on citizens (for I found it a bit risky to compare with the operating room), but rather to start thinking for the future, making sure that a new conscience, made of attention to problems like these, has absolutely adequate answers. Working for the future today also means creating the conditions for our children to be more aware of issues such as these. However, this means not only turning to young people, but, through a lifelong learning system, thinking about a lifelong learning process. I will conclude with a reference to what Senator Cucchetti said, the last of the speakers: he has rightly said that the Commission, if it does not want to become a gymnasium of opposing demagogies, needs an important level of attention and that the Commission must be a member of not those who read but things in the newspapers, but those who have read the papers. I feel that I fully agree with this sentence, because between yesterday and today I saw the Commission writing: "Now politics, with its bad and late conscience, has invented a ridiculous final Golgotha: the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which will not discover anything (...). It will be a useless recipe for poisons and vendettas. These are the words of Massimo Giannini, the famous journalist who accused the Senate of having introduced a form of pardon in the voluntary disclosure measure - I say this to defend the Senate - when that part had been approved by the Chamber and expunged from it in April 2014. On the other hand, there is the most serene cut of those who say that one must try to approach an important and delicate matter like this with the constructive spirit that comes from the awareness of handling a delicate instrument, as stated today, in a beautiful article, Angelo De Mattia. These are the two poles of the story; the average is given by the level of attention that each of us must have in order to ensure that what we are going to do now is a moment of justice and transparency, without any retro-thought and hypothesis of dangerous sales, which would end up harming the country itself first. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u18	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale D'Ovidio di Campobasso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u19	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u20	Madam President, the Government appreciates the work carried out by the 6th Commission, as evidenced by the active cooperation in the Commission by Mr Baretta. The Committee of Inquiry into the banking system can, we believe, be a useful tool for achieving the aims set out in the law establishing addressing issues, always maintaining balance and attention to merit (I quote Senator Moscardelli, also taken up by the rapporteur president). In particular, proposals and suggestions on the strengthening of the credit system to support the country system and to protect savers may also come from the Commission's work. As Senator Carraro, also taken up by the rapporteur, has made clear, this is a typically parliamentary act taken by Parliament in its sacrosanct constitutional autonomy. We naturally hope that the work will be productive, beyond and below the controversy and skirmishes. The Commission is a tool to understand errors and malfunctions, to correct and change by inducing responsibilities and transparency in the system, also to identify responsibilities by distinguishing, as Mr Fornaro has made very clear, wheat from rye. We hope it will not be imagined as a convention of nouvelles tricoteuses, using it instrumentally as a clava in any direction, also providing collaboration to the judiciary without replacing it. Of course, the Government, if requested, will cooperate in a transparent and effective manner, as has already been done in the Commission, in the work of the Committee of Inquiry, strictly respecting its prerogatives. From this very positive point of view, Madam President, I would like to announce that the Government will return to the House on all the amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u21	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u22	Madam President, with Amendment No 1,101 we are trying to establish the end of the Commission's work by the end of the 17th legislature. We understand the speech made by President Marino in giving a positive opinion on amendment 1,106, where we add the words "and in any case by the end of the XVII legislative term". However, we believe that, at the lexical level, putting together the words "one year" and "by the end of the XVII legislative term" is wrong, also because we are afraid that, then, in the House, an amendment can be approved. So it's better to put it right before the end of the 17th legislature, so it doesn't change anything, and move on with the work. I therefore call on everyone to support Amendment 1,101. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u23	Madam President, it is also essential for the Northern League Group to set a certain time limit within which the Commission will have to complete its work, and it is clear that we believe it is essential that this should be done by the end of the term of office. The risk, otherwise, would be to start a job, not to finish it and that in the next parliamentary term the new senators and Members should start again, from scratch, the work that has been going on for two years now, with an unnecessary cognitive investigation and serious delays in arriving in this House for the approval of the text. We welcome the rapporteur's willingness to respond to this need. However, I regret that, compared with the wording he intends to accept, namely the text of amendment 1,106, it would have been more effective to accept Amendments 1,101 or 1,102, tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola respectively and by the Lega Nord Group, which would have ensured a clearer, clearer and more effective interpretation. It is clear that the adoption or not of amendments that will set a certain time limit will determine our final vote on the whole measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u24	The remaining amendments are set out. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u25	Madam President, the opinion is against Amendments 1.1 and 1.100. I call for the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 1,101, 1,102, 1.2, 1,103, 1,104 and 1,105. On the other hand, the opinion is in favour of amendment 1,106, in line with the logic I set out in the reply, which was accepted by the authors of the amendment, and which is quite clear: the logic is to say that we must take advantage of all the time available. Since immediately after the adoption there had been controversy because it seemed that we wanted to procrastinate, it seems to me that the wording of amendment 1,106 covers all the comments made and allows the call for the withdrawal of the other amendments relating to the same subject. Finally, I am against Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u26	I would remind you that the representative of the Government has stated that he will return to the will of the Assembly on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u29	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in the light of the speech by the rapporteur who gave a favourable opinion on Amendment 1,106, the Group of Forza Italia withdraws all the other amendments signed by me and my colleagues, Mr D'Alì and Mr Sciascia. We had presented this last wording in the light of the debate that had taken place in the Commission. We may have liked other texts more, but the important thing for us is that it is clear that the work must end before the end of the parliamentary term. Therefore, from this point of view we are satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u35	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, in view of the rapporteur's statements, we withdraw Amendments Nos 1,103 and 1,104, while we maintain Amendment No 1,102, which we consider to be a better version than that contained in Amendment No 1,106.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u38	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, has Amendment 1.4 also been withdrawn? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Bottici. BOTTICS (M5S). I'll do it myself, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u39	I take note of that, Senator Bottici. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the authors do not wish to accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal, we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,101, which is essentially the same as Amendment No 1,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u42	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make an explanation of vote to remind President Marino and the whole House of the simple Italian-speaking problem which, by rejecting Amendment No 1,101 tabled by our Group and voting in favour of Amendment No 1,106, would be found in the text of the law because it is an issue which I find unintelligible. The Commission shall, pursuant to Article 1 (2), conclude its work within one year of its establishment. If you approve of the amendment tabled by Senator D'Alì, the text would say: "and by the end of the 17th legislature" anyway. This means that if the legislature ends sooner, however, the Commission would not finish its work by the end of the parliamentary term, and this seemed to us an important point both for those who come after us, and for giving the Italians a fixed point of arrival and clarification on the very important investigation that this Commission will carry out. It is almost for granted that the parliamentary term will last a year and within this period, within which the parliamentary term will end, we will, however, close the issue. Sounds like a repeat. Our definition, on the other hand, would consist in replacing, in paragraph 2, with reference to the conclusion of the Commission's work, the words: "within a year of its constitution" with the words "by the end of the XVII legislature" (i.e. by the end of the XVII legislature). In fact, given how likely things will go, however it will be within a year, but with this clarification we give this text of law its formal consistency decidedly more appropriate to the Senate of the Republic, which is the Upper House of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u43	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola, essentially identical to amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Tosato and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.2, 1.103 and 1.104 have been withdrawn. I would ask the presenter whether he accepts the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw Amendment 1,105. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore call on Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.105. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,106, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken by Senator Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u44	Madam President, we have tabled two amendments to Article 2, and then there is the amendment tabled by Senator Moscardelli, which, however, provides for only a kind of statement, about the problem of the members of the Commission who have been involved or who continue to deal with the banking system, understood as advice, boards of directors or large members. That proposed by Amendment 2,101 is therefore a simple statement which we do not think solves the problem, so we have tabled Amendment 2,10 which we are calling for to ensure that they are not appointed and Amendment 2,12 which calls for the appointment of Commissioner of the Commission of Inquiry to be subject to the previous statement, that is to say that it will also prevent these subjects from entering the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u45	The remaining amendments are set out. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u46	Madam President, on the basis of the comments made in the reply, I welcome Amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Moscardelli, calling for the withdrawal of Amendments 2,100 and 2.102. The expression used in the amendment presented by Senator Bottici, which excludes the appointment for anyone connected with banking institutions, would create a difficulty in identifying the entities concerned. It is clear that, where the amendment tabled by Senator Moscardelli refers to the fact of having held administrative and supervisory positions in the banking institutions under investigation, the scope is defined by Article 3, first paragraph, point (b) of the measure under consideration, which defines the banks in question (I say this only for the sake of clarity of exposure in the Report of the Shareholders' Meeting). I therefore call for the withdrawal of Amendments 2,100 and 2.102, otherwise the opinion is against, because from my point of view they are included in Senator Moscardelli's amendment 2.101, on which I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u47	Does Senator Bottici accept the call for the rapporteur's amendments to be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u48	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u52	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak quickly because I want it to remain in the documents which will be approved by an amendment, so that if a designated member of the Committee of Inquiry was, for example, on the Board of Directors of Banca Etruria or Monte dei Paschi di Siena, it is sufficient that he declares it in order to be a member of the Commission itself. I want to see what will happen when someone who has been part of maladministration, perhaps at a criminal stage in its management, becomes a member of the Commission. I want to understand, colleagues, if you who are sitting here, you will make it look normal, because self-declaration is enough. It was said during the examination of the measure in the Commission in the contact person that it is an indication of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. Then a joke comes naturally: it's a bit like for a Member who has been part of a 'ndrina or a thigh' enough to declare it in order to be admitted equally to be part of the anti-mafia commission. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] I don't think self-declaration will change anything, and I want you to stay on the record, because when it does, I'll ask you to account. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u55	SANTANGELO (M5S). We would like to ask that the votes be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u56	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Moscardelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.102 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u57	Madam President, in Article 3 we have tabled a number of amendments, one of which is a little more comprehensive, to redefine in some way the areas of the Commission's investigation, while several other amendments are more detailed. For example, with amendment 3,103 we would like to include that the Commission of Inquiry should also check whether there is any political link or influence in credit assessment and credit granting and bank resolution operations. It is true that the Commission's investigative powers are quite general, but sometimes too general makes you lose the point where you have to go and check. It would therefore be appropriate to include at least this forecast, even in the light of everything that has happened over the years. And we don't just talk about the last few years, we would miss something else; the history of Monte dei Paschi is an old story, it is not current, while the history of Banca Etruria has come out now. But there we have to go and see how political interference was possible, and then take those suggestions, which the President mentioned first, to go and change the rules of the game. But if we don't have specifics, it's really hard to find the point, that is, the hair in the egg. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u58	Madam President, I consider Amendment 3,102 to be fundamental, because the text of the draft law generically identifies the banking institutions that have been involved in situations of crisis or failure and have been or are addressed, even indirectly, to public resources or have been put into resolution. Well, this statement actually allows us - it allows the Commission - not necessarily to dwell on what were the most serious, unheard-of, intolerable and immoral scandals financially in the management and total lack of respect for savers. Therefore, Amendment 3,102, signed by myself and Senator Bottici, asks to insert, after the words: "Posted in resolution" the words: "with particular reference to the following Institutes: - and I quote them, so that citizens know them - "Monte dei Paschi di Siena," Banca delle Marche Spa, Banca populare dell'Etruria e del Lazio - Cooperative company, Cassa di risparimento di Ferrara Spa, Cassa di risparimento della provincia di Chieti Spa, Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Bank". This is very important, because the most heinous crimes in the financial field have taken place here, and I would not like anyone to investigate other banks in disrepute tomorrow to take over these investigations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u59	Madam President, I have not spoken in this debate and I have tabled only Amendment 3.38 on this measure, not because I do not recognise the need for it, but because objectively, considering the point at which we are from the legislature, I believe that the function that this Commission will perform will be at the most propaedeutic to what the next legislature will have to put in place with sufficient time to work. I believe that a Commission of Inquiry working on the universe of the banking world, with a wide range of topics such as the one envisaged in this measure, can achieve little before the end of the legislature. What is the purpose of this amendment? To illustrate this, I come from the quotation of something that is often said by Senator Carraro's colleague, namely that supervisory bodies must not only be above suspicion, but must also appear above suspicion. The concept that I want to introduce with this amendment is that one of the tasks of the Commission, which I believe is fundamental and with added value in relation to what the measure already provides, must be checked for the absolute absence of conflicts of interest between the vigilant and the vigilant authorities, with particular reference to what is known as the revolving door mechanism (I do not explain what this is about, as it is well known). I have been told in the Commission that there is no such thing as a matter of fact that the Commission of Inquiry also deals with this issue. That is certainly the case, but I am taking a step forward: I propose that the Committee of Inquiry should deal with this matter, because I believe that the absolute lack of conflict of interest between supervisors and supervisors is a cornerstone of the banking system, as well as any other system that provides for the existence of a vigilante and a vigilante. If the amendment were not accepted, the Commission of Inquiry would only deal with this issue side by side and, therefore, I would seriously urge you to consider this point. I believe that the adoption of the amendment could give rise to a number of advantages. First of all, it will be possible to verify in a relatively short time (perhaps also compatible with the residual duration of the legislature) whether there have been such mechanisms in the past and whether they have affected and how we have dealt with the many crises we have been dealing with in recent years. Above all, it will be possible to see whether legislation (which also exists and provides for a certain type of constraint which should avoid these conflicts of interest) has been respected and whether it is sufficient to ensure the absolute absence of conflicts of interest. I believe that this is a central point of the measure which has not been properly dealt with and I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u60	Madam President, with a fiction we imagine that the Committee of Inquiry which is to be set up, with the parliamentary time remaining here at the end of the parliamentary term, will seriously carry out the task which this House entrusts to it, of course with the presence of Members who are more interested in the substance of the matter than in propaganda matters. If that were the case, amendments 3,105 and 3,106, in my name, are intended to clarify what happened before and during the reform process of the popular banks, in order to prevent similar incidents of lack of transparency and suspicions never completely escaped in the future regarding speculative manoeuvres on the actions of the popular banks. According to press reports (I have a powerful dossier containing articles also published in the specialized press), there is the problem of those who have made substantial profits and of those who may have used shortcuts to get control of listed companies out of hand without complying with the rules provided by the single text of finance. Senator colleagues, we are faced with many dark aspects, two of which I want to highlight quickly. By decree-law a centuries-old history of participation of thousands and thousands of people, who, like me, possessing ten or one hundred shares, counted as much as those who owned a million, with extraordinary roots in the territory. And that decree-law was issued in the transitional period, in which there was no longer the old Head of State and there was no new one, so the provision was not signed either by Napolitano or Mattarella. The urgency of choices that cancel economic pluralism and hundreds of years of history with a decree-law raises some doubts. The suspicion is that the purpose of the decree-law on popular banks is to be sought in the desire to please the interests of foreign banks and American funds, and this suspicion arises because Renzi himself, in an interview published on January 22, 2015, spoke of the need to open the popular banks to foreign capitals and to force them to become companies by shares (so to open up to international markets), thus being able to announce to Davos, in front of the international financial community, the news of the complete reform. Whether it is an advantage then that, for the territories that have grown economically thanks to the roots of the people, these banks are bought by some potentate in Japan, in the Arab countries or in the United States, it is all to be demonstrated, and we will see it in the future. What, then, are you asking with these amendments? To ascertain a whole range of issues remain open. Was the measure concerning the people included in the package of measures that Prime Minister Renzi himself would guarantee the troika? Has the reform of the people also been made necessary to save other banks that were natural allies? What are the reasons why the minutes of the interrogation of the then President of the Council, heard as heads on 20 May 2016 on the ongoing investigation, had to be kept secret? Has it been given course, and with what result, to the international interrogations requested by the Public Prosecutor of Rome? Was there a link or not between the purchase of Bank Etruria shares and the funds distracted by the company Eutelia as a result of its bankruptcy? Has the necessary clarity been made on the role played in the affair of the financier Davide Serra? What was the role of Council Presidency consultant Carlotta De Franceschi? What has happened to the 15 strands of investigation opened by the judiciary, if they are still open? Amendment 3106, which is a variation on the subject, asks: what happened to the investigation opened by CONSOB? Is it true or not that suspicious movements began before the period under review, namely, before anyone knew, evidently, that a decree-law was about to be issued while others did not know? What are the funds and with which financial instruments have speculative transactions put in place? Has the supervisory authority expanded its investigation to include derivative transactions? What was the extent of these operations? In what period have they been put in place? I am also saying this because the outgoing President of the Council, Renzi, said that he would be delighted that this Committee of Inquiry would also be interested in these questions that public opinion and so many bodies have raised and on which so many citizens are waiting for an answer, so I also expect the Government, in line with what the former President of the Council said, to give a favourable opinion to these amendments. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u61	The remaining amendments are set out. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u62	Madam President, I am against Amendments 3.1 (text 2), 3,100, 3,101. In 3,102 I listened to Senator Airola's speech, but the more precise wording risks narrowing rather than widening, in the sense that it could potentially create the conditions for them to be treated in a different way. I think it will be up to the members of the Commission of Inquiry to decide how to interpret this rule. The opinion is therefore against, but I just wanted to specify why I followed carefully what you said, Senator Airola. The opinion also opposed Amendments 3.10, 3.11, 3.16, 3.20, 3.103, 3.21, 3.27, 3.28, 3.29, 3.31, 3.32 and 3.33. On Amendment 3.34 I make a call for withdrawal - or otherwise against - because the same specification with respect to European supervision has already been accepted by the Commission - I say this to Senators Sciascia, D'Alì, Carraro and Galimberti - in point (d), while I do not think it should be included in point (c). On Amendment 3.38, at the first signature of Senator Vacciano, I feel obliged to give an opinion against it, rather because of the extraneousness of the matter. I agree with what Senator Vacciano has said, but, since I am convinced that this Commission will work, I think it will be the task of a different kind of legal intervention to accept the information contained here, whereas the Commission of Inquiry will have to check whether the use or abuse of an instrument such as this has occurred in the past. That is why I welcome it, but I do not think that this is the place where this issue should be brought to fruition. I therefore call for the withdrawal of the opinion to be rejected, but I certainly think it is important to carry out a battle together to ensure that this aspect becomes part of our order. I am against Amendment 3104. I am opposed to Amendment No 3.105, because it is an issue that we have not dealt with in the cognitive survey, which had a prodromic value in relation to this work: there has been a consequence of the work carried out in the cognitive survey and of what will have to be done with the new Commission of Inquiry. I am against Amendment 3,106, because it concerns a matter for Consob. As far as possible - and the Commission of Inquiry will do so, if it considers it appropriate - whether Consob has done so or not; if it has not done so, it will decide how to act.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u63	I would ask the authors whether they accept the call for the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 334 and 338. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 3.34. VACCIANO (Mixed). No, Madam President, I would like to maintain the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102 tabled by Senators Airola and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senators Airola and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senators Airola and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senators Airola and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,103 tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.27, tabled by Senators Bottici and Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senators Airola and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.29.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u66	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, as we said before, the text of the draft law for the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry is very broad. But if it is so broad, when the Commission is set up, how long will it take to decide where to start? Shall we start from the Mount of the Paschi, from the Etruria Bank, from the People? Do we look at the impact of the financial crisis in the banking world? Where do we start? That is why we wanted to add details and with Amendment 3.29 we are talking about the remuneration of managers. How much has the remuneration of bank managers affected the crisis in the banking system? At least we start with something, otherwise I think that, by imagining the Commission of Inquiry with this wide variety of possibilities, with the time that goes by without going ahead, we risk approving a good text, setting up a good Commission, but the result will be zero.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u67	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,29 tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.31.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u70	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, in Article 3 it is expected that the Commission will investigate the forms of credit provision to particularly important borrowers. We would like to add to any debt restructuring agreements concluded with the same borrowers, which is not secondary. We would like to know, for example, whether for Marcegaglia or for someone else who has smoked tens, hundreds of millions of euros, a return plan has also been planned for the bank that provided the loan. We wanted to point this out, but it was not accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.31, tabled by Senators Airola and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.32, tabled by Senator Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.33, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Sciascia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.34 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 338.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u74	VACCIANO (Mixed). Madam President, I certainly agree with what the rapporteur has said and my position has always been very clear, but I cannot withdraw the amendment. I would have had no problem with that if the draft law had provided for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the Roccacannuccia Bank, but it is a Commission of Inquiry into the banking system, which is a complex world, and in the course of our investigations we have seen that it is much more so than even expert people in the matter might think. It is therefore clear that investigating the world universe will objectively lead us to have to make choices, and I want these decisions to be addressed to one of the cornerstones of the banking system, that is, the system of supervision. In my opinion it is clear that, beyond the solidity of the banking system, on which we can have different opinions, when we instill in the citizens the doubt that those who watch can do - using a particular word - haunt or have conflicts of interest with those who must be watched, undermine on one of the hinges of the system itself. With this amendment, therefore, I would like to see any doubts dissipated before we have to think about legislative action on this subject, before we have to make further considerations on all the problems that monitoring a complex system such as banking can entail. I would like the Commission to deal with this, and that is why I believe that we must maintain Amendment 3.38 and submit it to the vote of this House. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u77	MUSSINI (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to some of the key words contained in this amendment, namely the expressions 'conflicts of interest', 'vigilant subjects' and'supervised persons'. I would like to remind you that this country floats on gigantic conflicts of interest in general, which are more pernicious, a real leprosy for our productive system, when they intervene between the vigilant and the vigilant. It makes sense for Senator Marino to say that in this case it is a matter of extraneousness to matter, because that is the central point. We have wasted a lot of time instead of putting under a microscope situations that the country indicates to us as serious, which have a huge impact on families. Now we are talking about banks, but these same conflicts of interest between vigilants and vigilants are everywhere: giants of our production collapse because there have been revolving doors that have led subjects to watch over bodies in which they used to work, as revolving doors are also between politics and business. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to say whether we want the issue of the conflict of interest between vigilantes and vigilantes to be dealt with by a committee of inquiry and not by talking at the bar. Therefore, in declaring my vote in favour, I would also like to point out that an unfavorable vote on this amendment because of its extraneousness to the matter becomes very difficult to justify in the eyes of a country that looks and when it goes on the Internet it sees that Guy also had a position at the place "x" and was vigilant on the place "y" that he had to watch. This, in fact, is what the information postpones because, if God wants, the Network today allows access to people's movements. I would not want anyone (maybe even many) to have the straw tail and above all not to face the conflict of interest in one sector to prevent someone from checking it out in other areas. Vote against such an amendment is therefore a very significant political responsibility. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u80	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, during the cognitive investigation we spoke with all the parties, including the supervision itself (Bank of Italy and Consob). Before, we were talking about advertising and the confidentiality of the news. We have a strange system for supervision: if, on the one hand, one body tells me that I have to advertise a banking situation, on the other, the other institution tells me not to do it because I have to pay attention to the market. In the same institutions we have entities that leave or enter the banking system after experience or in view of future experience in the supervisory system. When the 5 Star Movement caused a great chaos for the question of banks' participation in the capital of Banca d'Italia, it wanted to raise this problem, because the system has now mixed. Therefore, given that some of the laws can be surpassed by those who want to interfere in certain managements, we must give the Commission of Inquiry the opportunity to identify the people who have used the revolving doors; only in this way, in fact, can we recreate the confidence that the Italian citizen is now losing and continues to lose in the banking system, but also in the political one. If politics itself fails to give itself rules against the conflict of interest and continues to appoint those subjects who run within the same system, politics has failed. I therefore call for the whole House to vote in favour of Amendment No 3.38, in order to restore a minimum of fairness to the parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u83	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I shall vote in favour. The reasons have already been expressed, in particular by Senator Vacciano, to whom I ask if I can add the signature to his amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u84	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.38, tabled by Senator Vacciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104 tabled by Senators Airola and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.105.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u87	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I rise on Amendments 3,105 and 3,106. This morning Corrado Sforza Fogliani, the president of Assopopulari, recalled a statement by Matteo Renzi, regarding the reform of the people, in which he stated that: We have no skeletons in the closet; indeed, we look forward to Parliament finally approving the Committee of Inquiry into Banks and citing this particular case. Perhaps, with great optimism, the President expected the Senate to go in the direction of meeting the request of the former President of the Council. Today, however, the rapporteur and the government decide that the Committee of Inquiry should not deal with this subject, in line with what the Committee of Inquiry had done. The question I ask myself is: should not the Committees of Inquiry deal with very important issues relating to banks and questions which have not been answered and which leave a shadow on what was done by the then President of the Council? Perhaps, thinking wrong, you might think that that shadow someone has an interest in keeping it and not removing it. However, I am very shocked that, in the face of a request from the world of popular banks, and in the face of a green disc given by the former President of the Council, rapporteur and government, they invite the Senate to vote against and to take an interest in one of the fundamental issues that will characterize not only this legislature, but also subsequent ones because it will be discussed for a long time. As I said before, if one deletes one hundred and fifty years of history with a decree of necessity and urgency, making it hastily, in a way that I believe is a world record and that has no justification, to go and investigate why this has happened is the minimum union for a Senate that wants to make truth and clarity, and not just something empty, that does not come to determine the truth on a fundamental page for our economy, yesterday, today and tomorrow. In any case, I would ask my fellow Members, on such an important matter, to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u88	A representation of students from the Institute of Higher Education is present in the Chamber in Naples, to which we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.105, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,106 tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u90	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1 SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senators Molinari and Vacciano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u94	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, with Amendment 5.3 we are asking the Commission to acquire the documents and documents relating to investigations into banks. The supervision of the Bank of Italy carries out inspections. We know very well, in fact, that sometimes the employees of the banks present some exhibits to the Bank of Italy that, following these acts, arranges an inspection. Then, however, nothing is known about it anymore. We therefore ask that both the acts relating to the checks of the Bank of Italy and those carried out by CONSOB on financial transactions be acquired by the Commission. In fact, in this way we will also have the opportunity to understand whether supervision has done more or less its job. 18.15 p.m. (BOTTIC FOLLOWS). Since we did not want to approve Senator Vacciano's amendment on supervision of vigilantes and we did not include in the Commission's remit the criteria necessary to investigate much more specifically the banking system, at least let us hand over the documents. Then if we can read them, well, otherwise someone will read them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u95	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3 tabled by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u96	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u97	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u100	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to add that, specifically, this amendment by Mr Cappelletti does not add much to the text. However, I would like to stress, at the end of these votes, that we really kept out of the door the checks that were to be carried out by the controllers, Consob and Bankitalia, in all possible ways. This is not correct, especially on the part of a majority party which, in my opinion, has very serious responsibilities in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u101	We greet a delegation from the Trento Rural Fund, which is witnessing our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u102	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, since the measure will have to pass to the House and everyone has stressed the need to conclude the work of the Assembly as soon as possible in order to be able to start with the work of the Commission, I hope that there will be some self-content in the explanations of vote in order to be able to quickly approve the bill for our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u105	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will of course stick to your instructions. However, I would like to clarify the position of the North League with regard to the draft law before us. We have taken a very critical position, in the general debate, on a legal text of which we basically share the content and objectives, but with respect to which we feel bitterness and in part also anger because the measure comes to an absolutely and blamefully late approval. We remember, in fact, that the legislative proposals for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking system were presented between December 2015 and January 2016, a year and a half ago, in the midst of the crisis of the banking system. Unfortunately, a wrong path has been followed, which we have criticized from the outset in the Finance Committee, for which instead of immediately launching the Commission of Inquiry, giving time to the Commission itself to work and arrive at concrete, effective and useful conclusions for the work of this Parliament, it has chosen to start a survey in the Commission, with a whole series of hearings of stakeholders in this affair, which has in fact nothing added to the conclusions set out in the current legislative text. Unfortunately, it was a deliberate and planned choice by the majority, particularly the Democratic Party, and it was understood from the outset that there was no willingness to speed up this initiative. We note that the rapporteur and the majority, in response, have accepted amendments tabled by the oppositions in order at least to try to get this Commission to carry out its work by the end of the term of office and therefore the Group of the North Legacy has decided to vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]] This vote in favour is expressed in respect, above all, of all those citizens who have suffered damage, even considerable damage, because of the failure of some banks and who - I remind the rapporteur - paid firsthand for what happened. It cannot be said, as the rapporteur has done, that the citizens have not paid the consequences of what has happened: we know that in reality many Italian citizens, many savers not only have been conned, in some cases consciously, by some banks, but have lost all their savings and are still experiencing very serious dramas today, so they continue to protest before Parliament and other institutions and feel abandoned and unheard. I believe that this Commission is one of the possible responses to their tragedy, if it can identify responsibilities, which is a fundamental aspect, but above all make corrections to the control phases and rules that must protect our savers. We can also be inadequate in dealing with certain issues and certain emergencies - and we believe that unfortunately this majority and the Renzi Government have been absolutely inadequate - but it is necessary to have respect for the people who have lost all their savings. Even today there are too many citizens, too many savers who are waiting for the answers and compensations that have been established and that must be paid as soon as possible. With respect to them, to do justice and to ensure accountability, we are voting in favour of the establishment of this Commission, in the hope that it will work quickly, draw the necessary conclusions and put an end to a still serious and dramatic situation for too many of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u106	If everyone respects the five-minute limit for their explanations of vote, we may be able to vote on the measure by this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u109	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, the long history of the Commission of Inquiry, which we are deciding today, is symptomatic of the difficulty that the Commission of Finance has had in correctly defining its aims and tasks and in specifying its scope for action. This is because two different purposes have overlapped each other. A goal has also emerged on several occasions in the debate over the last few weeks: that of using the Commission of Inquiry as an improper instrument of political campaigning, by now of electoral campaigning, to delegitimize this or that public character, when it is not - and it is certainly worse - this or that institution. The other aim, dear to us and fully reflected in the current Article 1 of the draft law, is to place the protection of the saver at the centre of the Commission's investigation, with the priority will to clarify the situations of conflict of interest, bad management, unfair practices or actual frauds, which have called into question the good of the protection of savings and savers, which - as is well known - has constitutional importance. The difficulty, ambiguity and ambivalence of purposes have prevented a reasonable synthesis. The draft law before us does not define precisely the subject of the investigation, which is too broad, even in its temporal extension. The actual decision to delimit its action is therefore left in the hands of the Commission of Inquiry itself. In order to assist the Commission of Inquiry in this difficult task, the Finance and Treasury Commission has rightly preceded its establishment by an investigation work, which has enabled - on the one hand - to understand the effects that the financial crisis has had on the Italian banking system and, on the other hand, to clearly reconstruct the important institutional changes that have taken place in the period following the onset of the crisis and which must be kept well in mind by the Commission in carrying out the task assigned to it by Article 3 (1) (d), i.e. to assess the adequacy of national and European legislative and regulatory rules on the banking and financial system, as well as on the supervisory system, including for the prevention and management of banking crises. At the end of the period under investigation, for example, supervision of the banking system was largely carried out by the ECB, which, unlike the previous investigation, has been equipped with much more effective tools since 2016, such as the removal power of directors. These considerations are important in order to avoid evaluating yesterday's interventions in the light of today's instruments. Reaffirming - as already clearly emphasized by Senator Fornaro's intervention - the unwillingness of the Group Art.1-MDP to improper and propagandistic uses of the Commission's activity in the long year of the electoral campaign before us, I confirm the strong and convinced commitment of our Group to make this Commission an important tool, in order to understand the extent and characteristics of the phenomena of poor placement in the public of small savers of financial products and in particular of bank liabilities; what have been the most recurrent violations of the fundamental rules of transparency, which are the basis of conscious choices by savers; if it is true, how and who has systematically violated the rules that require not to have risky products signed by people who do not have sufficient financial preparation to assess this risk; who and how has violated the obligation to combine the granting of credits and the sale of financial instruments of banks and, finally, how much have weighed the conflicts of interest, including those present in the policies of granting the credits, in determining certain specific situations of crisis and failure. In giving our vote in favour of the draft law under consideration, we will also endeavour to ensure that the right investigation on these issues helps to give the correct dimension of the phenomena and instead does not translate into an undifferentiated process, which confuses innocent and guilty and destroys confidence in the banking system as a whole and in the institutions, making every grass a bundle and thus translating itself into a damage to our country [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u112	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to help reassure all those who fear that this Commission of inquiry will become the scene of a reckoning between opposing factions. Still last week these fears were advanced, on the pages of an Italian financial newspaper, by a former senior executive of the Bank of Italy, in the past among the closest collaborators of Governor Antonio Fazio. The warning was the usual: the markets look at us. And, therefore, as they used to say, "Shut up, the enemy listens to you." That is not the spirit in which our Group is preparing to vote in favour. I am not so naive as to believe that some magicians, so far too covered, should not be exposed. I do not forget - for example - the "resistible rise" of Giuseppe Mussari, then ended up in prison. Then the Minister of the Treasury intervened pro tempore, with an act of direction towards the foundations, in order to avoid alternative applications. Our intentions are different. We believe it is essential to fill a void and a lack of attention that have lasted for years, in contempt of a precise constitutional precept. As is well known, Article 47 gives the Republic the task of encouraging and protecting savings; I repeat to the Republic and not to the Bank of Italy or CONSOB. And committees of inquiry should also be set up on the evils that have caused the Bank of Italy and CONSOB to save over the last twenty years. It follows that Parliament cannot take its place, as it did, from overseeing such a delicate sector for the economic life of the country, which invests the fate of so many Italian families. I say 'oversee', i.e. respecting the specific roles that belong to other independent institutions. That this is not a principle of mischievous majesty is demonstrated by a recent investigation by Transparency International - a non-governmental anti-corruption organization - that some embarrassment has created at the ECB itself by Mario Draghi. The defence of the euro is okay, but the Central Bank must be more transparent, both in the way it governs every decision and in the way it communicates it to a wider audience. But what must be his privileged interlocutor? Above all - the report suggests - the European Parliament. So, along the lines of this reasoning, the need to fill that gap I was talking about earlier. The Italian Parliament cannot continue to be a stone guest, especially if it is then forced - as it was - to intervene when the oxen have fled, as in the case of the recent decree-law that allocated 20 billion to deal with the banking crisis. The work of the Commission of Inquiry, therefore, has a broader scope: to verify whether the current principals are respectful of Article 47 of the Constitution or whether - in which we believe - a stronger involvement of the depositary of popular sovereignty is not necessary. There is therefore a problem of democratic holding, and not only that. As is well known, the Italian banking system has a pervasiveness that is unknown in other economic systems. We are neither England nor France, countries with more complex financial systems and productive structures with a higher rate of self-financing. On the other hand, we are a "bancocentric" system: that is to say that most of our production structures live only through the provision of credit. In other words, they depend on the state of health of the banking system: if it gets cold, the rest of the economy - as has happened recently - is likely to get pneumonia. The discourse is obviously reversible: if the economy stagnates, the first shocks are precisely on the credit joints. The demonstration of this assumption is in the course of banking suffering: the so-called non-performing loans, a problem common to all European countries, but in a dimension that is certainly not the Italian one. Our economy, in fact, is equal to about one sixth of that of the eurozone, but the banking suffering is equal to about half: an obvious imbalance that reflects the peculiarity of the "Italian case." It is therefore interesting to see where this disproportion comes from. According to the previous Government, bank liabilities amounted to about 140 billion euros in May 2016, and it is enough to see in this regard the Update Note to the DEF of the past year. Of this amount, about 50% is linked to the crisis in construction and construction. Have these implications been taken into account in the introduction of supertaxation on buildings, which led to the crisis on the property market? Was the government aware of that? And has Parliament had anything to complain about? No, ladies and gentlemen. Could the Bank of Italy or Consob intervene? Of course they couldn't say anything. Parliament is the only constitutional body that has general competence and that goes where others cannot go. But, if you are not interested in the fundamental issues, the risk that follows is the one that is certified by the numbers I have just indicated. And we hope that the new government, with the document of economy and finance that will present us, will realize and take it into consideration, even if we doubt it. We must therefore recover lost time quickly, even if we are at the end of the parliamentary term. It will mean that we will work for those who will one day sit on our own ranks. And that is precisely the strength of Parliament, the only body not to be intermittent, because it is an expression of popular sovereignty and supreme depositary of the interests of the nation and not of the Bank of Italy and Consob. We need to be consistent with such high profiles. Not only must the Commission of Inquiry be bipartisan, and therefore escape the opposition between majority and minority, but its members, starting with its President, will have to have a connotation of impartiality immediately recognizable: in other words, they will have to demonstrate that accountability, that mixture of independence and responsibility, according to the words used by Benoît Coeuré, member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank, in responding to the observations of Transparency International. We will thus demonstrate, and not only to the markets, that we are not reciting a new act of the theater of politics, but we are looking for the truest answers to avoid falling back into the mistakes of the past, preventing the Bank of Italy and CONSOB from doing the good and bad time and not being under the control of Parliament, and therefore of popular sovereignty. In conclusion, my Group will vote in favour of the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u115	MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE). Mr President, the Popular Alternative Group - Centristi per l'Europa will vote in favour of the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system. But it will do so without particular enthusiasm and with some perplexity. The lack of enthusiasm depends on the constitution of the many, too many parliamentary committees of inquiry and investigation and, above all, on their vaporous conclusions. The perplexity depends on the times. Seriously, if a Commission of Inquiry is set up in the fourth year of its term of office, there is reason to believe that it can conclude its work within the natural term of the legislature - a few months earlier - in order to give the Assembly the opportunity to discuss its final report or reports. Therefore, the establishment of this Commission of inquiry is a symbolic act, perhaps a sign that there are no untouchable shrines and that there is nothing to hide. If the signal we want to give is in the direction of transparency, rigour and respect for duties and rights in the banking world, we certainly do not oppose it, but the point is another. I would not like the controversy and the political confrontation that has taken place between the parties and between the government and opposition following - as we know - the four banks in resolution and the difficulties of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and other Venetian banks, to end up overwhelming our banking system that - like all sectors - certainly has inside of the rotten apples and inefficiency, but it was still up to the level, because it promoted one of the first economies of the world. The suspicion that the Commission's work is being exploited, transforming it into an electoral campaign tool, a poison bin and a vendetta, comes to me indirectly from reading the conclusions of the Commission's study of finances and treasure, whose work closed a few weeks ago. And I am also saying this because - ladies and gentlemen - the Senate, through the work of the 6th Commission, has promoted two cognitive investigations in this legislature. And the history of the cognitive investigations and of the committees of inquiry that are repeated recalls the game of the goose: if you fall on the box "demagogy" - as in this case - returns to the starting point and, therefore, another Commission of inquiry is re-established. The last survey, the one of 9 February - I invite you to read it carefully - conducted very well, with the professionalism and correctness that we all recognize to the rapporteur President Mauro Maria Marino, ends with a report, approved by a large majority by the Commission, which can be said to be exemplary and exhaustive. The final report represents the situation of the recent past and speaks of the present of the Italian banking world; therefore, we already have a strong, exemplary, exhaustive document. The conclusions say one thing at the same time obvious and sacrosanct: the Italian economy needs solid financial intermediaries, capitalised, efficient and obviously correct and transparent. The resilience of the system is confirmed, that is, the ability to absorb a long, very long crisis - the crisis that we want to forget here - but that determines fragility in all the actors, in all the instruments of the economic system and, therefore, also in the banking and financial intermediaries. And it is inevitable that such a long crisis will be reflected in the balance sheets of the banks. In this House, however, many have asked and asked the banks for two things that are really hard together: they demand, that is, sound, well capitalised banks with reduced NPLs and generous credit. We are looking for the bank of the earth's paradise, that is, the bank as an institution independent of the economic seasons, stock exchanges and the effects of sovereign debt - I point out that the Italian one is one of the highest in the world - and I repeat independent. The Italian banks - it is ignored in this House - are by far the ones that have the most state bonds in their belly and then, again in this House, there are too many nonsenses about banks, such as - for example - that of dividing commercial banks from financial ones. Italian banks are in fact commercial banks. The employment of Italian banks on assets, i.e. loans to companies, is more than ten points higher than the European average. It is the funding given to small and medium-sized enterprises: no one in Europe gives so much money to small and medium-sized enterprises as the Italian banks do. We want to defend the reputation and operation of Italian banks. We hope that the judiciary - and not the political power - will prosecute dishonest bankers and fraudsters to the detriment of savers and the community. But we are not hypocrites. Serious policy knows the state of health of banking and financial intermediaries and their weaknesses. This is what the European Central Bank, the Bank of Italy, CONSOB tells us. That is what this Parliament's investigation into this parliamentary term has said. That's what the study and research centers say, and even the same ABI with self-criticism. The loans deteriorated from 87 billion in 2008 to 321 billion last year, and revenues are the real problems of Italian banks. On the other hand, Parliament and the Government have, in this 17th parliamentary term, put their hands on important structural reforms and major efforts to consolidate the Italian banking system. In conclusion, do we want to take another goose tour with an original Commission of Inquiry? Let's do it: repetita iuvant. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u118	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to refer immediately to the words of Senator Marino Luigi in which he says that this Commission is a symbolic act. And hearing it from the majority and approving the text in question makes me laugh a little. We have not been asking the Commission for a year: we deposited the text in April 2013 and, therefore, there was time. And when Senator Luigi Marino talks about political confrontation, I would like to point out that it is not the Commission of Inquiry that has triggered it, but it is the choices that politics has made. Let us not forget that all the measures that today show that the banking system has been abandoned and even demolished by politics we all have them. When this House, or rather the majority, approved the bail in - basically the citizens have to pay for the wrongdoing of administrators - it has somehow forgotten the protection of the saver. It is, therefore, the fault of politics. The political confrontation is all there is, and it is right that it is, because we warned you. But even when the requirements of the Basel Committee were accepted, the Italian situation was not taken stock. The system of Italian payments - and the public administration is the mirror of this reality - does not take place within thirty or sixty days, but goes more than one hundred and eighty days, and therefore the financial needs of Italian small and medium-sized enterprises are different from that of German companies. In conclusion, those who ruled the country for years, indeed for decades, have been watching and have not done their homework. Like he didn't do with the NPLs: from us the NPLs are bought, but no one has asked himself and asks the question of who is buying them. Are they really buying the state piece by piece? I never hear of it here, but there is talk in Europe about the fact that we have to give in. The Commission of Inquiry should understand what has happened within those banks. I would like to read Article 3 (a): the Commission has the task of verifying the effects on the Italian banking system of the global financial crisis and the consequences of the worsening of sovereign debt. Where do we start? Which bank do we start with? We have a banking system in which one out of five banks has more trouble than capital [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And, therefore, the banks that we have mentioned, which we think are five or six, are actually only a small part of those that could manifest problems. We wanted a Commission to investigate at least one bank or two. If we look at all of them and think that any bank that receives public funding, aid, subsidies and so on should be analysed, we will never get out of it again. Shall we talk about the Venetian banks? We are guaranteeing our bonds; we have already guaranteed them and we do not yet know whether the European Union will give us the chance to save ourselves. But in the meantime, we're putting capital and you're shutting up. I haven't heard anyone here ask the Minister what he's up to. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're selling us, and you're pissed off when we point it out. We want a serious banking system that really goes back to banking. And we demand the separation between commercial banks and financial banks, because we want those who bring money to the bank to be aware that the market risk is to make financing. Instead, in Europe, market risk is calculated differently from the financial system, because there are more bonds in the banks of Germany, more derivatives than there are in the Italian ones. And we'll shut up. We haven't hit our feet yet and we're going to Europe to say it's okay and we're going to do something. Meanwhile the Italian banking system is collapsing, Italian companies are collapsing: that's the problem and you don't realize it. The political confrontation will be there and this is only the beginning. People are tired of being cheated by someone who should protect them. We know very well that some MIFIDs, i.e. those documents that need to be signed to buy financial products, are false. We know. But they are because there were administrators who were pushing bank officials to sell, sell, sell, profit. Today, since the banking system travels online and technology is different, the bank has to make a different profitability, with a service of accompaniment to the companies, and not with the exploitation of favors, perhaps with that company connected to another politically influential subject in that territory. We can't afford these things anymore. We will abstain from voting on the draft law establishing this Commission because it is a farce and only serves to get it out of the newspapers that we have made the Commission of Inquiry. Let me ask you a question. On the first day the Commission will have to adopt the Rules of Procedure. After that passage, what will be the starting point? What is the subject that the Commissioners are going to discuss first? I want to hear it first in this House, because without it it it's a joke. It is only an attempt to arrive in May, June, September, because we are always in the election campaign here. There is a clash inside and outside the parties and everyone makes the marches in his own way. We wanted a serious committee of inquiry. That had to be the starting point to make the banking system and any foreign investors understand that Italy is no longer the country of bengodi, where everyone arrives and does what they want. There are certain rules and those who are wrong pay, but they pay seriously, in the sense that they leave and are not placed somewhere, ambushed. Let me remind you that some individuals sanctioned by the Bank of Italy for irregularities now manage banks. Whoever made a mistake in a bank was moved to another bank and happened with the approval of the Bank of Italy. Why then can't we investigate how Banca d'Italia works, who is there, who is in charge, who is in charge, who is in charge, who is in charge? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fucksia]] Otherwise, we're really fooling ourselves. Those who followed the Commission's work know that the debate, both on the occasion of the cognitive investigations and on any other measure, was aimed at creating a fabulous Italy system, to restore lustre to that country that you have destroyed and continue to destroy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u121	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we in the Italian Left and many of the Senators of the Mixed Group will abstain in the vote on this draft law and the reasons are very clear. We had presented - and proposed in the form of an amendment - a bill for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry not on the whole banking and financial system, but on exactly what were the points of crisis, which I could list here: the savings bank of Ferrara, the Bank of Marche, the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio, the savings bank of the province of Chieti, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the Popular Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank. Why? We did not make a choice linked only to the current situation, but it is clear to everyone that a Commission of Inquiry can have its effectiveness, its ability to initiate and ensure a serious and rigorous path of clarity, transparency and real determination of what has happened, the causes of the disruption of the banks involved and, at the same time, its responsibilities, only if it is possible to concentrate the very object of the investigation. It wasn't like that. I would also like to add here that when Article 3 (1) (a) places first among the tasks of the Commission of Inquiry the verification of the effects on the Italian banking system of the global financial crisis and the consequences of the worsening of sovereign debt, it is like saying that, in order to make a Commission of Inquiry into pollution in an area of our country, we are releasing a Commission of Inquiry into climate change. I would like to say that we are trying to make an absolutely valuable framework, but it could have been done - as has already been done in part - by means of a survey and not by a Commission of inquiry, which is one of the great prerogatives of our Parliament and which has already been activated at other times - for example on the Parmalat case - and therefore on very serious events which have had dramatic consequences. We then forget that behind our debate, the proposals that we make and also our deliberations, especially with regard to the events that have led to the serious situation in which some banks have broken down, there are the personal tragedies of thousands of savers who rely on bank managers, on whom there is therefore a heavy social responsibility. It is not a purely technical fact or that it has only reflections - and it had them - on our country and its economy. There are at stake the lives of the people in the flesh and in particular the savers who have entrusted themselves to them. The other reason for this is that, precisely because there was no choice to concentrate on specific banks (MPS and others), it was in fact necessary to intervene in this House, where the indication was accepted that the Commission's work, which was scheduled to last one year, will still have to be completed by the end of the parliamentary term. We are talking not only about a committee of inquiry in the Senate - I also say this to the President - but about a bicameral committee, with everything that this entails. And because of the fact that we have expanded the subject over the very few months before us, beyond the intentions of the individual Commissioners, we are in danger of failing to achieve appreciable results. With our proposal, we discussed an issue which was also discussed today in the context of a number of amendments. Unlike the measure to be voted on, which provides for a general verification of the effectiveness of the supervision of the banking system, in our proposal we asked to check whether, how and to what extent supervision has been carried out against the same banks by the institutional authorities responsible for supervision, precisely during the period in which the situation has occurred and - I would like to remind you here - the type of relations between the authorities and the bodies submitted to the Commission. These are the famous revolving doors, which were also mentioned in Senator Vacciano's amendment 3.38, that is, that sort of conflict of interest between vigilant and vigilant. The matter is not trivial. An absolutely guaranteed banking system is based on a system of supervision without strange relationships and able to ensure supervision as a guarantee for savers. We also hope that the Commission of Inquiry will finally produce the famous black list. We will know exactly how, to what extent and to whom substantial funding has been given. We hope to be able to know why large trusts and loans were given to people of whom it was already known that they would have difficulty returning. The other fundamental element is the lack in this bill - which pushes, even more, towards the vote of abstention - of any reference to the mechanisms of appointment of those managers. We asked that one of the tasks of the Commission be to verify the procedures for selection, the criteria for the appointment of directors, their precise responsibility to savers with regard to the obligations of information, diligence and correctness. Throughout the Renzi Government, and even after with Minister Padoan, in the face of established and striking situations of crisis of the aforementioned banks, we have always heard the usual refrain, that is that the Italian banking situation was absolutely quiet. The messages were reassuring, to the point that a late decree was reached with an exposition by the State - as is known - of rather high public resources. In conclusion, we could not vote against it, and that is why we are voting against it. We hope that, despite our reservations, the Commission will at least achieve some clarity. Let us say, however, that we are very perplexed and we do not want the choice to extend the investigation to the whole banking and financial system is linked only to the fact that we are a little evanescent and that we do not want to deepen the responsibilities and the precise causes of banks that have names and surnames. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u122	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Secondary School of First Degree (Enrico Fermi) in Lusia, in the province of Rovigo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u125	SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, the measure before us, which sets up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the banking and financial system, is the synthesis of several draft laws - fifteen, except for errors - of which some concerning the critical situation of specific regional institutions, others of fundamental importance to the national credit system. Moreover, the Finance Committee had prepared a survey of the conditions of the banking system, which began in January 2016 with the aim, as the document states, of an analytical knowledge of the scenarios in which to include the proposed parliamentary investigation activity, starting from the year 2015 by all - I stress all - the Groups. Particular importance was given in the course of this investigation, concluded in January 2017, to the supervisory system of banks, financial operators and their intermediaries, which, as is known, operates on three levels: European Central Bank, Bank of Italy and Consob, with results, as noted in the survey, not entirely positive. The argument was taken up by Article 3 (6) of the measure under consideration which provides for the appointment of the constituent commission (twenty members of the Chamber and twenty members of the Senate) of special supervisory powers over the banking system, financial companies (SGR, Sicav and others) and related intermediaries. I would like to point out once again, as has been repeatedly pointed out by the previous speaker, that the Commission should not complete its work within one year of its full constitution but, in any case, by the end of this parliamentary term (whatever the date). This is to give a strong signal to the public opinion of the Senate's will to implement the Commission as soon as possible. Finally, I note that the Commission, in accordance with the text of Article 4, has the same powers as the judicial authority for the preliminary part only, but, as has already been pointed out several times, the main purpose of the Commission is to shed light on facts, acts, behaviours and omissions that have led to the known failures, without any desire to fulfil the tasks of the judicial authority. Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the 6th Commission for their hard work and, in the positive view of this measure, Mr Forza Italia will vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u128	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, this is certainly not the forum for a comprehensive intervention on the global crisis that has invested the banking system around the world on several occasions. Of course, however, we can say, without fear of being denied, that compared to the most violent wave of instability, our system reacted more slowly, it reacted late. They weighed political choices that could be made in the right times, that is, when other European countries made them and Italy did not. So today we are facing the most delicate moment after others, beginning with France and Germany, have saved hundreds of billions and after, once those needs have been settled, the rules of the bail in have come into force. And we, Italy, as is widely known, have not met those needs, when, for example, Germany in the years of the crisis and before the entry into force of the bail in, put 247 billion euros public to save its institutions. To be precise, half of Europe has been using public funds since 2008 to help its banks: in addition to Germany, there are the United Kingdom which has allocated more than 162 billion euros, Spain more than 52, Ireland 42, Greece 40, the Netherlands 36, Austria 28 and so on. Directive 2014/59 does not suddenly emerge with the bail in, but was approved on 15 April 2014 on a motion by the Swedish Gunnar Hökmark after long years of discussion and with a very large parliamentary majority in Brussels. It is in this European context, and with the Italian crisis unsolved by previous Executives, that the Renzi Government before, and the Gentiloni Government Silveri now, they have found themselves acting, operating. It is precisely during the thousand days of that Executive that many measures have been taken and voted on by this Assembly, on the banking system, starting with that reform, which has been the subject of a debate that has lasted twenty years, which has changed the discipline of popular banks. I wonder, and I ask you, what could have happened to the Italian banking system, even in terms of the risks of contagion and panic among savers, if the government had not promptly implemented the reform of the popular banks? What could have happened if the governance of the popular banks had not finally been modified, thus putting an end to that model of self-referential and unchangeable summits over time that has also favoured several cases of evil management? The reform that the Renzi Government approved at the time was requested by Minister Ciampi with the Director General of the Treasury Draghi. We are not afraid, indeed we are proud to say that our government of that time and this parliamentary group, even in the face of the explosion of the collapse of the Bank of the Marches, the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio, the savings bank of Ferrara and the savings bank of the province of Chieti, have done everything they could to save the accountants and then to compensate the bondholders. The reality is that the rescue of the four regional banks has secured the savings of about one million accountants and bondholders for a value of about 12 billion euros. In addition, the Government has also prepared, in line with European standards and after a binding negotiation with Brussels, significant repayment measures for the small subordinated bondholders affected. And it is still with pride that we claim that it was precisely the Democratic Party that presented the first bill for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the banking system. It was the days immediately prior to the Christmas holidays of 2015, and was the first bill, among the many that were presented later, practically by all the parliamentary groups. I remember that well because that bill was my first signature and called for the establishment of a Commission of inquiry not only on the four banks in question, but also on the most significant crises in recent years, in recent decades. With regard to the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, let me say that the PD, here and in this House, also goes to the head for the intervention decided by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, with the decree-law defined save Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which created a fund of 20 billion precisely to protect savings, not only for the Sienese story. We must then be satisfied, as parliamentary groups, with majority and opposition, that we have reached this point anyway, namely the approval of a Commission which will have the task of verifying the effects of the global financial crisis on the banking system, as well as the management of banking institutions that have remained involved in crisis or disaster situations and have been or are addressed, even indirectly, to public resources or have been put into resolution. A Commission that will have to strengthen the system, and not weaken it, a Commission that still has the noble task of deepening, in the name and on behalf of savers, in order to highlight the errors, the faults and the most profound distortions, which have involved the banks as a whole in recent years. There are also all the conditions for the Commission to have time to work, to look into all the issues on the agenda. In this regard, I hope that the House's colleagues will be able to act as soon as possible and perhaps - I hope so - without further amending such a laboriously defined text. It's easy to sneak up on banks in talk shows. On the contrary, it is difficult to tackle problems seriously, to put our face on them and to seek concrete solutions, yet it is a decisive challenge for the whole country and must be played face-to-face. We can do this because we have nothing to hide, because we have done with clarity everything that could be done in view of the situation. It is important to investigate in depth the real responsibilities, at all institutional, political, managerial and management levels: the months that separate us from the end of the legislature will allow serious and systematic work, I am sure. AIROLA (M5S). That's why they won't vote for you anymore! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u129	Senator Airola! Mr Marcucci (PD). For us the word "transparency" is an indispensable concept. I repeat it out loud: transparency. And I hope it is for everyone. A special thanks to the members of the 6th Commission, to President Marino - today the rapporteur - for the work carried out and in particular for the massive effort made with the survey, which leaves a wealth of knowledge and insight that will be very useful for the Commission of Inquiry. In conclusion, the sense of responsibility has brought us the measures of these years. Looking to the future will - I hope - lead us to the law on economic citizenship and financial training in schools. The love for justice, the need to understand, the desire for transparency, lead the PD Group to vote yes to the proposed establishment of this Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u130	[[Applause from the PD and Art. 1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u132	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u133	CASINI (AP-CpE). Mr President, I would like to say briefly that I do not want to vote in favour of the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry. I have always considered the proliferation of committees of inquiry to be a disease in Parliament. Most of the time, in order to satisfy the vanity of some Members who ask for it, or for scenic representations of problems that the legislator can deal with in other ways, all we do is set up Committees of Inquiry. Only in this parliamentary term, between committees of inquiry and special committees, I would say that there are no fewer than twenty. In my opinion, the Committees of Inquiry should be handled with greater institutional care, avoiding them taking on the role of a sounding board of polemics among the parties; exactly the opposite of what is being done today. It is enough to have listened to the debate and the explanations of vote to understand that, in the presence of an end to the parliamentary term and an extenuating electoral campaign that we are going to set up, the Commission of Inquiry risks being the fertile ground of a long electoral campaign, carried out on the shoulders of Italian savings and savers. A concentrate and a mixture of demagogy and about that in my opinion, beyond the intentions of which we fall (the best in the world) will produce nothing good for the institutions. Mr Marcucci, I have heard your explanation of vote and I have to say that I have shared the reform that Renzi's government has done, I have voted for it in this House, I am glad I have done so and if I go back I would take it back. However, I do not see why - and this will inevitably happen - this whole political issue must end, together with other political issues, in order to be at the centre of an improper debate in an inappropriate forum such as that Committee of Inquiry. I must say that I wanted to vote against, but the statement by Senator Luigi Marino, made on behalf of my Group, which was impeccable in my opinion, causes me not to take part in the vote, not before I reiterated my disagreement with this method. We continue on the path of demagogy, we remain transparent, but these Commissions established in this way will produce everything, except transparency and loyalty in institutional behavior, which is what the country needs. [[Applause from the GroupAP-CpE and Senator Lanzillotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u135	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u136	SACCONI (AP-CpE). Mr President, I will be voting against this measure by my group for the same reasons as Senator Casini has just stated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u137	We shall now proceed to the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 624, 895, 1020, 2160, 2163, 2175, 2178, 2187, 2196, 2197, 2202, 2547 and 2591, in the amended text, with the following title: "Institute of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Banking and Financial System" (continued the vote). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, documents XXII, Nos. 30 and 37.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u140	MARINO Mauro Maria, rapporteur. Mr President, I would just like to express my thanks to the Offices, to the majority and minority colleagues and also to those who have made a valuable contribution to the hearings over a year of work. Without them all, we would not have achieved this. (Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u143	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to address the issue of the full application of Article 14 of the Special Statute for Sardinia, which provides that: The Region, within its territory, succeeds in the property and property rights of the State of real estate and state property, excluding maritime property. Goods and rights related to state-owned services and tax monopolies shall remain with the State as long as this condition lasts. On the basis of this article, Sardinia has claims against the State and on this requires an urgent commitment of the Government and the most involved ministries, such as those of the economy and finance and defence and justice. Any property that loses its original function must necessarily move to the capital responsibility of the Region, which, by virtue of its own laws, normally transfers these properties to the local authorities of Sardinia, for the pursuit of economic development objectives. A part of the overall development of the whole island can go through the valorization of this heritage, which must not only be led to legitimate property, according to constitutional rule, but above all must become the subject of specific projects duly financed. In this picture falls the former surrounding house of Cagliari, which has been abandoned with respect to this original function, which has carried out continuously since the nineteenth century and for the whole of the twentieth century. Those walls, which have witnessed so much suffering, but also so many moments of true humanity and active solidarity, can be usefully transformed, especially because of the needs that have been posed by the citizenship of Cagliari, into a reality of great historical and cultural value and great economic perspective. Witness to the tragic history of so many lives, which have been forced into the cells of what was called an urban cayenne, the former prison of Buoncamino, which rises on the homonymous hill, can be a good basis for testing a general program of initiatives for the productive valorization of the regional public heritage pursuant to the aforementioned Article 14. In this sense we have urged and urge the Government, and in particular the Ministries of Economics and Justice, to participate actively to start a discussion table with the Region, the City of Cagliari and the Metropolitan City.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u146	RUTA (PD). Mr President, with this late sitting speech I continue today in the Senate a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. In the night between March 28 and 29 in Santa Maria Capua Vetere, in the province of Caserta, Gerarda Di Pietro, seventy-seven years old, was killed by ax by her husband, who then committed suicide by jumping off the balcony. In the night between the 2nd and 3rd April in Caltagirone, in the province of Catania, Patrizia Formica, forty-seven years old, was killed in her sleep with four hammer strokes from her partner, who then formed himself in the barracks of the Carabinieri, confessing the crime. This is how 49 women we remember in this relay, started only on June 30, 2016. The data presented by ISTAT at the end of March at the conference "Violence on women: the data and tools for assessing gender violence" tell us that feminicide is only the tip of the iceberg of male violence against women. In Italy there are more than 8 million women victims of psychological violence and 4 million women who have suffered, throughout their lives, degrading and humiliating sexual acts, unwanted and suffered relationships such as violence, abuse or serious physical sexual harassment, such as rapes (653,000) and attempted rapes (746,000). 20 percent of women between the ages of 16 and 70 were instead victims of physical violence, threats, slaps, fists, kicks. In a minority of cases, 1.5%, these violence has led to serious and permanent damage, by strangulation, burn, suffocation. Let us make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013 and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. An appeal to the country, men and women: more than 120 women were killed in 2016, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD and Art.1-MDP groups and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u149	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, the Tuscany Region has decided to participate in the Turin Book Fair, to be held from 18 to 22 May 2017. So on March 30 he sent an invitation to all the Tuscan publishers, asking who wanted to participate, guest of the Tuscan booth, to somehow bring to know the reality of Tuscany and a little 'all the Tuscan system. I read in the invitation that we talk about "biblitudediversity" and therefore I imagine something that also offers more detailed readings. This invitation also comes to the publisher AB Edizioni, i.e. the publisher of a book that I brought you to the Hall, "Sevent of State", written by Duccio Tronci and Francesco Pini on the community "Il Forteto". As soon as they presented this book, strangely the Tuscany Region said it is not about those books that you want to talk about. Now I hope - and I hope with all my heart - that the denial is not related to the topic, that is to say to the Forteto, but is only due to the fact that the Tuscany Region wants to bring serious things. Can we talk about the Tuscan banks at the Salone del libro in Turin? Not at all. So one says, what are we talking about, territory? I don't know why the productions are dropping and we record enormous hydrogeological damage. I therefore invite the Region of Tuscany to make a serious reflection, because - in my opinion - to present a book like this and to make known to all Italy what happened to the Forteto would be a great opportunity to exploit to prevent similar facts manifest themselves in other places. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u152	MORRA (M5S). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of a serious situation which has been taking place for some time now at the gates of Cosenza, particularly in the pre-Sulan belt, where, since 27 March, a situation of serious discomfort has become acute in the celic landfill. This dump has a very particular history, of which the judiciary has also been interested, as is obvious in these situations, also because, being a private landfill, thanks to the society that manages it (the Miga Srl, behind which there is the Vrenna family of Crotone), it is possible to do craps - let's say things as they are - by way of derogation from what the law lays down, thanks to the so-called amendment Orsomarso - from the name of who presented it - in its time opposed by the current majority, which today instead has proposed and voted it again. As you know, in fact, these are things that must be fought in words, but which in fact are useful to many people. Very well, but it is precisely during these hours that I have a duty to draw the House's attention to a fact. I come from Calabria, which I know is a region of which few are interested and which is in dramatic conditions, but it is also Italy. In the last hours has exploded again tension to the port of Gioia Tauro, because MCT, as had announced, has sent 400 letters of dismissal to its workers that wait to transit in the company for the administration of the job in port. Too bad that the minister Graziano Delrio, several times urged from the undersigned, has forgotten to name the President of the Authority of harbour system. This authority is therefore acefala, politically speaking, and cannot negotiate strongly with MCT, with the consequence that the latter dumps on the weakest link of the chain, that is, the labour force (we are talking about 400 families, that is, the Plain of Gioia Tauro), a huge discomfort that hides the will to make further profits. Therefore, I ask Minister De Vincenti, Minister Delrio and also Council President Gentiloni Silveri to take responsibility for situations that cannot be postponed any longer. I cannot ask the President of the Oliverio Region, because to this day he has proved completely incapable of providing for the needs and above all the protection of the rights of the Calabrians, in particular those of the Plain of Gioia Tauro, but also of the citizens of the Presila who - I repeat - demand a redebate of the integrated environmental authorization, since our Constitution stipulates that all of us must see our right to health recognized. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u153	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-800.ana.u154	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, April 5, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.33.
