ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). I would remind you that yesterday's afternoon sitting did not approve the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 30 March. Therefore, before we proceed to the reading of the Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting, the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 30 March must be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. I pray to colleagues who still have to withdraw their rush card. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put to the vote the minutes of the afternoon sitting of 30 March. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u8	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, since I did not see my hands raised during the vote on the Minutes, we are asking for a counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u9	Senator Santangelo, I do not think it is necessary to proceed with the counter-test because the Secretary Senators were able to see the outcome of the vote. However, your observation is correct. When voting for a show of hands, I invite my colleagues to raise their hands. The Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u13	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put to the vote the minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u14	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u15	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2756, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Lai, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is called upon to speak at second reading, after the vote by a very large majority in the House, on the decree-law before our examination, which provides for further urgent measures in favour of the populations affected by the seismic events of recent months. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, considered it essential to approve it without any new changes to ensure its conversion into law, sharing its urgency and content, within the time limits set, while pointing out the need to address some other needs of the territories already emerged, in part already mature and, in part, in the process of being defined. Choosing between urgency and completion of the rules is always complex and, especially in the face of a tragedy such as that which has struck our fellow citizens, every response still appears delayed despite the efforts of every Body of the State, which is giving the maximum to comfort and assist the affected populations. It is the third decree-law in order of time, the first two unified in the approval here to the Senate, tied first to the new seismic events of January that have affected the territory already hit in August and October: the Lazio, Marche, Abruzzo and Umbria Regions, with a growing territorial extension. All the measures are linked not only to the need to respond - of course - to the expectations of thousands of citizens so hard tested by the catastrophic event, but also to the need to combine reconstruction with a vision of development that invests on the quality of the territories and on the strength of the local communities. This new decree-law provides for new measures aimed at extending the rules already approved for the reconstruction to the territories affected by the earthquake last January and the climatic events that have been added during the winter in the same territories, but allows to update, optimize, clarify and strengthen what already provided in the previous measure for the entire area of the earthquake. For this reason, the new rules that, in addition to providing for the enlargement of the Municipalities included in the crater and the involvement of 16,000 other people, make it possible to do the following: simplify and accelerate the procedures for emergency management and the start of reconstruction; give more tools to the Municipalities to make more effective and timely the activity they are carrying out slowly and adequately; help the weakest groups with income support; support national parks as a tool for the conservation and promotion of the territory and the environment; strengthen the businesses and economic activities already established, including those damaged by indirect damage, with particular reference to tourism and trade and, at the same time, promote the conditions for new investments. It is precisely in this latter direction that there are development contracts, incentives for the purchase of machinery and structures, through the extension of the tax credit provided for in the Mezzogiorno, and measures for agriculture, which focus both on seismic zones and those affected by disasters in January. The decree-law then allows to increase the financing for seismic risk; it facilitates the restarting of school activities, an important signal of recovery of normality; it improves the speed of the interventions to remove the rubble and the waste system; it intervenes on the health and judicial system; finally, not least in importance, it allocates for the next ten years the proceeds of the 8 per thousand state share aimed at cultural assets to the recovery and reconstruction of the artistic and cultural assets of the territories affected by earthquakes: a far-sighted choice, this one, which engages the whole country in the reconstruction of those territories. There are a number of articles on speeding up and simplifying procedures, some of which I would like to mention. Article 1 provides that the Extraordinary Commissioner shall promote a plan to equip municipalities affected by seismic events with seismic microzonation studies at level 3. Article 1 also provides for the possibility for the dioceses located in the affected municipalities to proceed, at the same time as the security interventions already planned, to carry out further interventions, which allow the reopening of ecclesial structures to the public and the faithful. Still on the simplification front, Article 2 states that the Regions and local authorities of Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria can entrust primary and secondary urbanization works related to emergency structures, using not the ordinary procedure, but the negotiated one, without prior publication of the notice. Article 6 deals with the functions of the Permanent Conference and the Regional Conferences, providing that the approval of the executive projects of public works and cultural heritage covers only the interventions of the Special Commissioner and the Ministers for Cultural Heritage and Activities, Infrastructure and Transport. Article 7 instead contains provisions on the treatment and transport of materials arising from reconstruction operations and entrusts to the Presidents of the Regions the tasks of waste and rubble management, which the previous text attributed to the special commissioner, when the size and extent of the damage was more limited. Finally, Article 13 provides to speed up the compilation of AeDES cards, also extending to professional technicians and not only to municipal technicians the ability to carry out the post-seismic agibility checks of buildings and structures affected by seismic events. The local authorities are provided, among others, with an increase in staff (already employed by Regions, Provinces, Municipalities and other regional or local administrations) used for reconstruction activities in the territories affected by the earthquake through Article 18, while another article recognizes to the mayors of the municipalities under the 5.000 inhabitants engaged in reconstruction the function allowance of the group of municipalities between 10,000 and 30.000 inhabitants, recognizing to these the difficulties linked to the fact that they cannot carry out any other work during the whole phase of the reconstruction. For the citizens affected by the earthquake, there is article 10, which improves support for the weak sections of the population, authorising, also for 2017, access to the national measure to combat poverty, with requirements and maximum limit of the value of the ISEE that take into account the impoverishment suffered by the populations of the earthquake zones. Article 12 extends, for 2017, the operation of all measures to support the income of citizens who were introduced until 2016 in favour of certain workers who had to stop working as a result of the earthquake. Article 11 amends the rules on tax compliance and payments, while with the interests provided for in other articles they suspend the obligations for the ecotax and for the mortgages, postponing for one year all the deadlines, especially those related to the capital part of the mortgages of citizens and enterprises. Always addressed to citizens - I quote because it had been pointed out in the debate at the Senate in December on the occasion of the approval of the previous decree - is the content of Article 14 that allows the acquisition of buildings already built, even private, for residential use for the assistance of the population to the heritage of public housing, to be used as an alternative solution to those currently provided for temporary accommodation of the population. On the part of business and economic fabric, three articles are to be reported. The House of Deputies has introduced a new article 7-a, which introduces facilities to facilitate the productive recovery of enterprises in the tourism sector, related services, public establishments and commerce and crafts, as well as agritourism enterprises, provided that they have been established for at least six months before earthquakes. Article 15 contains all additional provisions for the support and development of agricultural, agri-food and zootechnical holdings. In particular, the expenditure of almost EUR 21 million is authorised, for 2017, in favour of the bovine, sheep and pig sector, and the expenditure of EUR 2 million for the equine sector. These are advances that AGEA will make and that can be reinstated later, by 31 December 2018. Moreover, the areas affected by the earthquake are also favoured for the rules and facilities related to the development of entrepreneurship in agriculture and the generational turnover. These agricultural enterprises are in this way supported by companies located in the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, which have also suffered damage due to the climatic adversities of exceptional intensity occurred in the period from 5 to 25 January 2017, and which have not signed insurance policies facilitated to cover the risks. On the subject of the smooth running of school activities, Article 4 specifies certain elements concerning the possibility of completing the school year and the improvement of the structures which have been damaged. Articles 16 and 17 intervene on system elements, because they specify elements relating to the activity of the local judicial system and I quote again Article 17-a, which postpones the application of the new health standards for two years, such as the article that meets local populations because it provides for a plan for the extraordinary distribution of medicines for small communities. It is a set of four emergent system interventions that are certainly the result of new needs emerged in the subsequent work of these months. There are also some articles that intervene on the previous earthquakes of Abruzzo, Umbria, Emilia-Romagna or Lombardy for legislative adjustments made necessary over time. I quote this because it shows that it is not possible to define once and for all the necessary interventions in the event of such large earthquakes or disasters so disastrous, but that even the most efficient and competent intervention then requires a constant adaptation and recognition of the needs, a sort of maintenance of the emerging legislative system. In general, the decree-law addresses many issues that the Senate had already examined during the debate on the first two decree-laws in November and December. In this case the themes were inserted directly by the Government, in the original text of the decree-law, or through modifications operated by the Chamber of Deputies. I am referring to issues such as the deductibility of income taxes and the deductibility of corporate income of donations made by means of a solidarity number, the simplified provisions on the treatment of rubble and the adjustment of allowances to mayors unable to carry out other work and professional activities. These are just a few examples of issues that the Senate had already discussed and addressed, but which it had not been able to translate into legislation. In the same way, after the adoption of the decree-laws, the need - certainly significant - for a clarification on access to the procedural suspensions, especially in the large cities, has been pointed out. There have been other reports, shared by several parliamentary groups, that it was not possible to accept in the text of the measure, but that they were the subject of agendas that were shared and approved and that did not prevent the conversion, occurred to a very large majority of the Senate, of the two previous decrees-laws. This measure has also been widely shared by the House of Deputies, confirming the high sensitivity of all parliamentary groups on this issue. Madam President, I shall conclude. In the measure still not completely dissolved some nodes - few - that the Government, in the course of the reply, will be able to clarify, considering the opportunity to make commitments that will allow, in particular the local authorities, to prepare to operate accordingly, even if there is no specific legislative rule contained in the measure under consideration. Firstly, the issue of exclusion from public finance constraints, i.e. from the final balance of competence, should be mentioned for the years 2017 and 2018 for the municipalities affected. It is clear that these municipalities will not be able to comply with the principle of balanced budgets and a rule will be required to quantify and cover them. In the same way, the municipalities must always be given the opportunity to commit, during the provisional financial year, additional expenses beyond those of urgency, concerning the interventions provided for in the civil protection orders or issued by the Special Commissioner. In both cases, reasonable rules should be accompanied by a quantification of the coverage required under public accounting. On the revenue side, compensation for the loss of TARI revenue and the extension of the use of cash advances in relation to the current rules, up to half of the revenue suspended, must still be provided to cover the resulting cash requirements. Finally, there is an issue, already put in the previous debate at the Senate, which recalls a new reflection on urban planning, concerning the opportunity or possibility to allow additional volumes destined to emergency structures replacing housing in areas with strong seismicity, in order to mitigate the effects resulting from the loss of the main housing following an earthquake. This is also an unsolved issue which we are being told about, and on which particular attention must be paid to urban planning. Finally, in the background, there is still a strong demand for discussion in the Commission, which was also mentioned on a first-signed agenda by my colleague, Mr Uras, approved by the Commission, on the need for framework legislation on post-earthquake reconstruction or natural post-calamity. It is clear that a disaster of the size of an earthquake can never end up in a single piece of legislation. It is also true that, in any case, these rules require financial cover commensurate with the size of the damage and the number of people involved who must be compensated and protected. It is equally clear that different situations may require more or less extensive approaches, due to the condition of the territory and its vocation. I am thinking of the financing of the reconstruction of the second houses, necessary in this case to keep intact the urban, economic and social housing fabric. On the one hand, however, the awareness that an organisational experience has stabilized and consolidated following the two earthquakes of Abruzzo and Emilia, on the other hand, the need to make transparent the right available to each individual citizen or enterprise in the face of natural disasters leads to force the Government, the competent Commission and the entire Assembly to reflect on the possibility of writing and approving, in the coming months, a framework to which to refer and from which to leave whenever necessary, avoiding the risk that written rules each time from the beginning can lead to think of different treatments according to the territory or natural disaster that strikes him. I quote, before inviting the House to approve, two issues which appear to be minor at first sight, but which I believe have already been represented on the agenda and which deserve the attention of this House. The first is as follows: the new decree-law, with article 7-a, intervenes with facilities that serve the tourism sector. But it is not clear, in a context in which religious tourism is one of the main economic sources, whether this support can guarantee not only ordinary businesses, but also tourist professions, such as guides, who have faced and suffered obvious damage in this context. As some Groups ask and place the theme of the establishment of the ZES, that is a special economic zone, which the Government has given willingness to evaluate, on which, however, there are still unknowns to be dissolved and peculiarities to be specified in European. This is a step forward. It will not be the last on the subject of this huge earthquake and this huge catastrophe, but it certainly allows to respond to the theme of the extension of the territory due to the last earthquake and natural disasters that have overlapped on these territories and to dissolve some nodes that had been left open by the previous decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u18	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u19	Madam President, on 1 April the citizens of the areas of Central Italy affected by the earthquake actually went to the square, both in Rome and in different places of the crater, confirming that all in all, despite the third decree-law, those living in those areas are telling you that nothing has been done. Indeed, for those who visited them, there is a situation of abandonment and even a bit of despair, because citizens are tired of reading figures referring to resources that should come with the various decree-laws and that then due to the delay of the implementing decrees arrive with the dropper, and also from Europe there is no trace of it. After seven months the rubble is still there, it has not been removed, and the vast majority of citizens are forced to live on the coast. The road is still and also this third decree-law on the earthquake, although it brings some improvement, is not absolutely resolving. So while the resources of the first two decree-laws are still largely unused, as well as the various money that citizens have given, we come to this third decree-law. The most important defeat of this third measure is the disappearance of free zones, because of agreements - it is said - that must be done in advance with the European Union. The article was in the first draft of the decree-law, but it was deleted; it provided in summary to establish free zones for 2017 and 2018 in the crater territories. Now the promise is that these free zones will be established in the coming months, but let's say that the promises must be kept sooner or later. We have talked about support for the weak, those with families and with ISEE less than 6,000 euros, which is recognised as paper purchases. The history of paper purchases is a bit sad, because in fact it is simply the help referred to in law n. 208 of 28 December 2015 (more technically article 1, paragraph 387, letter a)). This decree makes it a gift not to include in the ISEE, which is already quite low, the value of the main house and of all the buildings destroyed by the earthquake. This seems to me to be the minimum trade union, since these people no longer have the home and therefore this value should not be introduced into the ISEE. That of the decree-law in question is therefore a help to the weak really ridiculous, also because 6,000 euros of ISEE are a very low figure for those who no longer have anything. There is also another aspect: this aid has a limit of EUR 41 million, and it is not clear what happens if families in difficulty need a higher figure. On the other hand, there are exemptions from the RAI fee, but only for those who can prove that they no longer have a TV. But it is not clear how such people show that they do not have a television set. By the way, I believe that having a television set is a means of survival, because in a trailer watching television serves to know, for example, the weather forecast, it will snow and what will happen. I believe that exempting all earthquake victims from the RAI canon would have been more civilized. With regard to the payment of taxes, both for payments last year and for payments due from 1 January to 31 December 2017, holders of income from undertakings and self-employed persons, as well as operators of agricultural activities, may request financing assisted by the State guarantee to be granted by 30 November 2017. Similar speech also for the payment of the dues for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. In short, if you owe money to the state, ask for a loan in the bank; the state guarantees, the citizen gets into debt and the bank earns it. That too, my lords, is not acceptable. Finally, thanks to an amendment arrived at the last moment in the Chamber, at the head of Palazzo Chigi a new department (Casa Italia), which will be empty and useless and will only serve to appoint other management figures and to spend money on bureaucracy. But the bureaucracy is the one that killed the people of the crater and that didn't allow them to recover. It would have been much better to create a directing booth involving committees and volunteers, that is the only ones who have been really helpful throughout this period. We come to the agricultural economy, which is fundamental to the areas affected by the earthquake, because it is of that kind of economy that we lived. The figures for the failure of this Executive are unfortunately bleak: there are 25,000 farms and stables in the 131 earthquake-stricken municipalities of Lazio, Marche, Umbria and Abruzzo, with 292,000 hectares of agricultural land. This gives us a measure of how this area lived of agricultural economy. It means the presence of farms with nearly 65,000 cattle, 40,000 sheep and over 11,000 pigs, with an agro-food input including dairy, cold cuts and oil mills. The collapse of stables, barns, cheese factories and the slaughter of animals have unfortunately severely limited the economy of these areas. These are the data provided by the trade associations. In this regard there was a huge confusion, because the institutions told us that everything was fine, while the professional associations and the citizens we met told us that it was not true. In fact, from the data of the main associations of category we learn that, after the winter, in the areas of the crater of the earthquake there are only thirty-three stables able to accommodate the animals, about the 1,400 necessary. Despite the fact that these stables have been installed, they are not yet operational, because in some there are no light and no water and there are no services. Since animals are living beings, it is not enough to build the stable to make them survive. To date, due to the bureaucracy, almost nine out of every ten animals (85 percent) cannot be housed in the temporary stables announced and the breeders still do not know where to hospitalize cows, pigs and sheep survived, forced to the cold, with the risk of getting sick and dying. Milk production has fallen by 30%, due to the stress of such animals. A small positive aspect is that the deadline for the submission of applications for support to the stables affected by the earthquake, which allocate contributions for each animal, has been extended to 10 April 2017. I conclude by stressing that this decree-law is not enough at all. We are in an emergency situation and we need to re-establish the road, commit ourselves to having a free zone and give support to these people who have only received promises and bureaucracy from the current Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u21	Madam President, the decree-law before us marks the government's total stalemate on the reconstruction of the earthquake that began on 24 August last year and continues, with several replies, until this year, with the damage that we all know. We would never have liked to see the demonstrations in the streets of the people affected by the earthquake, because we would have liked to perceive the solutions, which unfortunately have not been there. Those spontaneous protests were the result of the exasperation of a hardworking population, living in areas with their own economy, accustomed to producing, creating and doing. These people have seen every promise go up in smoke, they have seen every initiative blocked, they have recorded the presence of a slow bureaucratic machine and ready to stop any initiative. A territory starts again if its economic activities restart. Above all, the many producers in the area felt betrayed in their desire to do, in their desire to roll up their sleeves anyway and start over again. Those hardworking populations and the territorial and economic opportunities, which in recent years have allowed them to design an activity, to build it, to grow it, to make the goods and services offered more competitive, have had to clash with a clear decrease in the attractiveness of what was being proposed. This, for obvious reasons, is found both in the affected areas directly, and in those close to the crater, because we have seen the expansion of the area and the connection infrastructures affected by the damage, initially caused by the earthquake and then by an absolutely ruthless bad weather, and at the same time there has been an increasing number of activities and people involved, even outside the crater. The reasons were, therefore, both logistical and market, but the damage was enormous. We think of the tourism and the infinite charm that this area of Central Italy has exercised in Italy and in the world: we have before our eyes the villages and churches destroyed, which - for now - will not attract anyone. Around those historical and natural beauties were born and prospered receptive and catering activities, which now suffer obvious damage, now for seven months, as well as suffer from the collapse of that business business all the induced economy and the manufacturing connected to them. After all these months, in the face of the stalemate of reconstruction - which follows an emergency managed in an approximate manner and which has seen most people spend the winter under tents - one must restore dignity to those people. It is necessary to bring back to normal those who want to rebuild and return to living in their own territory and not in other areas. Those who want to continue producing must not only be given the hope, but must see the economic and fiscal conditions in order to do so. Therefore, all measures must be taken: from those at state level, to those that need a connection with EU legislation, to the necessary arrangements between the Government and the territorial authorities to simplify the procedures, allocate the resources and get them to their destination. In this regard it must be said immediately that in the decree-law to our examination of resources there are few and not by chance the protests were subsequent to the issuing of the decree itself. Those people, my people, saw in the provision at our examination a betrayed hope. In the same way, very little had been allocated by the last budget law, which had intended to plan a reconstruction in a period of more than thirty years, careless of the fact that in December it was still in a state of emergency. Now we have learned of additional resources, announced by Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri, that will be indicated in the Document of Economy and Finance (DEF) that is about to be presented, equal to one billion euros in three years. We hope that, as the number three is mentioned, it is not yet another "three card game." The money announced so far was in fact always the same, which passed from one chapter of the state budget to the other. Certainly the 23 million euros put on the field now to compensate economic activities do not photograph the damage suffered by the many small and very small producers. We are in the presence of a myriad of activities that are medium-sized, often family-run, even in agricultural areas, which are almost firm due to the lack of demand for their products and services. And therefore it must be put at the center of the policy of reconnaissance of the damages and of interventions, also an action that must be planned and lasting for the economic revival of our territory. If he did not share the economy of those territories, those areas would be destined, alas, to depopulate. And let us imagine that, having in recent months visited our regions several important men of state and institutions, they were able to perceive, in person, the tragic situation in which they came across. We must now open a new door to the European institutions. We must demand that we overcome the bottlenecks in the European rules on State aid. With the Industry Commission here in the Senate, we have identified, through a resolution adopted unanimously, by Fabbri and Pelino, a series of avenues that can lead to a more precise application of the European rules on income loss and compensation quotas applicable in these cases, and we have proposed them with a timely agenda approved in the Commission. We believe that the Government must take responsibility for the pursuit of these objectives and for achieving the greatest possible result from Europe, including through derogations or interpretations of the Treaties and regulations, which enable us to fully assess European investment programmes and times. Then there is the need to take measures to defer payments or instalments of loans or loans. Just as we need a different approach to the issue of credit in an area where savings have always been a strength of those hardworking citizens and where the banking system has always had a strength. Now, as you would say in banking terms, you have to give back with interest to these people, what you have given in years ago. But first of all you have to remove every block to the reconstruction and start the yards. Italy, historically, has always spread with new impetus from the new yards. It must be said, however, that before disposing of inert materials collapsed with the earthquake that still block the alleys of the historic centers and some road connection, bureaucracy must be disposed of. It is not acceptable that the discharge of responsibility on the interpretations of environmental legislation, between regional environmental agencies and authorities of the territory, blocks any work of removal of rubble and effectively prevents the departure of reconstruction. Without the construction sites that bring those cities and villages back to life, which the whole world envys us, it is not even possible to think of a return to normality. Normality also means, first of all, returning to all types of infrastructure - via the road or via the Internet - that guarantee a timely connection with the rest of the Italian territory, but I could say with the rest of the world, because of the specificity of certain products required from everywhere. We realize the difficulties, just as we do not underestimate the presence of the appetites of criminal organizations, but nothing can justify this stalemate. A serious state must find the resources to support its citizens affected by a disaster of this kind, must put them on the ground and must make them pay, because the first they leave the areas affected by the earthquake and the first they leave, with them, the whole country. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u22	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary De Micheli, today's decree to the attention of the Assembly, as the rapporteur Silvio Lai has well explained, whom I thank for the summary work he has done on this, as on the previous decree, intervenes to modify in several points the decree law n. 189 of 2016, that has governed the urgent interventions destined to the territories hit by seismic events started in August 2016 and whose scope has been extended also to the municipalities hit by the shocks of 26 and 30 October 2016. The emergency measures, in all three, are accompanied by a large number of civil protection orders adopted over the last few months, to which the Commissioner's measures for reconstruction have been added, which are giving, although laboriously, answers to the citizens and businesses affected. The Decree in question contains a series of measures to simplify and accelerate the ongoing procedures for the implementation of emergency structures and school buildings, to support the weak sections of the population, to strengthen the staff allocation used for reconstruction activities, as well as to extend certain tax obligations and to give businesses, self-employed persons and farmers the possibility to obtain subsidised funding for the payment of taxes up to the year 2018. These are concrete measures, as has already happened for other calamitous events, which complement and improve the responses already planned, adding new resources. In addition, the text of the Government was appropriately supplemented by measures that also affect other seismic events, such as the one that hit Emilia, Lombardy and Veneto in May 2012, or the earthquake that devastated L'Aquila and Abruzzo in 2009. This is the task of the legislator: to take timely measures to respond immediately after the events and, on the way, to maintain the legislative system, as the rapporteur, Mr Lai, has rightly pointed out. It is necessary, as we are doing now, for the second time, for the earthquake of Central Italy, just over seven months away from the tragic event. I say this in order to refute a thesis that I have heard not only supported by minorities in this Assembly, during the discussion of the previous decree on the earthquake in Central Italy, according to which it was necessary to maintain a sort of territorial homogeneity for the measures contained in the decree, which had to go well once and for all also in order not to risk depriving other territories of resources. There is nothing more wrong with both politically and in technical and legal terms. The proof gives us this text, which rightly intervenes to modify the norms collecting integrations in order to better respond to needs matured over time by reconstruction in Central Italy and in other territories of our country, as in Emilia, which in a little more than a month will celebrate the fifth year from that terrible earthquake. With regard to the earthquake, thanks to amendments tabled by colleagues in the House, it is possible to make payments directly to the subcontracting companies, in case the contractor is subject to agreement and measures are established in support of the social and economic holding of the territory. Article 3 provides for a series of measures aimed at providing subcontractors or suppliers with payments due in the case of works contracted to undertakings which have applied for admission to the arrangement with continuity of business. These are situations which we have witnessed and which are at risk of compromising reconstruction. The costs were mainly borne by subcontractors or suppliers, often small firms unable to cope with the impact of non-payment by the agreed contractor. It also introduces the possibility of renting, even to non-earthquake households, the buildings damaged by the earthquake already restored and renovated, since this type of requirement has, fortunately, decreased much over the years. In fact, earthquake families have returned to renovated homes or have found another location for rent. In this way it is guaranteed the possibility to the owners to rent their property anyway, but always with the constraint of the agreed rent, in order to revive the social fabric of the affected areas through a calm offer of houses. The new paragraphs of Article 3 provide for the possibility for administrations to recover contributions paid and not due for assistance to the population. Article 21- bis, finally, allows the President of the Lombardy Region, as delegated commissioner for the reconstruction, to extend the granting of contributions up to 205 million euros to all the purposes indicated in Decree-Law No 74 of 2012, relating to the reconstruction and repair of private houses and buildings for non-housing use and in favour of enterprises and the reconstruction and functionality of buildings and public services. These are important additional resources that allow the reconstruction of the public facility to continue. The approved integrations allow to intervene for the benefit of citizens and businesses in particular situations that have occurred in these years of post-sysm reconstruction to better continue and make it more effective and speedy or, as Pope Francis recommended us, Sunday, during his visit to Carpi and Mirandola, complete it quickly. Once again, it shows how the working method developed in Emilia in recent years continues to work. The link between citizens and businesses, local authorities, regions and parliamentarians is allowing to ensure adequate responses to the needs expressed by the territory affected by the earthquake. While other political forces prefer to shout out by exploiting difficulties and inconveniences of the citizens, the Democratic Party and its parliamentarians work to achieve concrete results. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u24	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State-Intensive Institute "Luigi Settembrini" in Rome and of the State-Including Institute "Giacomo Leopardi" in Messina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u26	Madam President, the decree-law introducing new urgent interventions in favour of the populations affected by earthquakes 2016-2017, which we are about to convert, presents some critical aspects. I will focus in particular on a number of considerations relating to the subject of the Commission's strict competence of which I am a member, but this is also a recent matter, given that the procurement code is still being discussed, which is currently being approved, but is waiting for final activation, while there are still no guidelines. However, there is already a thorough review and this is not normal, partly because, in fact, the work done in the Commission to improve the code itself is being frustrated. In this type of intervention, that is those resulting from an emerging event, whether seismic or another natural cataclysm or an artificial event, it is necessary to distinguish clearly the two phases of emergency management and the subsequent reconstruction or restoration of the places to the previous situation. In the emergency, that is in the immediacy of the event and in the following days, it is right to derogate from the normal procedures because you must immediately put people in safety, repair them in dry and warm places; instead, it is different to manage the reconstruction, because in this case you cannot and must not operate as a derogation to the laws and codes, because they are designed as guarantee procedures, respecting the free market and competition, but also and above all to give quality to honest prices in the realization of the works. They are guarantees of transparency that are forced less with emergency or commissioner management. Both designs and constructions must be done with tender procedures, with measures to eliminate company cartels or auction disruptions. We avoid direct trusts and the suspension of guarantees, because it is precisely this way of acting that makes certain entrepreneurs laugh at night. In recent years, in several natural events, we have unfortunately seen that the public buildings were the first to collapse (schools, hospitals, barracks): very few have been saved and some of them also had the anti-seismic certification or had just been renovated. These buildings must be real garrisons in case of emergency, so they must be built with attention and with particular measures and therefore cannot be realized at the maximum decrease, or with the minimum standards of law. They must have superior characteristics precisely because they must be able to withstand great calamities in order to be used as the first point of relief and shelter from the first moments following the cataclysm. It is therefore not acceptable to have a hasty and derogatory management of principles designed precisely for the realization by art and with all the Christs. The reconstruction must certainly take place in certain times but with the greatest possible care in all phases both design and construction, without shortcuts. The State must provide aid and support, but it must also be an example of good practice; it cannot act as an exception to the laws for reconstruction. With these reflections, I have dealt with the reading of the measure we are debating, and here we have three strands of derogations that I cannot agree with. The text in question first of all derogates from public consultation procedures, public debate and public investigation. All instruments that, as legislators, we wanted to strengthen in the new procurement code, code not yet fully in force, as we have already said. A second strand of derogations concerns the use of excavation earths and rocks and the removal of rubble. This issue has also been innovative in this parliamentary term, not too many months ago. And here, instead, it derogates from the current provisions and creates a shortcut for the management of the materials coming from the yards set up for the realization of the works connected to the emergency. In addition, it is possible to transport and store excavation materials at intermediate storage sites, where it is possible to imagine, given the laboriousness of the reconstruction, that controls on pollutants and criticalities of the material and storage areas are more bland. This is certainly a critical aspect, because if we talk about villages of not recent construction the presence of asbestos can be very important and also dangerous, therefore the problem must be handled with the greatest possible attention, both for the inhabitants and for the operators who work on the spot. Finally, the third strand of derogation concerns the application of the negotiated procedure without a call for tenders for all works leading to educational, educational or didactic education. This means that entire school complexes, worth millions of euros, can be rebuilt with direct custody. I must therefore repeat and invite you to reflect: yes to the short and certain times, but the respect of the legislation and the codes is fundamental because these laws are born with the aim of safeguarding the good realization of the works, so that they can resist the calamities and not reap victims to every shock. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u28	Madam President, we are about to adopt a state law and it is frankly disarming to know that the one we are considering is a law that contains amendments to another law that came into force in February. In Italy, then, two months after the adoption of a law, another radical change or integration is made. I correct myself: the law is December. With modesty, however, I emphasize the appeal, made in this decree-law to be converted, to the decree-law that dates back to October 2016. But we can never think that, in the face of a dramatic event such as the one we are dealing with, that is, a serious seismic event, we can systematically modify a law within days, thus throwing into dismay those who must interpret and implement it, and with the certainty of the following relapse: the absolute inability of concrete intervention; what those citizens instead ask and what they have absolute right to. That is the basic point: can we continue to change the legislation even overnight? The reality is what we are told: everything is immobile, nothing is done and I imagine the enormous amount of people who, as soon as we pass this law, will have to review what they had perhaps begun to understand in the two or three months before. This form of regulation is now unbearable. If we had limited ourselves to this, it would have been serious already, but unfortunately there is more. I would just like to say a few words about some of the content, because the law is a violation of such rules, which will lead me to a very precise conclusion. First of all, most of the rules introduced begin with the engraving of the derogation; therefore, it is a rule that changes that of a few months before and builds rules that even depart from the ordinary ones; how is that possible? If one could ever accept a rule that enters into force just two months later, it is totally unacceptable that the one that enters into force after is even a derogation from the existing legislation. One thing that certainly cannot be accepted and - be careful - the point is not that there is a rule by way of derogation, but that the most frequent engraving with which the paragraphs of the text begin at our examination is by way of derogation. How can you think of such a thing? There are also some points that are frankly irritating. There is, for example, a burden on Article 7-b which amounts to EUR 190.118; in a measure involving public finance in the order of many hundreds of millions or billions, there is a need to make a law for EUR 190.118. This means that the rule that existed could not begin to work because there were 190,118 euros missing. It would have been enough to read the current accounting law to understand that this was not necessary, but the high bureaucrats we are talking about do not even read the law and, when they read it, interpret it badly and always against the citizens. From this conclusion it would be easy to conclude that it is necessary to reduce the number of apical bureaucrats. No, you don't. The measure that we are going to approve, in Article 18-a, gives the possibility for a project that I think is called "Casa Italia" (Home Italy) - Madam President, these words for me, which are, as you know, a farmer, are very difficult to interpret - to hire new apical leaders. There is a drama there and every further fulfillment serves only to delay the time of intervention. Do you really feel the need for such recruitment in Italy - excuse me for the tragic and even rhetorical emphasis - to ensure the immediate operation of the said department, without prejudice to the organic endowment? We felt the need to reassure those who are there, those who remain, when, in my opinion, given the result, we do not even feel the need for those? And, on the other hand, without prejudice to the organic staff of non-directive level and loan staff quotas for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the managerial staff of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers has increased by three positions of general level and four positions of non-general level. Something you can't tell. If people were to read this text, with all their patience, they would not be able to accept the fact that a law was passed in December, but it could not come into force because there were three positions at a general level and four at a non-general level. As if there were no digestive tracts walking through the streets of Rome every morning! Not only that. Given the obvious mass of executives, it is known from the studies of all time that this will tend to defend itself, to justify its existence and, in this way, to slow down the processes that instead are necessary to go quickly; and then other than rule by way of derogation to something! There will be new executives who will have to do new things and ask for more staff, because they will be a little tight or need people because there will not be enough. I should like to conclude, Madam President, otherwise it would not really be acceptable, but I would ask you to pay attention to one aspect. In the text it is expected that this new management staff, referred to in paragraph 3, will be paid a certain amount of money: you too, Madam President, will know all the controversies that are being made about our emoluments; I would therefore like to make it known to the people who are circulating for those programs that I think are called talk shows, but I am not sure that I have said it well in English. [[Senator Santini's comments.]] I thank Senator Santini for teaching me this word, whose refinement deserves the intellectual depth of those who conduct those programs. I would therefore like to point out to these in-depth law-lovers this rule, which states exactly as follows: The management staff referred to in paragraph 3 shall be recognised as being in a position equivalent to the maximum economic values attributed to the executives of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers... But you can't! For these reasons alone, this law cannot be passed. Now I do not know what it says, but because what matters is who has to do certain things, we cannot approve the installation of something that produces rules after two months from the entry into force of the previous ones, most of which by way of derogation, with the establishment of new offices, to which new managers are appointed, to which we must be careful to give the maximum position (because if it was 10% less it would be a hard blow to their professionalism!). And how should the concrete intervention go forward instead? That is why, Madam President, it is difficult to continue to endure such rules. Do not tell me that then maybe there is an intervention that you have to do: of course, we would miss something else. The point, beyond the norm, is that the procedure and structure put in place for the concrete implementation of that standard are disastrous. Not to mention that fantastic acronym - I think that's what you say, Senator Santini, correct me if I'm wrong - that's the DAC: I don't know what it is exactly, but I know it's an element that gets called back from time to time and shows first how the contracts have to be made. The words legality and transparency are of course there, in a dedicated paragraph, and will be guaranteed by all of them: well, you authorize yourself to do everything by way of derogation from the procurement code, as the previous senator said. That's great, Madam President. So you can't go on. I am sure that Parliament no longer has to stand up to this, because it is quite clear that these rules are new - even in this case, I think it is said - introduced on the parliamentary path: they come and suddenly bring these rules to Parliament, so that it becomes the famous subject of that colossal stupidity that has ruined for a long time our action and it is said that it allows the assault on diligence. On the other hand, we can see who is attacking the diligence, with those amendments introduced as sneaks, at the last moment, and that we would do well to reject immediately to the sender. There is no doubt, in fact, that to simplify a necessary procedure it takes fewer people, fewer permissions, fewer obstacles to its path: so the verification of the execution of that measure is easier and compliance with the law is monitored. This way, instead, we do a bad job. That is why, Madam President, my opinion is of course absolutely negative and I would ask the representative of the Government...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u29	You must conclude, Senator Azzollini, you are about to finish the further time I have already given you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u30	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). I am sorry, but I am merely a reminder to the Government and possibly also to the rapporteur that they want to accept one or more agendas which provide for the possibility of adopting a framework law for seismic interventions, so that we do not do all this anymore and that we have a law which contains only economic measures or some essential rule relating to some specific aspect. I therefore ask the Government and the rapporteur to accept an agenda that goes in this direction. Madam President, thank you for the extra time you have given me. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u31	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u32	Madam President, this evening at 10.30 p.m. in my city a long march of remembrance will begin for the 309 victims of the earthquake of 6 April, which will end at 3.32, when in the big square of my city the bell of the Duomo will ring 309 times, remembering the victims. I want to say this not to sadden the members of the Senate, but to remind a tragedy that eight years ago concerned my city and my region and that we are going back to take care of again in this decree, as a testimony - I tell several colleagues who have spoken - of the fact that when we are faced with situations so large and important, that produce so much damage to people and things, there is, unfortunately, a magic formula that can be brought into the institutional fora, approve and with that then manage a daily life that - I assure you - is very difficult. Still, eight years later, there are a lot of problems, so let alone there are no more recent earthquakes. The way to measure our degree of ability and intelligence must be precisely to find solutions, which sometimes change over time. That is why, although it may not be pleasant, we must know that we will continue to deal with this and other earthquakes, because the solutions must be fixed, adjusted, remodulated and improved. This decree - and I thank the undersecretary Paola De Micheli who has worked so hard to bring it to a conclusion, obviously together with the President of the Commission, the rapporteurs and those who have put us in our minds and hearts - solves a number of problems and also produces legislative innovations of which I would say that if we had them in the aftermath of the earthquake in 2009, perhaps today we would have far less distress, much less delay, much less punishment to face every day. Everything must be included in its history. This earthquake is different from that of 2009, but it has an enormous scope from the point of view of the number of municipalities involved, with four regions involved, so it is obvious that there are more difficulties from a certain point of view. There has been talk of some critical aspects of this decree, but I would like to stress, together with the things we will have to return to, the positive aspects, which are many. In this measure, in fact, there are a number of measures in various areas, aimed at speeding up the ongoing procedures, the implementation of emergency structures and school buildings. We support the weak sections of the population - it will seem absurd, but in 2009 we did not think of the poor, who have now increased enormously in that territory - and the tax deadlines are extended. Businesses, the self-employed and farmers are given the opportunity to borrow soft loans. In essence, an important work has been done, because the decree-law under consideration, which amends the previous one, contains some guidelines of intervention that go precisely to simplify the procedures, to support the operation of the delegated structures and to give attention to the weak groups, but also to introduce innovations or to propose in new form existing institutions. The decree-law in question introduces - for example - the so-called indirect damage, an instrument used during the Umbria earthquake, but not repeated for the earthquake in Abruzzo in 2009. The case of indirect damage now returns to a more organized legislative framework. This is an important measure, because in economic and productive activities - we think of tourism and agritourism, i.e. the driving production chains of the Apennines - sometimes there is non-material damage (the building is not damaged), but because - for example - all bookings are cancelled for months. This is an innovation. Is there little money, about 25 million euros? Yes, but in the meantime we leave and the legal concept exists. There is the new theme that had been debated so much. Another important novelty concerns the destination of the 8 per 1000 state competence fee of the IRPEF for the years 2017 to 2025 for reconstruction and restoration of cultural heritage. There is a measure that we had already adopted in the previous measure on cultural activities, with a special appropriation in the Single Fund for Performing Arts (FUS). There are also important measures for Abruzzo. The right to be part of the seismic crater is recognized - for example - to further municipalities. After the events of 24 August and 30 October, the events of 18 January marked a further watershed in the story of Central Italy and, in particular, Abruzzo. During that day the most immeasurable tragedies were concentrated, including the landslide of Rigopiano, which will be remembered in the history of Italy as the greatest tragedy on the Gran Sasso and among the largest in our mountains. The measure also responds, in terms of refreshment, to the damage caused to individuals and companies by bad weather. It is established that the subsidised funding for reconstruction applies both to the first and second homes and not, as in 2009, only to the first houses. This gives us a wealth of resources that will allow us to reconstruct everything over time. Moreover - this is an important measure - it allows the Regions to acquire to the assets of the residential public housing units for residential use to be used for those who have lost the house. Amendments submitted by the Government are intended to specify the relevant procedures. The Decree-Law therefore contains many innovations, including the procedure for the realization of the new permanent schools, in order to ensure the resumption of school activities, with an innovation compared to the Code of Procurement. I share the measure, because I have lived and still live in my Abruzzo the impossibility for the mayors and presidents of the Provinces to call tenders under current legislation (there are currently no contracts for schools). My request is, in a forthcoming regulatory instrument, to translate the measure of the integrated contract also to the crater 2009, in order to make the rules homogeneous and to promote the reconstruction of schools. Then there are measures - that of indirect damage is an important signal, as I have already said - which are added to other measures for economic development. I am referring, for example, to the so-called South bonus, which is extended to investments by companies in capital goods, with differentiated measures and with a priority for the Regions of Central Italy identified as areas of the earthquake. There are also procedural facilities for access to contracts for the development of business development projects in the territories of the Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria regions. Then there is another aspect to highlight, for which I thank in particular the undersecretary Paola De Micheli, who follows specifically, as well as many other tragedies - unfortunately for her - the story of the earthquake of 2009. The decree-law establishes a postponement of another two years, to 13 September... PRESIDENT. Senator Pezzopane, I've already given you more time than you've been told. Mr Pezzopane (PD). I would like to highlight the extension of the term of the judicial districts of L'Aquila and Chieti and the number of municipalities inserted. And I limit myself to two points: we need the urban free zone and the ZES, that is, the establishment of a special area. I am convinced that on these and other things, on which we will have to work in Parliament with the Government, we will be able to overcome the gaps with the interventions in the next decrees and with future instruments. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u33	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the post-earthquake reconstruction of Central Italy has begun badly and is continuing worse. Also this third decree-law does not remedy, if not partially, the gaps left by the two previous measures and the consequent decisions of the Government. It was a mistake Renzi's choice to appoint a commissioner for reconstruction immediately from the early stages of the emergency. The bicephalus command summit has only created confusion and, therefore, serious delays. Every case of the first emergency has been mishandled. The stables for animals, promised by December, to date to a large extent have not been realized and many of those installed are without light and water. Due to the inefficiency of the Regions, the animals have been in the cold all winter and many are dead or dying. Farmers are desperate, but nobody gives them answers here either. It was also a bad choice to exonerate the municipalities, focusing on skills. The rubble is still on site; the municipalities of Accumoli and Arquata - for example - have not seen a stone removed. There are great delays for the restoration of the road - see Castelluccio's problems for the sowing of lentils - that cannot be erased from a parade of tractors created by art. There are also delays in providing emergency housing to displaced persons. As for the houses, although we are already beyond the seventh month from the first earthquake, compared to the 2,000 requests are only few tens those delivered to Amatrice and Norcia, moreover through a draw in the presence of the notary, that more than the regularity of the extraction has certified the failure of the Government. The two measures to support production activities are also unsatisfactory. With the first one it is expected to allocate the activities in modules that could work well for a limited time, for a few months, but that poorly fit for those who should stay for six, seven, eight or even ten years. The second solution instead provides a contribution for the relocation of activities of 280 euros per square meter (perhaps the figure will be increased). But I ask: in what part of Italy is it possible to build something with this ridiculous figure? For the accommodation of displaced persons at the hotels on the coast, the Regions have found themselves unprepared near the expiration of contracts, inevitably not renewable in view of the upcoming tourist season. Unfortunately, many people have already been forced to leave the facilities to go further, without the municipalities being able to reorganize the services (school bus, shuttle to go to work). Other communities will soon have to abandon the hotels. Also on the side of volunteer civil protection technicians, it is embarrassing not to reimburse the expenses incurred by them, as was provided for by Order No 392 last year. Dozens of boys, in these seven months, have alternated with the Dicomac of Rieti (even with prolonged stays of five or six months), with the promise to have the reimbursement of expenses incurred. Well, they haven't seen anything yet. The reimbursements are also stopped for the volunteer verifiers, who during ten-day shifts - but many of them have done two and even three - have carried out checks on the reliability of the buildings with the use of the famous Aedes and Fast cards. We are talking about hundreds and hundreds of technicians, including engineers, architects and geometries, coming from all over Italy (many from the North), who have assumed and are taking huge responsibilities, as they respond on the civil and criminal level of the cards they sign. Do not take advantage of their availability. Otherwise, you will get the result - as is unfortunately already being verified - that you will no longer have volunteers for a fundamental activity to speed up the reconstruction. Let's turn to the analysis of the decree, which at its emanation was very poor. During the amendment phase in the Chamber, it has been integrated and improved, even with proposals from the League, which have remedied a series of problems already widely raised, but unfortunately neglected by the Government and the majority, during the conversion of the first two decree-laws. We are talking about the improvements introduced, which we of the League had raised on the first decree, which concern the competences on the rubble; the modulation of the professional tariff for the technical services, according to the amount of the works; the return of the plants in the contributions to be recognized; the recognition of indirect damages; the payment of the compensation directly to the subcontractors in case of the works entrusted to companies that have asked the admission to the agreement. In this regard, we regret to stress the rejection of a similar measure, which we had asked for, for the reconstruction of the earthquake in L'Aquila, despite the fact that eight years have passed, this reconstruction is still to be completed. The provision, which here in the Senate has come 'blindato' - probably on it will be placed of trust - has many shadows. It is true that the seismic crater has been expanded by nine municipalities, but only following amendments tabled by parliamentarians and partially transposed by the Government. Very serious was the exclusion of the Municipalities of Basciano and Penna Sant'Andrea in the Province of Teramo; of Catignano, Civitella Casanova and Penne in the Province of Pescara; of the hamlet of Arischia dell'Aquila and of the Municipality of Spinetoli in the Marches: all Municipalities martyred by the earthquakes of August and October, and finally by the snowfall and earthquake of 18 January last. These municipalities have been discriminated against. I quote - for example - Basciano, which has little more than 2,000 inhabitants, and which, at checks not yet completed, already records more than 180 orders of inadmissibility, with more than 120 displaced. The red zone in the historic center has numerous shores; they have been carried out demolitions for danger of public safety; there are damaged public buildings and places of worship completely inaccessible. Yet, Basciano, like Penna Sant'Andrea, through a first resolution of the Regional Council of Abruzzo last December, followed by a resolution of the Regional Council of Abruzzo, had been inserted in a homogeneous area called Valle Siciliana, recognized as an area affected by damages. Despite this, they were excluded from the crater, unlike the municipalities of Isola del Gran Sasso, Colledara, Castel Castagna, Fano Adriano and Pietracamela, which instead were made - and rightly - re-enter the crater. We wonder why D'Alfonso, the Abruzzo governor of the Democratic Party, who is also deputy commissioner for reconstruction, did not fight for this inclusion. The North-We League movement with Salvini, first in the Chamber of Deputies and now here in the Senate, has tabled, like other political forces, amendments for their inclusion, but Government and majority have turned out to be deaf. Now the citizens and businesses of those excluded municipalities will have to demonstrate with an expert knowledge the link of cause and effect, if they have suffered damage to their home or to their own shed or shop, but above all they will not be able to enjoy the tax benefits: we are talking about the suspension of the payment of taxes, mortgages, social security contributions, insurance premiums and bills. In fact you are stifling the hope of recovery of these communities and, therefore, you are condemning to irreversible depopulation their hilly territory, rich in culture and traditions. Speaking of other shortcomings - for example - for the municipalities affected by the snow emergency of the second decade of January, despite the declaration of the state of emergency of a national character, no specific provisions have been foreseen. Furthermore, the funds for livestock farmers are clearly insufficient: we are talking about a figure of only EUR 23 million for the lack of income for livestock farms. There is also no exemption from the IRPEF and other taxes on earthquake-stricken residents, but only a suspension, with the possibility of borrowing for the payment of suspended taxes. And I would stress that in this case the same mistake made in Emilia-Romagna is repeated, with the use of bank loans assisted by State guarantees for the payment of taxes suspended on undertakings, including agricultural ones. The result is that, only through the payment of interest, for Emilia-Romagna the State has already paid the capital share of the suspended taxes, to the great joy of the banks. This is crazy. On the establishment of the free zone, then, there is nothing yet. Despite pressure from the North League and other political forces since the first decree-law, the Commission has still taken time to check with the European Union. A further postponement after seven months is unacceptable. To deny the free zone, aimed at fiscally facilitating the micro enterprises present in the municipalities of the crater, is a serious mistake, which offers not perspectives, but only a future full of uncertainties. The commercial and craft activities and small industrial activities that cannot and do not want to relocate elsewhere, how do they plan to stay on the spot and, therefore, continue to be "blood and oxygen" for the local communities, allowing them to survive, resist and resurrect? At this point we suspect that the Commission has not been able to represent in Europe the dramatic situation of Central Italy, which is at serious risk of desertification. We are not talking about the first urban free zone in Italy: dozens have been established since 2007, up to the last ones, related to the territories of Emilia and Lombardy, hit by the 2012 earthquake. Therefore, the decree-law to our examination disappoints many mayors and local administrators, of Municipalities both inside and outside the crater, who were waiting for concrete answers to their requests, but who were actually left alone to face problems greater than their abilities and forces. I want to emphasize that it is a mockery and it is ridiculous the norm that allows the first citizens of the Crater Municipalities under the 5,000 inhabitants - that is mayors who, since August, are running for twenty-four hours a day, with their own car, supporting enormous expenses - to award an allowance equal to that of Municipal Municipalities of size between the 10,000 and the 30,000 inhabitants, but with burden to the same Municipality. Despite Renzi's phrase "We will not abandon you," the Government in fact abandoned the citizens and businesses of Amatrice, Accumoli, Arquata, Norcia, Cascia, Visso and many other municipalities. [[Call the president back.]] Madam President, I have fifteen minutes for my speech, not thirteen minutes, and I intend to use them all, having asked for them. Residents in those municipalities, on Saturday, as a sign of recovery, once again, have manifested and protested in the centers of the seismic crater, but above all in Rome, in front of Montecitorio, against the institutions: many of them have lost everything! The decree-law under consideration does not satisfy us, but above all (even for the scarce resources allocated) it does not satisfy and does not give guarantees to the affected populations of Lazio, Umbria, Marche and Abruzzo: it highlights the obvious anxiety of the Government, which is far behind with the chronoprogram of the interventions. The emergency phase must be completed quickly in order to be able to think of the future of the earthquake areas which are at great risk of desertification. Once and for all, the highways and parks (the A24 and the A25) must be secured, many of which are damaged. I remember that, after the earthquake of the Eagle of 2009, with the Stability Act of 2013, work had been authorized, but nothing has been done. This is serious, despite the seismic emergency in Central Italy is constant and there is a risk that damaged viaducts may collapse at the next strong shock. Certainly, for the future, we need to rethink a framework law to deal with earthquakes. We must rethink the organization of the civil protection machine that has limits, but not as thought in the recently approved delegation law. We cannot continue to survive thanks to the competence and will of those who have operated, and are operating, in the emergency and post-emergency like Fire Departments, Civil Protection, Forces of Order and the various voluntary associations, which, like the North League, we will never end to thank. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u35	Senator Arrigoni, I apologize, but the Presidency was another time and no communication of a change had arrived. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Undersecretary De Micheli, I believe that every time in this House we come back to talk about earthquake one of our first thoughts must always go first to the victims and the affected populations, and then to all the organizations that have intervened and that, even today, continue to bring their support to Amatrice and to all the other affected municipalities. I'm thinking civil protection, the volunteer network, the fire department, the alpine, the alpine rescue workers. As you know, the Civil Protection of Trentino has the coordination of all the regional civil protections and, still today, there are many volunteers belonging to this one or to the organizations that I have previously listed that continue to leave for Central Italy. Unfortunately, however, in recent days, an event has happened that has been a source of displeasure for our communities. I read the words of the mayor of Amatrice, Pirozzi, in the 30s press and there really is nothing to add, but send him a big hug for everything he's doing for his people. It must simply be said that, if on the one hand we are called to take care of those who have lost everything, however, we cannot neglect the feelings of those who, generously, have rolled up their sleeves, to try, in their own little, to soothe it. The Municipality of Amatrice has decided to dismantle the prefabricated school that our Province has built in record time to allow the regular beginning of the school year and that, last September, it became a symbol of reconstruction and hope, to leave room for a school structure financed by Ferrari. All of Italy was then surprised by the speed at which the school took place, allowing about 160 students to start the school year on time. Only six days after the earthquake the first containers had already left Trento, and in only seventeen days more than 150 volunteers have assembled a brand new school, composed of 24 modules, giving 16,900 hours of work. And I remember that the expenditure was financed not only by the institutions, but also by the free offers of so many Trentinos, who wanted to show their solidarity It's very nice that Ferrari intervened. It is important for everyone to play their part and it is important that Amatrice finally has a stable and complete structure, as we have repeatedly said in this House. But that school is a symbol, and symbols also matter. Mayor Pirozzi said that that facility will be disassembled and returned to Civil Protection, but it won't be easy to do that. It is not a container and we find that it is the only structure so far built in Amatrice. So I want to make him a proposal publicly and ask the Undersecretary, to make him spokesperson: why not study a way in which the structure can be maintained and destined for other purposes? It is now a piece of the history of Amatrice, of the strong bond with Trentino and of the solidarity of the whole Italy for the areas devastated by the earthquake. I think Amatrice needs it. What they are examining today is the third decree-law in favour of the areas affected by the earthquake which - in our opinion - introduces important elements that allow the simplification of emergency procedures, but also greater agility to the municipalities that are working to gradually bring the situation back to normal. In the Committee on Agriculture, we have listened to the dramatic situation in which farmers - who have received the solidarity and the contribution of the Trentino farmers to feed - are faced because one of the key issues to be addressed is the recovery of the economic fabric. For this reason, all the rules of the decree that go in the direction of bureaucratic simplification, tax relief and economic incentives for the purchase of machinery are good. In the background - as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out - there are two nodes in our regulatory system that need to be dissolved. The first concerns a fair balance between rules to ensure the transparency of processes and the need to address the emergency, to give immediate responses to citizenship. The second concerns the need to combine reconstruction with a vision of development, with the way a territory imagines its future. That is why I too share the need for a framework law on reconstruction forms and policies following natural disasters. Finally, I also believe that the demands made in recent days for the establishment of a no-tax area for the production activities and residents of the seismic crater should nevertheless be the subject of some reflection. Of course, these are measures that must be included in a mechanism that allows economic recovery, reconstruction and protection from risks of speculation or tax avoidance by persons who do not belong to the territory. In conclusion, this decree-law does not solve all the problems, but it is nevertheless an important and significant step forward, a concrete response to the shortcomings and dysfunctions denounced in recent months also by the directors, to whom the Government and this Parliament also had to give a response. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u37	Madam President, my speech will not be different from what was said when the first and second decree-laws were converted, but I will change the tone. And I will do so because the things that were to be done were not done and the unanimous protest by the citizens of the 140 municipalities of the crater is summed up in a sentence - ambassador doesn't hurt - which I quote as spokesperson for the citizens: Seven months of nothing. You're killing them! The phrase is a slogan, a manifesto expressing exasperation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If we don't repeat it, it's even better. FUCKSIA (Mixed). It is clear, but, as President Errani also said that the earthquake victims are always right, we note that there is a foundation of reason. And the foundation of reason is because the delay, which has been accumulated, is not acceptable and for a simple fact: on the occasion of previous earthquakes - I refer to that of 1997 in the Marches and Umbria, which was much more contained, without many repeated shocks or with nine shocks over the fifth degree - after three months reconstruction began. The dramatic thing is that in this earthquake there has been no appreciation of the experience, of the advice of the technicians and of the needs of the citizens: there has been a stubbornness about an absurd centralization. I am referring to the 100 people employed in mobility by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, or rather not employed but transferred to mobility, who receive about 30% more. I make it a matter not of cost, but of common sense. It happens that these people, who have never made invitations to tender and do not know who and how to appoint director of the works or responsible for the procedure, consult the territorial technical offices: it is as if I paid someone to make me tell them what I have already told them before. Common sense wants that in such a difficult situation, where it is so important to know the territory, the strengthening must be done at the level of the territorial authorities, where the competences are present and are also higher than those of those who - if you will allow me - also make gross errors. For example, in the table of structural deficiencies there is a gross error that could be detected not by a superfine engineer or a surveyor, but also by a bricklayer with professional experience. It is also true that we no longer have masons, because in this country we have created the work of nothingness, of the useless, and the real jobs, the know-how we have lost them on the street. And, therefore, the houses do not work because, even in the presence of a project, there are not those who realize it and lack coordination. And the trivial error is that, in the presence of external head walls, it has not been calculated whether or not internal walls are present in the building: according to the table this makes no difference, while the difference is enormous, being one of the cornerstones of the anti-seismic reconstruction, in the sense that there must be broken sections to the long bearing walls. Then there are other trivial errors, identifiable by uncompetent people who simply use common sense. I take the example of the damage calculated differently in the various regions: a square metre to be rebuilt in Emilia-Romagna had an evaluation greater than a square meter to be rebuilt in the Marches. However, there is another mistake: above 120 square meters, if there is only one owner, the recognition of the damage is 70 percent; if, however, in a building of more than 120 square meters there are two owners, then the recognition is 100 percent. Tell me what the logic is, if we are all equal and if this is respected. Even today the technical offices of the territory that should deal with the issue (for example in the Marche are those of Macerata and Ascoli Piceno) are ghost: I have reconstruction offices where the technicians are missing, where the procedures are not known and are unclear and, therefore, the free professionals cannot work. You can also apply for reconstruction, but you don't know whether or not it will be financed. Which one of you would venture to do a project without knowing if he was then recognized that share? Therefore, it is certainly important to proceed to the valorization of the territory and the main competences. Another problem rightly now very much felt concerns schools. Safe school committees have been set up and, therefore, the vulnerability of strategic buildings, including schools, is very important. This is fine, but we must proceed in a certain hurry because, in order to allocate the resources, it is necessary to establish first the degree of seismic vulnerability, and therefore of safety, of schools. We must, therefore, know what to do from an operational point of view. Of course, appointments must be decentralised, because in the Marches I do not know what to do with a director of works from Milan. Another problem concerns the aggregates in which both the public and private sectors are present. For example, if I don't establish in an aggregate (the famous consortia that are created, as has been done before) where the public sector is present for 50% what it has to do, you go and chain yourself into something that you don't get out of. Another problem is the tendering procedure, where we have been delayed. Now, with good weather, the animals can also stay outdoors and, in the meantime, those who were to die are dead, and with them the farms. We have had delays in the construction of small houses and in many works which, unfortunately, have been forced to follow the Council procedure. And I'm not opening this conversation. I'm just saying that Consip gave his best in all the sauces. In fact, if I have to contract a work, I define the characteristics, the essential requirements, to limit even the maximum figures, but then I give anyone the chance to realize it; who first does it, the better. Why do I have to wait for the sub-contracting of the mega-contracting? Maybe the small contract can affect the small territorial firm, decentralizing contracts in this way? But, if they are small, I make them less attractive to the big shark, to the big companies that often hide the biggest interests and behind the big interests there are the mafia, the bribe and everything else. For a small figure it is not uncomfortable, while a large figure sets virtuous and not virtuous circuits into motion. In some cases, too, demolitions must be encouraged. The therapeutic fervour, if lately it does not apply to people - and we also review the speech on the biological will - does not even apply to a building that does not have the basis to stand. It is useless to spend so much if the next little shock collapses everything; at that point, I will have spent twice, wasted time and taken away at other times. Similarly, in reconstructions I often see contracts for safety. To secure a small bell tower they cost more the scaffolding and the crane than a complete job, which perhaps involved only a few more hours. This shows that will is not enough: competence and experience are needed. The Invalsi trials - passing from pole to pole - have been eliminated in the territorial areas for high schools and not for the lower ones. Why? If a principle is valid, let's apply it to everyone; I wouldn't have done it for anyone but, if we do it for someone, let's do it for everyone. [[Recalls of the President]] Finally, I would like to address the issue of the urgency of the free zone. Bills of law have been made in all sauces and it has been said that it is fundamental to institute it in order not to depopulate the territory. You must use built and unsold houses that are free. Since the good season has now arrived, the hoteliers, who have been cashing out all winter as never before in the last ten years, now they shake the earthquakes because it is more profitable to host tourists. I'm fine with financing indirect damage, but after that: first we rebuild houses and hospitals, first we give facilities, first we build infrastructure, first we do what everyone needs. Let's start the territory again, let's not let him die like this. If the citizens change, they will have every reason to do so. There are many things I would like to discuss, and I regret not being able to do so now, but I am willing to deal with them later.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u38	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u39	I remind you, Senator, that you only have six minutes, because you gave part of your time to Senator Di Biagio.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u40	Madam President, I shall try to save time. There is no earthquake, but there are earthquakes. Every earthquake has its own history and the earthquake we are dealing with is known to all. It is a huge territory: 140 municipalities involved, 59,000 tremors, of which nine are superior to the fifth grade, 142,000 inspections carried out so far and 200,000 requests. It is clear that the sums allocated so far, amounting to more than EUR 8 billion in the various interventions, are not at all sufficient. I am not surprised by this decree-law; it is not the first decree, it is the third and certainly there will be others, we will continue to talk about the earthquake in this short term of the legislature and also in the next. I am not surprised because the damage has been enormous, the problems are many and obviously the necessary resources cannot all be available from today to tomorrow. That which we are examining is a good decree-law, which from the point of view of its construction has been particularly implemented and improved during the work carried out in the Chamber of Deputies, as colleagues from the opposition, in particular Senator Arrigoni, have acknowledged. It is a measure that has the merit of talking about seismic microzoning. In this regard, I would like to recall, taking advantage of the presence of the Minister for relations with Parliament, that on this very issue, this very House, on 7 March last, adopted an important motion which had on the subject the completion of the modern geological map. This motion dealt with issues relating to the policies of prevention and mitigation of hydrogeological risks and, in particular, the seismic microzoning of the national territory. Well, I think it's time to deal with these issues seriously and I think that the next important appointment, the examination of the Document of Economics and Finance (DEF), can be the ground in which these issues can find allocation. Coming to the measure at our examination, there are so many positive ideas that can be remembered. In particular, I believe that it is good and fair to have identified 8 per thousand with regard to cultural and architectural assets from 2017 to 2025, to have made available resources for the weakest and most needy, to have inserted additional new Municipalities of Abruzzo that had remained outside and, above all, to have inserted a series of rules that allow small Municipalities, that do not have an adequate bureaucratic structure, to be able to interact with the offices of the Commissioner and with the rest of the public structures made available to them in a easier way. Then, you can criticize everything. The idea is well founded that we must go along with a framework law that deals with the issue of major disasters and, in particular, the issue of the earthquake, in an overall way. We must go back in time and go to see what has been done since the great calamities, from the 1968 calamities in Sicily, in the Belice Valley, to the present day. Compared to all these great issues, in my opinion, we must have greater versatility and once again take advantage of the presence of the Government to make an appeal, through the Minister, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, to be absolutely more forward-looking and versatile in the idea of infrastructure the country, especially in the earthquake areas. (at 11.30 a.m.) (Follows MARINELLO). You have to go look for the money where they are and they are not always in the public budget. We must go and interact with international investment funds and - why not - enter into a negotiation with the large concession companies, I am referring to motorway concessions, going to check whether interacting on that land or extending also the deadlines of some concessions it is possible to find those economic resources that can put at the expense of private individuals the modernization and the safety of absolutely fundamental road links (I refer, in particular, to the highways and viaducts that today arouse so much concern). These are things that can be done and that I believe must be done by a serious and responsible policy capable of taking responsibility. Beyond all this, as I said in the preamble, this decree-law must be approved without delay. That is why the vote of the Group I represent will be in favour of its approval. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u41	We welcome a delegation of business network entrepreneurs Progestia di Verona, who is following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u42	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the day of the commemoration of the seismic event that struck L'Aquila eight years ago with 309 victims, we discuss a measure that should give hope to the populations and families affected by the earthquake of 2016 and subsequent events of the beginning of the year. This House has decided with considerable delay on the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry concerning the reconstruction of the Eagle which could have avoided all the errors that continue to be made in these decree-laws and which have been illustrated in the previous speeches. In view of the failure to launch the same and since the sessions of the Assembly on Tuesday morning are not held on time due to the lack of the quorum on the part of this majority, which insists on remaining in the saddle despite the referendum vote, we could say that this branch of Parliament is finally dealing today with the serious problems that a part of the country is experiencing (in this case, the Regions of Central Italy). In fact, we are faced with yet another bluff: on television and in the newspapers resources are announced, making people believe with a certain superficiality and - allow me - a good dose of cynicism that will be immediately employed, while in fact you can not use them, because they are tightened between the shirts of the bureaucracy, unlike the speed with which other funds are unlocked in favor of the banks. With the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement of the House, in the previous passage, we tried to improve the decree-law, proposing to include in the seismic crater some municipalities whose administrations are not of the PD, which had inexplicably been excluded from the previous measures, although they had already been hit by strong shocks months before. I refer to Barete, Cagnano Amiterno and Pizzoli, in the province of L'Aquila; Farindola, in the province of Pescara; Castel Castagna, Colledara, Isola del Gran Sasso, Pietracamela and Fano Adriano, in the province of Teramo, inserted thanks to our amendment. They have still been outside municipalities such as Penne, Penna Sant'Andrea and Barisciano, for which we have also tabled amendments and the reason for this exclusion is not given. It is a decree-law, this, that does not even consider the priorities of the very serious criticalities currently found in the internal roadway, that still today make it difficult to deliver aid and the activities of support to the populations in the earthquake zones or even the simple movements for the reconstruction, presenting conditions of journey in the really difficult mountain areas, to the limit of the absurd. Last week I walked stretches of road from Colledara to Penne and it was really crazy and Senator Chiavaroli said the same thing after walking the road from the coastal area towards Penne: if we continue to keep the roads in these conditions and we are not interested, seismic events can be increasingly catastrophic, as well as those resulting from the hydrogeological risk. This decree-law does not even consider the fact that our areas are mountainous, which makes them really difficult and all this is added to a disadvantageous orography. The Commission rejected the agenda that I had presented in the field of health to commit the Government to suspend throughout the Abruzzo Region, not only in the municipalities affected by seismic events, the application of Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015, which continues to reduce the levels of hospital assistance within the regional territory, although in our Region important objectives of containment of expenditure in the field of health have already been achieved. And I was even asked to lighten the commitment for the agenda regarding the equivalent purchase, to which the decree-law dedicates a specific paragraph of Article 3. It is, colleagues, a practice introduced by Decree-Law No. 39, issued immediately after the earthquake: this provision provided for the possibility of requesting, as an alternative to the reconstruction of the main houses, the purchase of equivalent and replacement buildings of the destroyed house. A measure completely absent for the other earthquakes and that the decree-law under consideration continues to foresee, bringing only such purchase within the same Municipality, thus excluding its applicability throughout the national territory and this despite it is a double compensation, one because it inserts the house in the reconstruction plan financed with public funds, becoming heritage of the Municipality, the other when the owner is paid the value of the property, always with state funds destined for reconstruction, for the purchase of a house of equivalent value. The Municipality, like that of L'Aquila, is in charge of a large real estate assets following the sale of the house and also to choose the representatives of the condominium who choose engineers, geometries, architects and firms for the reconstruction. This has nothing to do with the needs of citizens and the careful use of public funds. My agenda undertook the Government to provide for measures to progressively reduce the possibility of using this option and a text 2 was requested to contain the diction to consider whether it would be possible to do so! I hope that these two agendas will be examined by this House, but I fear that once again, unfortunately, the question of trust will be raised. The only hope that remains therefore for all citizens, affected and not by natural tragedies, is to have a pentastellated government, because party politics does more damage than any earthquake. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u44	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u45	Well, let's be useful again. [[Comments from Senators Blondo and Mandelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u46	Speak without further comment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u47	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE). I thank the Presidency for allowing me to speak despite my late request and thank Senator Marinello for giving me part of his time. I wanted to point out that the measure is a necessary act, even if it would have been appropriate to deal with it with greater amending capacity here in the Senate. While understanding the reasons for urgency, there have certainly been many improvements, which have made the measure more responsive to the legitimate demands of a territory exhausted by particularly serious calamitous events, I believe that some points remain to be addressed and need to intervene. I refer, for example, to the provisions of Article 18-c on tax credit for the territories of central Italy affected by the earthquake. This forecast is likely to remain unimplemented as the rules applicable to the tax credit for investments in the Mezzogiorno are extended indistinctly to the areas affected by the earthquake. The legal basis of reference, i.e. State aid for regional purposes, provides, as regards the territories of the Centre-North, only for some municipalities and a lower aid intensity than that of the southern regions. The provisions of Article 18-c, on the other hand, extend the scope of the facilitation to all the municipalities of the crater and raise the levels of aid beyond the limits allowed and up to the ceilings granted only to regions whose development is lagging behind. The fact that a reference to the rules applicable in the Mezzogiorno is therefore likely to prevent the European Commission from adopting the measure itself. Since the proposed rule runs counter to the existing rules and provides for notification to the Commission, the Community authority could only refuse authorisation. For these reasons, it would therefore be desirable to rectify this aspect in order to make a meaningful measure for the companies operating in the affected territories practical and give a real signal. A further point which deserves attention and which has been widely addressed by the Industry Commission and which is reflected in its opinion on this measure concerns the real support for the agricultural and livestock production sector, which, as many know, is one of the economic and productive pillars of the area. In fact, the failure to implement or slow down the implementation of certain provisions provided for in the orders of the commissioner of the Government for the reconstruction in the territories concerned by the earthquake make it more complex to implement the plan of support to the sector. There are too many bureaucratic requirements related to the completion of the procedures provided for in the ordinances, which paradoxically affect its effects. For example, it is difficult to access the temporary relocation modules of the structures within which to carry out the activities due to the damage and the inagibility of those belonging to the companies and to the individual operators, as well as some bureaucratic and administrative constraints could be overcome, with a view to real and profitable support to the sector, through the multi-annual and temporary granting of state property areas for the purpose of the continuation of the business activities compromised. With this in mind, it would also be appropriate to consider establishing a special economic zone in the territories affected by seismic events, providing for specific tax and tax benefits for operating companies in those territories in order to allow the economic recovery of the area. Moreover, it would be important to allow the participation and involvement of associationism and the realities of the third sector in the choices and initiatives of planning and territorial development regarding not only the urbanist instruments, but also the operations of desired revival of social infrastructures in the affected areas. There is a good basis for giving real support to these affected areas currently compromised and we hope that we will follow up and pay attention to the remarks that have been made and that it would be appropriate to accept. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u48	Mr President, I think that this country should begin to reduce the scope of contradictory assessments and behavior. We always forget what we did the day before when we are dealing with a problem that calls us to respect the organizational, especially institutional, intervention of the public. I say this because a great debate has developed in recent years. We have lost a lot of time and resources in discussing the usefulness or not of the Provinces; we have demolished them enough and we have also approved a constitutional reform that abolished them, after which we realized, for example in the management of the emergency, that those territorial institutional levels make sense. Thus, when the roads are not in place, it is not because destiny is cynical and cheating, but because we have eliminated the subject that had to put them in place and also removed the necessary financial resources. I say this because we must never be superficial and think or assume that, if we are there, we do better than others and that we are also free from vices: some vice they all have and the presumption is a serious vice. We have worked on this decree-law and I thank the rapporteur, Mr Senator Lai, for the willingness he has always had during the debate. We have worked to try to improve it and to find, to some extent, the roads that must be travelled not in order not to find ourselves no longer faced with the problem of making subsequent and always improving interventions of the State's capacity for presence in areas affected by natural disasters, but also for this ability to intervene to be realized as slim as possible. Why then do we propose, as the rapporteur said, the definition of framework legislation and ask the Government to take this matter seriously? Because some general criteria must be established, for example in the definition, in case of seismic events, of the craters on which a certain type of intervention must be concentrated. They must be defined, also in order to try to achieve uniformity and uniformity in the capacity of the State to intervene, of the general criteria, on which then measures are introduced that do not necessarily have to be legislative, without prejudice to the need to give financial coverage to those interventions, but can often be delegated to administrative entities able to operate with a speed that is not possible in Parliament. Another issue that I think is absolutely necessary to address is the procedure. There's a contradiction there too. In this world that we have defined as "thieves," we have filled the procedures of paths of control and verification, with the call to responsibility of several subjects and with attention to the monitoring of interventions that often contradict the need to proceed quickly and to arrive at very accelerated forms of attribution of tasks and acquisition of supplies and services. Or, then, we take away from this country this now unbearable condition of suspicion and we make a selection of our public executives in such a way that there is no longer a spread of corruption or irregular, illegitimate and often illegal behaviour or we will never be in a position to operate quickly, as happens in many other countries of Europe, where the culture of public affairs and the quality of intervention towards those suffering is a solid culture, which is based on honest, correct and absolutely intransigent behaviors. I would like to close, Mr President, by telling a piece of truth that we live and need in this country. There is an old institute of Sardinian culture, sa paradura, that is, reparation: it was a way through which the shepherds who lost the flock, for a thousand reasons, were compensated by the shepherds of their territory, that is, by those who worked like them in the country in the breeding of livestock. The flock was therefore re-established through a donation from each of the other shepherds. Sa paradura has been proposed in Cascia, thanks to the initiative of Istentales, a cultural association promoted by a person deserving from the human point of view, a shepherd who sings Sardinian music, Gigi Sanna, who, together with Coldiretti and other associations, collected 1,000 sheep that were brought to the shepherds of Cascia. This is an example, but many others have been brought by colleagues, for example by Senator Panizza, for their regions and for their communities, who have worked hard towards those who have been the victim of a repeated, systematic, very dangerous event. And I say this for our civil protection system: I want to thank Dr Curcio, because in those months, when the emergency was real and put at risk the lives of people, the response that there was from the officials of the state, the fire department, the forces of order, the army and all those who voluntarily gave themselves, was an extraordinary response, exceptional, of a civil country. And I can't understand why every time we have to scourge ourselves and we have to look worse than we are, even when we are better and we give the best of ourselves. For this reason I quote sa paradura, Gigi Sanna and Coldiretti of Sardinia: I quote an example of generosity, of attention that must not be lacking, that must be strengthened by the State and that the Government must guarantee. The Government makes a framework law: treat everyone in a uniform manner; establish general criteria; strengthen administrative action and when it puts someone at the head of our offices choose honest, capable, punctual people, because of this Italy needs, which is a great country and deserves to be saved even by ourselves when we judge it in the worst way and in the way it does not deserve. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u49	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u50	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues, the decree-law under discussion is the admission that little or nothing has been done so far compared to the earthquake that hit Central Italy on 24 August (with the replies of 30 October and 17 January). This text actually confesses a situation of immobility: for example, I recall that it contains provisions for the removal of rubble and debris still on the road today and I wonder how it is possible that, after more than seven months, construction sites for the removal of rubble have not been started. And how can we fail to see how much the decree under consideration is nothing but the triumph of the bureaucrat? Just think of the changes made to Decree-Law No 189 of October, that is, the first in this matter, which remained largely useless, although it was issued as urgent and necessary. But then we come to the paradox of correcting, through a primary legislative act, the provisions issued by the Commissioner for Reconstruction, provisions which could be amended by an act of the Commissioner himself. It should also be remembered, moreover, that Decree-Law No 205 of November 2016 should have regulated the allocation of temporary housing structures and modules (the so-called houses), which instead are still at the first assignments, managed almost as if it were a lottery. Basically, there is a bureaucratic and crippling regulatory construction, together with the fear of issuing permits that may be in breach of environmental standards. In order not to consider the fear that one can stumble into the appetites of organized crime, which hovers over every hypothesis of trust of the reconstruction work. So - let me tell you - you don't go anywhere at all. The form and substance of this decree-law are the proven proof of a bureaucracy that feeds itself, with continuous rules and always new prohibitions. The Regional Environment Agencies have so far blocked every initiative, which must start from the removal of debris, which must be placed in places where they will then be separated and, if possible, valued. But it is certain that without the removal of the debris you cannot start again with the rebuilding. Now, in the text under consideration, the producer of the resulting materials is identified in the figure of the municipality and is indicated, moreover, a subject provisionally holder of the same. Attention however: despite the presence of a decree-law, the plan for the management of the rubble and waste must be approved within sixty days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree. As if to say that the sixty days necessary for the conversion of the decree - it itself arrived late to correct the stalemate produced by the previous ones - are not sufficient and need another sixty. They are, therefore, allocated 23 million euros to compensate the companies that have seen a reduction of their own billed as a result of the earthquake. It is a rather small sum, made available to compensate for the decline in business of the companies of the four Crater Regions. This decrease has actually been much greater if the direct and indirect effects on the economy of those areas are counted. In addition, support measures are provided for households considered to be less well-off according to the parameters of the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE). The short bureaucratic circuit is, however, such that paragraph 3 of Article 10 of the legislative provision considers the houses destroyed or damaged by the earthquake not covered by the ISEE calculation. I wonder: if a house is no longer habitable, how can it be calculated for the purposes of the ISEE? I would also point out that the EUR 41 million put in place for this measure is drawn from the Fund for the fight against poverty. So these are resources destined for those who have become poorer, as a result of the earthquake, but who are still being taken away from other poor people, who in the rest of Italy have equally important problems. So there is also the paradox of the wrong financial coverage. In addition, it is natural to think that these people, affected by the tragedy of having lost their homes and possessions, have not only few economic resources, but also scarce physical, psychological and time energy, which should all be channelled into the difficult activity of reconstruction. Instead, these people have to deal with tax deadlines. This is the paradox of bureaucracy, which does not distinguish the citizen in daily living conditions from the one who lost his home for an earthquake and is forced to live in a tent. It is useless and - let us add - cruel to ask the latter, for example, the payment of the RAI fee. In addition, the decree-law extends the terms of the provisions on tax and environmental compliance and payments. Here is another absurdity: for residents of the earthquake zones there is a temporary suspension from the payment of taxes. Yet, as of 1 January 2018, they will be forced to borrow from banks, assisted in this case by the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP), in order to meet the taxes demanded by the State. More than a suspension of deadlines and tributes, a blockade had to be planned, waiting for those territories, torn apart by natural events and then climatic, to return to a condition of full normality. It would be very appropriate for any resource resulting from the payment of taxes or leaps of the people affected by the earthquake to remain on the territory. In this way, those regions could certainly start again, with the sacrifices of their own citizens. Instead it appears almost a concession article 11-a, which provides that the landfilling of waste by residents in the Crater Municipalities does not apply - thank God! - the addition of 20 percent to the bestowal tribute. Only the application of this supplement would have been missed! In addition, Article 11-b, introduced by the House of Deputies, provides for a twelve-month suspension of the capital part of loans and loans for households and businesses. Having said that, it must certainly be acknowledged that the Parliament has slightly improved the text in question by introducing the tax credits for investments in the regions affected by the earthquake, by extending the number of municipalities that benefit from the rules of the decrees in this area and by introducing the seismic vulnerability checks of school buildings, an important fact in my view. But what is still missing is a complete mapping of the affected territories and, above all, a financial envelope such as to mark a reversal of course compared to the little put on the plate so far. Suffice it to say that the EUR 300 million available from the Rotation Fund is nothing more than a cash advance on the European Union Solidarity Fund. Without demagogy (which has never been the theme of Forza Italia), but by performing a trivial summing up of numbers, we must note that for migrants there is money (4 billion real euros), for reconstruction no, there are less. In a nutshell, therefore, we could say: little money, so many rules and so many exceptions. There is also an organizational machine which, as I have said so far, is not perfectly in place and which often clashes with each other. Well, analyzing this combination of rules - continuously integrated and modified - we are convinced, as we have already strongly pointed out in the Commission, that a unique and organic discipline is absolutely necessary, in order to face the situations of natural disasters, which unfortunately follow in our country, that allows to simplify the fulfillments in the territories affected by any kind of disaster, be it a earthquake or a flood. To this end, we have tabled the agenda G/2756/56/5, which was approved in the Budget Committee. With this agenda, we hope that a text will be adopted as soon as possible to collect, rationalise and replace the copious body of legislation on natural disasters, in order to allow more rational and appropriate interventions by the State, the Regions, the Municipalities and all those involved in the emergency and reconstruction. This is what the citizens are asking for, even in these days, with their protests. Our real fear is that, if we continue to follow the path outlined by this provision, by the previous decree-laws and by the continuous interventions that follow without solving the problems of the people (interventions - let me say, therefore - extemporanei), in ten years we will still be asking ourselves: but when will the reconstruction in Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria begin? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u51	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u52	Mr President, we must undoubtedly reaffirm our commitment to this country, which has been driven by so many frailties, and assume a predefined system, with framework law, as many call for, of powers and governance for the management of emergencies that is slim and transparent, also on the basis of the experiences already experienced in some regions, of good practices (such as that of Umbria in 1997) and to complement the system created by the law of 1992. Waiting for the special offices established to work at full capacity, certainly the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 8 of 2017 will allow to adopt new and useful provisions for urgent interventions in favor of the populations affected by the seismic events of 2016, aimed to streamline and accelerate, as already said, the procedures of management not only of the emergency, but also of the phase of reconstruction. This, for example, with the use of negotiated procedures for the assignment of design assignments or for the assignment of urbanization works related to the construction of temporary structures by the Regions as contracting stations, starting from the lists of companies held by the prefectures, or with the rules on the granting of concessional financing for private reconstruction extended also to the destroyed or damaged buildings located outside the crater of the four Regions, that can demonstrate the direct causality between the damage suffered and the seismic events demonstrated by the claimed expertise. Further provisions are introduced for the adaptation and acceleration of the time required for requests and contributions for businesses and private individuals, while ensuring legality and transparency in a context of exceptionality and emergency. Of particular importance are the provisions that, in amending the previous Decree-Law No 189 of 2016, provide for the promotion, by the extraordinary commissioner, of a plan to equip the municipalities concerned by seismic events of studies of seismic microzonization, as well as the norm that the interventions for the temporary relocation of economic and productive activities must be carried out primarily within the same Municipality, in order to avoid the depopulation, also economic, of the earthquake areas and to return to normality, as soon as possible, the social and economic life of the populations affected by seismic events. This is in addition to support for the weak sections of the population and income support measures for workers who have had to suspend their activities, and measures for the support and development of agricultural, agri-food and zootechnical holdings. 12.05 a.m. (Follow GINETTI). To restart economic, social and family life in areas that are at risk of depopulation and abandonment, to restore to normality a wounded and torn reality (financing reconstruction not only of the first, but also of the second houses), to return to normality starting from the guarantee of the resumption of the regular educational and educational activities, which from the beginning have been the priority. In the same direction go the forecast regarding urgent interventions to protect and to recover cultural heritage, of which little we have said, also in order to reopen to the public of the ecclesiastical structures, as well as the norm that introduces in the Program of environmental infrastructures also the path and the recovery of the itineraries of slow tourism in the areas. Measures aimed at economic recovery with the recognition of indirect damage to businesses in the tourism and related services sector, public services, trade and crafts, accommodation and agritourism activities that have suffered from these tragic events reduced revenue, even by 70%. I thank the Commission and the Government that, in adopting our specific agenda, they have wanted to recognize the role that tourist guides, ambassadors of our precious and immense artistic, historical and architectural heritage, also in this minor Italy, have in this tourist-cultural sector. I define it this way because it is located in internal areas, often mountainous, where we find medieval villages that in history have preserved walls and bell towers, basilicas and churches, which have also yielded to the devastating force of the earthquake, which has redesigned the profile of our Apennines, modified the watercourses, caused landslides and rendered unworkable roads prohibiting access to these characteristic places. They are places of unique beauty, like the flowering of the plain of Castelluccio. It was a mirage of colors that each year attracted more than 250,000 tourists and pride of this strip of land and farmers, which we saw loudly protesting with their tractors against delays in setting up access roads that could allow the sowing of lentils and its flowering. The agreement between the Region, Anas, Coldiretti and workers' cooperatives has allowed to reopen the tunnel San Benedetto di Forche Canapine and the passage of a convoy, escorted by the Army for the transport of seeds and means, for a daily transit also for those who cannot stay in Castelluccio, waiting for the restoration of the provincial road 477, which will also allow tourists in the coming months to reach the plateau and from there to admire that heritage also immaterial colors, perfumes and authentic flavors of traditions that we cannot disperse, that we must defend and enhance, bringing back in these wounded territories tourists and inhabitants, young and old, give hope to the green heart of Italy. This is our commitment to return as soon as possible to full activity, to the restart of authentic areas of unique and irreproducible beauty. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u53	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2756, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 8 of 9 February 2017, into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u55	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 8, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u58	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I apologise if I have interrupted it, but it has already happened twice that, when we meet in the 5th Commission to examine the maxi amendment, the House resumes its work without waiting for us to finish ours. I would ask you to wait, before we begin again with the work of this House, for us too to end up in the Commission; otherwise we will suspend work in the Commission and come to this House. We do not understand this practice which has been established during the last two issues of trust, for which, while we are in the Commission, you start again in this House without waiting for us. We can suspend the Commission and come to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u59	As you have heard, the text of the maxi amendment is identical to the text of the House. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Even the other times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is identical and the Commission has already delivered an opinion on the House text. BULGARRELLI (M5S). I remember. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] We will take this into account for the next time, but in this case the opinion is basically already there, unless the Commission reconsiders it. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.11 p.m. and resumed at 12.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u60	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law introducing new urgent interventions in favour of the populations affected by the seismic events of 2016 and 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on confidence, which will be concluded this morning, an hour and fifteen minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. To this end, the sitting may continue beyond the scheduled time. The final explanations of vote will take place at the opening of today's afternoon sitting, starting at 4.30 p.m. He will then call her, orientally at 18.10. I therefore briefly suspend the sitting, waiting for the Groups to send the members of the Group in real time to the Presidency to speak for what has just been requested at the Conference of Leaders which has just ended. We shall then resume the discussion which will take about an hour and fifteen minutes, presumably until 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.34 p.m. and resumed at 12.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u61	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u62	Mr President, this is how we approach a new confidence, which was in the air because, unfortunately, we have now resigned to the idea that the government is not going to discuss the measures on the subject, mostly by sending reassuring messages to the public. The goal is always the same, that is to say in the newspapers that it has been done quickly, it has ended what had to be done and everything is resolved. As an old proverb would say: "Everything goes well, Madame the Marquise." But nothing's okay here. Again, nothing's okay. You see, I have taken a small part of the documents accumulated over the last few months on the issue of the earthquake, to which have also been added the unfortunate weather conditions that have affected the territory of Abruzzo. But, even more than this faldon, I carry behind me the memories and constant daily solicitations that come from the terrified territories by the people who do not go on television, of the enterprises that do not go on television, of the citizens who do not go on television, because they would not go appropriately in the direction desired by the Government, but that continue to live that dramatic situation of uncomfortable without answers: I think of the disabled people of Cascia, who still lack the structures; I think of the farmers, who still have solutions that come only from voluntary activities or autovoluntato between farmers. And the disconcerting thing is that everything that happened, in the inability on the part of the Government to resolve and to give a response, had been promptly frightened by us in the days immediately after the first earthquake of Amatrice, when in the Commission in the Chamber, with Senator Arrigoni, we confronted the other parliamentarians, proposing solutions that we asked then were included in the law. The same thing we did in the Budget Committee, always hearing us say - there was the Undersecretary De Micheli - not to worry, because everything had been resolved and because all the best experiences and all the best skills had been included in the law. We were also told that the new Commissioner Errani had arrived, who had so much experience in Emilia; therefore, to our every observation, the answer has always been that the things we asked for were already included in the measure and that we had already resolved the comments we made. The problem, Mr President, is that then these statements made by the Government did not correspond to the truth. We have then had dramatic confirmation over the last few months, because since the earthquake in August it has not been two months, it has not been three months, it has not been six months, but it has been eight months. We are talking about situations that are now approaching the year, with the earthquakes that are hosted on the Adriatic Riviera and that now also receive the notice of eviction from the hoteliers, who had been given assurances that it would be a stay of only a few months. This gives the idea of the dramatic approximation with which the Government has dealt with the situation. And we will never stop reproaching the previous Government, the one led by Matteo Renzi (who still has in the key men who manage the earthquake his reference figure), the use for instrumental purposes - because there was the constitutional referendum - of the solutions put in place to solve the problem of earthquake victims. The government's objective was not to solve the problem, but to say that they would deal with the situation, that the boxes would arrive and that farmers would have temporary stables in no time. It wasn't like that. And the really disconcerting thing is that you took advantage of it and took advantage of people's hope then. In recent days I have passed in those earthquake zones, I have been to Amatrice, Norcia, Accumoli and I have found conditions of total abandonment, without people anymore. That is what was not to happen and that we said it would happen, using criteria of bureaucracy alone, because you have broken the bureaucracy measures. Mr. Undersecretary, you filled them with bureaucracy. What needs to be said and what has already been mentioned several times this morning is that it is more important for the people you have put there to build a structure that gives them a salary rather than solving citizens' problems. For them today it is more necessary to have the pieces in order to be able to deal with the investigations of the judiciary than to solve the problems of the citizens, with total paradoxes. Each line is cited as the DAC, for guarantees compared to the infiltrations malavitose and the miscostume that has already occurred in the past when there was money to spend for the earthquake. And every ten lines inserted that everything is by way of derogation from the legislation. We had said from the outset that, as they were prepared, the measures would be paradoxical. The only certainty, which unfortunately we still have today, is the people who do not have the house, who do not have the housing solution. There are countries that are still crumbling. Mr. Undersecretary, go for a tour of the earthquake-stricken countries: go to Accumoli, Visso, Campi di Norcia: there are still crumbled houses. There are no solutions in the field and there are no solutions that should be normal, such as road. After nine months, it cannot be said that we are still waiting to find a solution on the road and that we now have the appropriate measure. In a serious country, the first thing to restore is the means of communication between people. Undersecretary Pizzetti, are you listening to me? Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I can hear you, Senator. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). The farmers who in recent days have gone to prepare the sowing for lentils above Norcia, in Castelluccio, do you know which way they have passed and which roads have been forced to do? Eight months later, there is not yet a direct road connecting Norcia to Castelluccio. Take the Army and entrust them with the necessary operations to manage the road alternatives. But the incompetence demonstrated so far by Errani and his executives, to whom you add more, do not deserve further resources. These people will produce further slowness, because the only thing they are interested in is covering their asses with bureaucratic measures. This is what is written in this provision: procedures for bureaucracy, and not for solving people's problems; better earning and snatching a further salary which should instead be intended to support those citizens. We are not at all satisfied with the management of the government and this measure, and even worse than the imposition of confidence, which prevents the debate and approval in this House of amendments which, once again, we have put on the table, gathering the demands of citizens, farmers and traders, that is, of people who, with dignity, only ask to be able to work and not to have bureaucracy in the middle. Yet, today, you will prevent all of this. You have placed trust and you will produce yet another bureaucratic elephant. Unfortunately, our earthquake-stricken fellow citizens will once again be mocked. The solutions are there; it is simply a matter of using good will and listening to oppositions, and not simply of following your presumption. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u63	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u64	Mr President, the truth is that I am sorry that such an important measure touches the lives of a large piece of our Italy, which has been devastated by the earthquake, will be reduced to yet another apposite of trust. In the Commission we have tried to do our duty and to give voice to the territories, businesses and citizens in order to try to give relief to a de facto state, to a wound that we have not yet managed to cure. This is what people say that every day he goes down to the square and that even last week he was out here making his dignified protests heard; the facts and images that we see on television say so. We were ready to do our duty and we did so - I repeat - starting from the requests of those who need help, trying to condense it into a parliamentary work that had a meaning and a response. But we can only be unhappy that some provisional forms are drawn to be made available to the people affected by such a dramatic event. I can't help but think of the extraordinary work that the Berlusconi Government did, so much criticized but that it managed in a few months to give real houses, even with the refrigerator full of supplies, to those who needed help. Such houses still exist and give a real chance to resume a normal life. As I said before in my speech in general debate, there is little money and so many rules: this is the summary of this decree-law. Few money, because there are more for other chapters than to help our fellow citizens who, on the other hand, deserve our attention. I would also like to add that I am deeply dissatisfied, because companies are not in a position to resume their business and therefore will not be able to restart the virtuous circle that is essential for the return to normality. This is, in my opinion, the distinguishing figure of how we do not want to consider the willingness to solve the problems of our fellow citizens. Another important issue on which we cannot agree is the rubble. As I said earlier, we have seen from the television images that everything has remained still and, perhaps, some clock, dramatically marked by the earthquake, which fixes the time of the seismic event, is the witness and the most real symbol of how everything is still at that damn moment. Despite our willingness to make a serious contribution to the people, the only thing we have been given is the adoption of some agenda and, in this regard, I thank Senator Lai who wanted it. With regard to the agendas that we have presented and which have been accepted by the Government, I would like to stress an important fact. Faced with the certainty that our country is the object of a telluric movement, which unfortunately repeats itself as a constant, in order to avoid the continuous pursuit of decrees that try to put one piece on the other, we must have the courage to put ourselves all together to try to do something organic, to face the emergency in an orderly way, equal for all citizens, without the chases of Parliament and the theater of politics and without the issues of trust that mortify those who, like us at this moment, would like to make their contribution to restart the country. This is the sense of an agenda that we have tabled and which I would like to draw attention to here, in order to arrive at a text - Forza Italia is available in this sense - which allows us to address all the important issues right away, so that everyone knows what to do, if a natural disaster, an earthquake or such a thing were to happen unfortunately. If we did not learn the lesson, according to which we must be more ready to deal with emergencies of this type, we would have made two mistakes: the first is that we did not give today a concrete response to the citizens, while extending "the stock" with another decree-law; the second is that we will not have the memory necessary to solve problems that, unfortunately, in the country have become recurrent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u65	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Mazzini Capograssi" of Sulmona, in the province of L'Aquila, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u66	I am sorry that Senator Candiani is not here, but I must point out that some expressions are frankly to be avoided. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u67	Mr President, given the issue of trust, I shall be expressing here what I would have said during the debate on the amendments. It is important for clarification to be made on certain points, particularly those relating to the areas covered by the Commission's responsibility for health and hygiene to which I belong, and for them to be recorded in the minutes. In particular, I would like to highlight Rule 10-a, which was inserted during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies. It provides that, in the face of a need of the citizen, in a territory without roads and with considerable difficulties, some drugs that are today dispensed from health facilities (so these are especially expensive drugs and in particular anticancers) can be distributed by pharmacies. This rule is very peculiar and, given this, might seem useful. However, as a doctor even before a politician, about a month ago I attended a conference organized by the pharmaceutical companies, who complained about the decrease in their turnover and asked that many of these hospital drugs, which are very expensive, also because they come at a cost of 50,000 or 70,000 euros for a cure, could be distributed by pharmacies, so as to increase their turnover. As you want to show, starting from an extremely limited need, referring to very few people, you try to carry out a speech that could be extended to all the regions of Italy. This is going to disrupt a system, which not only means great savings because hospital pharmacies distribute drugs at a lower price, but it has a health value, because we know that these medicines are impacting health, with sometimes important side effects, so they need to be followed. 12:57 p.m. (Following GAETTI). This is a first step that I wanted to testify to, because it could be a Trojan horse that one day could represent a cost to health care. Since hospital pharmacies today distribute drugs for 5 billion euros, if we make a surcharge of 20%, this amendment, applied then throughout the Italian territory could cost us a billion more. May I also point out that many articles of this provision go to correct the decree-law of 30 December 2016, as amended by the law of 27 February 2017. How is it possible to approve a measure three months ago and now begin to assess the criticalities and to make corrections? This, perhaps, is to show that legislative activity is not at its best and that we should build a system that is good for all emergency situations and not intervene every time on a single characteristic and territorial peculiarity. In fact, as has been shown, there are elements of discussion in which we can then be included. Another element that I find interesting, and in my opinion contradictory, is precisely Article 17-a, which, in practice, leads to a suspension of health terms by which one goes to say that the reorganization of the hospital network, as many regions are doing, in these territories, must be frozen. This, from a technical point of view, is important because we know that there is a reduction in the hospital network in many territories that need great help at the moment and therefore must be preserved. At the same time, however, in Article 18-e, which also corrects Decree-Law No 189 of 2016, it is said that static assessments will have to be made by Civil Protection, therefore using the funds of Civil Protection. In my opinion, these two elements are contradictory, because it is useless to maintain a hospital network in a transitional way, on which we could and should certainly do structural improvements, and then in three years' time, when this element expires, we will have structurally valid and functioning hospital networks but which will have to be reorganised because they fall within a more complex and general framework. This is yet another demonstration of how money is spent on a facility that will probably be closed down. Therefore, it would be appropriate to have a long-term vision so as not to waste public money. I conclude by saying that these measures, in a very abstract logic, seem to meet the needs of people who are experiencing a time of great difficulty, but in reality they are not used to meet their needs, but those of the large pharmaceutical lobby who are trying to increase the turnover of pharmacies. Many agendas have been tabled and amendments have been tabled in this direction. This is a demonstration of how lobbying exploits times of need to meet their interests and not those of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u68	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u69	Mr President, in this debate on confidence in this third decree on areas affected by the earthquake, I wanted to highlight three issues. The first concerns reconstruction. This is the third decree-law dealing with the areas affected by the earthquake and we still do not see any appropriations for reconstruction. It hits the fact that the President of the Council Gentiloni still declares that the money will be allocated in the next decree-law, that is, in mid-April. They will make a fourth earthquake decree to allocate funds for reconstruction because they are not yet visible. If you go to visit the areas affected by the earthquake, you understand perfectly why they are still so reduced: the money has not yet been allocated, we will think about it in mid-April. The other question, which has already been raised this morning in general debate, concerns Casa Italia. In these three decrees no money has been allocated for reconstruction, but we have found money for the managers of Casa Italia. First of all, I would like to remind you that Casa Italia is not involved in reconstruction. Therefore, the House should have declared the amendment inadmissible because of the extraneous nature of the matter. However, a sentence has been inserted that says: "even as a result of seismic events that affected the areas of Central Italy in 2016 and 2017". This is the only thing inherent in the decree: the rest of the amendment does not concern either emergency or reconstruction. It had to be excluded and, if one really worked with a system of perfect bicameralism and not as if there were only one Chamber, the Senate would have to expunge this amendment out of extraneousness of matter, as happened with the amendment of the Red Cross in the decree emigration. I would like to remind you that for the first phase of Casa Italia have been called to work a series of super technicians who for the most part, except four, have lent their work in total free of charge to have a slim and low cost unit. Now, instead, we are creating a unit no longer technical, but bureaucratic and administrative and will be given compensation at the highest possible level by law. I find it inconsistent. Because if it is true that in order to be an executive you have to have qualities, to work super technical at zero cost and then to create an administrative-burocratic unit, whose members will have a salary as much as possible by law, it constitutes an inconsistency that is commented on by itself. The third point I wish to highlight concerns the emergency of the areas affected by the earthquake, but in general all of Italy, and concerns local authorities. These, which are the administrative backbone that holds the country, have been destroyed and devastated both by the Delrio bill and by the numerous cuts of the various financials of recent years. This is seen both in the ordinary management but, above all, in the emergency. In fact, it is a success that local authorities - not because of them, but because of those who have cut the funds and those who have left them skills without providing the necessary funds - have failed to cope with the emergencies of these months both for seismic and atmospheric events. I am talking specifically about the roads because, as a colleague said before, there was no road for the sowing of lentils and they had to go and do it with the Army. So you want to tell me that when the tourists go to see the bloom they'll be taken by the Army? The roads, in fact, are still not in order because the skills had been left to the Provinces, but they no longer had the money for maintenance. Therefore, perhaps it is necessary to review in full, not only during the emergency but also in the ordinary, the administrative structure of the local authorities that have been devastated by both this Government and the previous one (which are the same thing). Now, with the decree-law under consideration, let us try to give some content, but let us never solve the problems of great importance; in fact, the resources, which will amount to a billion per year, will be allocated in April. These three decrees-laws have therefore simply served to make bureaucracy, but it has not solved anything and we are always from scratch. Moreover, the government is forced to put its trust in this branch of Parliament because, despite the measure concerning the earthquake, many oppositions would have abstained and, since in the Senate abstention is valid as a vote against, there was a risk that the decree-law would not be approved; the excuse for the excessive number of amendments was therefore used to place trust in this House too. Instead, the time would have come for the government to work to resolve the issues and have Parliament work, instead of using it to put in the measures it wants like the Casa Italia plan, the Red Cross measure and many other issues. It would be time for us to start working again in Parliament, with two Chambers and not with one, because one House is now working on the decree-laws at a time, while the other is no longer able to do so. It would be time to start thinking about Italy again as a country where perfect bicameralism reigns, because it worked and Parliament did good things when you let it work. Now that it is always the government that legislates instead of letting Parliament do so, it must happen that it has to issue three decree-laws on the earthquake, it has not yet found the solution and it will have to launch a quarter of them. I feel like we're insane. Perhaps it would have been better to issue a few less, to work better all, even in the parliamentary classrooms, and perhaps we would have already solved the issue and we would not yet have people away from home, without a home and who do not know how the reconstruction will end. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been discussing certain specific aspects of the Decree-Law under discussion in the general debate this morning, so it is pointless for me to repeat myself on the issues I have already dealt with. I would like to express some political views on the government's confidence and therefore to justify why the Group to which I belong cannot vote. The political point is as follows: in recent months the demand by the affected populations for rapid, effective action has been widespread, capable of beginning to give them relief. The state of affairs has been clearly X-rayed: so far little has been done, indeed very little has been done. The overlapping of competences, the lack of coordination of priorities, the cumbersome nature of procedures have not even made it possible to do the minimum required in the time that has elapsed. The government, instead of meeting this request, issued a decree-law which, as I said this morning and as other colleagues have done, goes in exactly the opposite direction. It radically changes the existing law and will therefore necessarily lead to a new verification of the state of things, of procedures, of relations between institutions and between bodies concerned; it inflates the structures of intervention with new departments, executives, vice-directors, sub-directors, who must, by necessity, at least review the issues, analyze them and then intervene; again, it does not solve the problems of the specific areas of intervention between the different institutions concerned; it creates new institutions, new departments, new competences. All this, of course, will continue to lengthen the time and not give satisfaction. It should be noted that the gravity of the matter not only induces Forza Italia to express these criticisms, which we consider to be of particular gravity given the matter we are dealing with, but has also led Forza Italia for a long time to speak on this subject, presenting an agenda on this subject, being unable to express itself with amendments. In fact, as my colleague Mr Bulgarelli pointed out earlier, I am now in a position to have only one House work on such complex measures, and it is taking more and more action, with negative results for parliamentary work. Forza Italia has presented, therefore, an agenda with which it asks the Government to put hand, on the basis of the many experiences that unfortunately Italy has had, to a framework bill, simple, with very clear rules, that offers the whole of the indications where ever - we hope not - other events of this kind should occur and that therefore gives clarity to the intervention bodies and to those who coordinate these interventions, indicating precise meeting places to determine the actions to be undertaken in the ordinary way. Only in this way can we have effective action, with a bill that is ordinary in nature. We do not hide that each of these events can have peculiar aspects; but only those must be dealt with with with a few supplementary norms. On the other hand, Mr President, as I said earlier, the whole of the law under consideration is to amend a previous law of last December: a very offensive thing for the people affected. Without remaining our deep distrust in this provision and in the Government that issued it, we also place ourselves as a proactive force and we ask that, in the face of seismic events, alluvial or however emerging, we give a predetermined rule, to regime, certain, clear, simple. That is what the citizens are asking for so that when those serious events occur, we can have as soon as possible the refreshment that the State needs to give them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would have liked to confine my speech to the illustration of one amendment and one agenda, which propose a concrete measure, which is easily applicable, with immediate effectiveness, which could solve one of the many problems that arose in Central Italy in the post-an earthquake phase. In fact, I thought (and I still believe, Lords of the Government) that this should not be the moment of controversy, but of action and possibly of action in harmony. Once again, however, the comparison on concrete proposals has not been possible because of the perseverance of a modus operandi that I believe to be deeply wrong in method and in merit and that it is still more hateful and unacceptable before a subject of dramatic importance, such as that of support to areas hit by repeated earthquakes from last August. Colleagues, we're at the third earthquake decree-law. Indiscretions speak of a fourth intervention also in the context of the "corrective maneuver" that the government is forced to launch in the next few days because of the unholy - and in this House denounced - management of the extraordinary resources and the margins of additional flexibility that Europe had granted to our country just after the shock of Amatrice, but that they are "accidentally" ended up in a sort of "Save-Referendum Fund," which has not even managed to save the government then on that choice. Already the fact that each of us must make an effort of memory in order to put in chronological order all the fragmentary interventions that have followed with schizophrenic course shows clearly the figure of the failure of the Government regarding the ability to face the seismic event of 24 August, then that of October, finally that of January. Timeliness, clarity, order, incisiveness: these are the characteristics that should qualify the reaction of an executive in facing an emergency of the scope of the one that hit Central Italy. Uncertainty, approximation, fragmentation, poor lucidity, lateness, deafness towards the cries of help of the Mayors, citizens, hoteliers, breeders and traders: these, instead, the qualifications that can be attributed to the executive's ability to react and support the administrators and citizens of the crater. To aggravate the situation, colleagues, the confirmation that - at least at this juncture - the current Government has not lost the bad habits to which the previous executive had accustomed us. That, for example, of reducing the role of Parliament to merely pass-cards of government decisions through the first presentation to the Commission and then to this House of texts which the other branch of Parliament had exclusive power of intervention without, however, putting it to good use because of the closure of the majority in relation to proposals from the opposition. Colleagues, in the affected areas of the Marche, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo are asked first of all the possibility to restart the economy, to reopen the shops, to support - not only through the distribution of funds, which often remain blocked for bureaucratic lengths - the enterprises that have had damage to the structures, not irreparable, but strongly compromising compared to their previous productive capacity. These activities still seem to be forgotten; or, even worse, they have been given some secondary and marginal measures, such as a tax credit of dubious utility. Senator colleagues, members of the Government, the possibility of keeping economic activities alive is not a secondary issue. To prevent people being forced to leave the cities and countries affected by the earthquake must be one of the primary objectives of state intervention in the crater areas. There has been an inability on the part of the Government since September to understand the strategic measures to be implemented immediately to avoid desertification in central Italy. The impression is that you are still reasoning - and taking decisions as a result - as if the earthquake had occurred yesterday morning. We are acting in a confused - and in any case ineffective - way on the emergency, without understanding that paradoxically the risk of desertification, both housing and economic, is stimulated precisely by the measures that have been put in place so far. Colleagues, one thing is to encourage people to move to the accommodation facilities on the Adriatic coast for a given time (two or three months), but it is not really the case that people are basically prevented from returning to the land of origin, especially when it comes to large urban centres, or to prevent commercial, productive, tourist and entrepreneurial activities from resuming. In this regard, I would like to point out the cry for help from the administrators of the earthquake zones, in particular from Abruzzo, where an emergency is taking place in the emergency. Many premises used for commercial, receptive and entrepreneurial activities have been severely damaged by seismic shocks and are therefore inaccessible. The owners of the same activities are forced - at their own expense - to search alternative places in which to transfer their activity and to revive in this way the economic fabric of the crater municipalities. At the same time, however, the scarcity of anti-seismic premises has caused a surge in rental prices, which forces entrepreneurs who want to stay there, do not want to go away and believe in the possible economic recovery of those territories, but also traders and hoteliers, to transfer them despite their own activity outside the perimeter of the crater, thus causing the abandonment of entire villages and urban centers and above all causing a strong economic damage to those territories. The experience of the old town of L'Aquila should have taught something about it. For these reasons, my fellow Senators, I have received the request from the Regional Council of Abruzzo, which, with a resolution adopted, calls on the Government at first instance, and on the occasion of the conversion of this decree, Parliament, to extend the system of advantage of the dry coupon - today reserved for housing - also to buildings located in the seismic crater intended for productive, commercial and tourist activities. Thanks to this simple measure it would be possible to guarantee - in the face of the tax savings from the landlord - a control of the rental prices to the advantage of the tenants and therefore indirectly to the benefit of the economic recovery of these grieved lands. At the same time, these contracts should be lifted from the payment of registration and stamp taxes. Colleagues, let us not waste now in this House the opportunity to give certainties and answers to our fellow citizens of Amatrice, Accumoli, Pescara del Tronto, Arquata, Norcia, Tolentino, and I could continue, to make them stay in the places where they were born, to give continuity to their work and to prevent these villages becoming spectral and deserted places. I hope that this opportunity will not be wasted today and that it will therefore come in some way, even in the form of an agenda, accepted the proposal for an initiative which was contained in an amendment which unfortunately, for the sake of the Government's confidence, cannot be discussed here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u74	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-801.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.26 a.m.
