ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 2 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u4	LANGELLA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u8	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 2 p.m. on Thursday 11 May for the vote on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The honourable senators will vote first. Therefore, the scheduled afternoon session of the inspection union will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Senators Manconi and others, Casson and others, Barani, De Petris and De Cristofaro, Buccarella and others, Torrisi, and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 14 July the amendments tabled to Article 1 continued to be examined. I note that the rapporteurs have tabled two amendments to Article 1 of the measure, which will be forwarded to the parliamentary groups. The deadline for submission of sub-amendments shall be 7 p.m. on Thursday 11 May. Consequently, the continuation of the examination of the measure is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u12	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, you have given us the deadline for submitting sub-amendments, but we do not have the amendment, so what are we referring to?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u13	As I said, it is distributed to the Groups, and the deadline for submitting sub-amendments expires next Thursday at 7 p.m. I'm not providing materially, but the matter concerns all of us, so I guess it's in distribution. And I repeat that the deadline for sub-amendments is Thursday at 7 p.m. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, but we would like to have this text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look, I'm here presiding. If I could get up and bring it to him, I would. Someone will bring it to him in real time. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But has the Presidency received the text? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, it has come to the Presidency and is distributed to the Groups. Now we're going to do a proper test. The deadline for submitting the sub-amendments - and I repeat this once again - is Thursday at 7 p.m. and then we will discuss it at another sitting. So, you'll have all the time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2233-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Sacconi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure, which, as you mentioned, is linked to the annual public finance manoeuvre, comes to the attention of this House one month after the completion of the Commission's work on the substance. This work has confirmed the text approved by the House of Deputies, with amendments which I consider to be limited in relation to the more intense work that this House had done, especially in the Committee on Employment. The measure is divided into three Heads, the first of whom is devoted to self-employment relationships and, according to a provision introduced by the Chamber, to the institution of unemployment benefit for workers with a coordinated and continuous collaboration relationship. Chapter II contains rules on so-called agile work, which is also called smart working in literature. In Chapter III there are financial and final provisions, also because some significant delegations to the Government are contained here. I would immediately like to point out that there is a widespread expectation of its definitive approval, which I would like to hope for. In fact, the draft law contains the first significant protections for the liberal professionals, delegations useful to enhance the activity of the social security funds, as well as to enable the professions organized in orders and colleges with reference to functions, today exclusive, of public administrations. Finally, there is a slight adjustment of the so-called agile work according to its development. The same text contains the above provisions because of the great changes that are transforming traditional ways of producing and working. In the new horizontal organizational structures of the production of goods, such as services, subordinate work acquires characteristics that bring it closer to the autonomous one, because the performances are realized for cycles, phases and objectives and are therefore evaluated according to the results. At the same time, self-employment assumes those characteristics of fragility and the needs of protection that were once brought back to employee employment alone. For the first time and in terms common to all employees, as well as independent workers, it is here that the promotional right to learning is explicitly codified as a fundamental protection of the worker for his/her employability. It becomes effective, for self-employed persons, through tax incentives for self-training expenditure and, for employed persons, through the negotiating autonomy which is also entrusted with the means of sanctioning or encouraging behaviour. This right will have to be matched by a labour market as an inclusive system, because in it a plurality of subjects - from educational institutions, businesses, representative associations and bilateral bodies - must offer continuous formal, informal and non-formal opportunities for improving knowledge, skills and skills. Education, training and work are no longer separate phases of life, but are permanently integrated and active policies themselves are no longer inherent in transitions from unemployment to work alone. I would like to point out not only the innovations introduced by the House of Deputies, for which I refer to a written text, which I ask the Presidency to be able to hand over so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Sacconi, rapporteur. Above all, I would like to point out the problems that, in my opinion, remain unresolved and those that can be solved through interpretative acts. In particular, we have had the opportunity to examine the provision in Article 4, which has, moreover, been the subject of the assent of the two branches of Parliament and is therefore unchangeable. At first reading, the provision in question seemed to conflict with the overall legal framework of copyright, which transposes the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works by Law No 399 of 20 June 1978, and Directive 2001/29/EC, which provides for an exclusive right in Articles 2, 3 and 4 to authorise the reproduction of the communication and distribution of the work of ingenuity at a time. Since the ratio of this provision should be to increase the protection of self-employed workers, by expressly providing them with the protection provided by the Copyright Act and the Industrial Property Code, interpretations which prove to be the opposite must be avoided, especially if they lead to the possibility of prior and general transfer of copyright in the contract. An agenda, accepted by the Government, commits the Government to produce interpretative acts aimed at specifying that Article 4 does not regulate the way in which the rights of economic use of works of ingenuity are exercised, but merely recalls the existing legislation on copyright and industrial property, in accordance with the international and Community sources I have previously mentioned. At the conclusion of Chapter I on self-employment, on the basis of an amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the establishment of a permanent table at the Ministry of Labour so that the Ministry itself, the Government through it and the associations representing the liberal professions and independent work can discuss and further deepen the issues that it has not been possible to resolve here, in particular with regard to social security models as well as to the subject, which I did not by chance point out at the beginning, of training. This place of comparison will therefore have to define solutions starting from the node, unsolved as I said, of the separate management at the INPS. Separate management does not seem to have more reason to exist today in the light of the reform of the public pension system. In particular, non-order professions should be able to choose between their own self-management within the institution and the establishment of a multi-sectoral fund. In any case, they should be placed in a position to benefit from benefits proportionate to contributions, which is not the case today. Experience has also shown that the repeal of the tariffs of regulated professions in the ordering system and the absence of parameters for the remuneration of other autonomous activities have led to unfair competition, with harmful consequences for the quality of performance and the recurrent violation of the principle of fair compensation for any work. I have presented an agenda with which I would like to commit the Government to take all necessary measures to ensure fair compensation for any work, whether dependent or independent, and to re-introduce, in particular, on the basis of the necessary consultations, minimum rates in cases of assignment of tasks to professionals enrolled in orders and colleges and, in order to provide the client with guidance and support tools in the negotiation with all professions, to adopt minimum performance standards with the relevant cost parameters, in line with the relevant EU legislation according to the following criteria: identification of the content of the main professional performances in relation to predetermined quality standards; definition of objective criteria and parameters for the calculation of performance costs; acceptance on a voluntary basis of the criteria and parameters for calculating performance costs in relations between professional and client; guaranteeing compliance with the principles of freedom of competition and equal treatment between professionals. I would remind you that the tariff system is still present in many countries of the Union such as Germany and that complex reference tariffs are now present in our own legal system but for the exclusive use of the court asked to resolve a dispute between professional and client. Now it is a question of preventing litigation and ensuring higher quality of services through the obligation of minimum levels and information to the market of the costs inherent in professional services, so as to allow a conscious demand. This requirement applies to all professions and self-employed activities. I would like to make this House aware of the fact that there have even been public invitations to tender on the basis of which qualified professional activities, such as health surveillance and therefore the activities carried out by doctors at work - activities that we would like to include in national preventive policy, which we would like to take place through a holistic approach, relating to the health of the person and not only to the specific risks inherent in that place of work, activities that we would therefore like to enrich with functions in relation to the health of the person - have been remunerated for each performance little above the 3 euros. You imagine what preventive visits can be made with such a remuneration, which certainly cannot correspond to the constitutional criterion of fair compensation. But I also think of other activities, including those connected to digital platforms, which are often objectively autonomous, independent and, above all, determined by the freedom with which the provider corresponds to the call coming from the platform and which, however, must be guaranteed at a minimum level of performance. The excess of tariffs was carried out in Italy on the basis of a wave - let me say - marketer, which we do not find in other European countries: in Germany, for example, professional tariffs are still present and not only in their minimum size. That market emphasis seems to me to be corrected by the principle of observation, the one on which I mentioned the possibility of improper remuneration of the ordering activities that, I would like to remind you, often carry out tasks not only related to the customer, but related to general needs, protected by the function of orders and by principles of a deontological nature. I would like to point out, for example, that the doctors accountant in the trade union colleges: when they lend themselves to carrying out these functions on the basis of low wages, they can legitimately cause doubts about the independence criterion by which such a delicate function is exercised. On the other hand, I come to the next part of the chapter on agile work. Agile work that here finds, as I said, a so-called soft regulation: for the first time we adopt a gentle, subsidiary regulation, which refers to the contractual instrument, which recognizes the usefulness of the individual contract and implicitly admits, however, not denying it (nor could it be otherwise), the capacity of collective bargaining. With regard to agile work, I would like to point out certain requirements which can be resolved by interpretative acts. It will be useful, for example, to expressly indicate, between the technological working tools, in relation to the safety and the good functioning of which the employer is responsible according to article 15, paragraph 2, of this text: the e-mail service made available by the employer and the services of the business network including the Internet, in addition to those aimed at ensuring the physiological and safe functioning of the network (access systems, antivirus, automatic inhibition systems of the contents inconferent with the work). The assumption of any burden or cost in this regard should then be expressly recognised as borne by the employer). It should also be specified that the employer must provide prior information on how to use the working tools and the circumstances in which the checks will be carried out, in compliance with Article 13 of Legislative Decree No 196 of 30 June 2003, and subsequent amendments, providing that the installation of geolocation systems on the technological devices supplied to the worker and software systems allowing in any way to monitor, filter, control and trace access to the Internet or to the e-mail service, is subject to the procedure laid down in Article 4 of the Workers' Statute, and subsequent amendments. With reference to Article 15 (4) of the text under consideration, it should be noted that it is appropriate to clarify whether any incentives and benefits of a fiscal or contributory nature provided for workers who carry out their duties within the company are also recognised for workers who perform the service in agile work arrangements. It is appropriate to specify whether the agreement for the performance of part of the work benefit in agile manner and its amendments are the subject of the communications referred to in Article 12 of the single text of the provisions for compulsory insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases, with consequent adaptation of the related insurance premium for the part of the work benefit rendered outside the premises of the firm in always variable and different places. Health and safety profiles related to agile work are perhaps the most critical aspect and have been the subject of an agenda, accepted by the Government, which is now being re-presented, unusually, for further emphasis. With reference to the rules provided for in Articles 19 and 20, there is first of all a need for clarity regarding the relationship between this provision and Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008 (the so-called single text on security). It is appropriate to specify whether the provisions contained herein are the only ones operating with regard to the worker during the period of performance of his or her benefit or whether they should be coordinated with the application of the single text. A specific clarification would be necessary for the INAIL coverage: in particular, it will have to be specified whether the accident of the agile worker will be insured and to what extent those in itinerant will be considered. It is therefore worth pointing out to the Government the opportunity to interpret the compensation for all accidents which occurred to the worker during working hours outside the company, under the same conditions as the so-called INAIL coverage of workers who are injured in the company, regardless of any investigation of the opportunity to work. Moreover, a specific assessment of risks in the workplace cannot be demanded from the company when the provider decides them in full autonomy. It must be made clear that, in the context of the risk assessment, smart working deserves a specific consideration in itself, regardless of where the activity is carried out and, consequently, the worker must be subject to appropriate health surveillance - as I said - of a holistic type. Accident events linked exclusively to the worker's discretionary choice of place cannot also be charged to the employer as a liability. Finally, it may be appropriate to specify that work involving the use of dangerous means cannot fall within the scope of this Regulation because it is in fact unrelated to the concept of agile work, such as road transport activities. The complexity of the safety rules - let us not forget - stems from the Second Industrial Revolution, which has characterized itself for the large factories and, in them, for heavy technologies and, therefore, for the serial and repetitive performance of the workers, to the point that even the provisions on health and safety for the work carried out in professional studies - as is appropriate here to be corrected - are in many respects similar to those of the foundry. I believe that if a professional study has characteristics similar to those of a dwelling (or, at times, it is the same dwelling) it can only have a similar regulation to that of the dwelling itself. I know that the House of Deputies has made this reference, but I hope that the delegated legislator will want to take into account the objective characteristics of that working environment and, more generally, regarding agile work, the imponderability of the chosen place that - as we also said in the Commission - could even be the gardens to which they accompany their children, while carrying out a remote performance: obviously we will not be able to attribute to the employer the rusty nail of a bench of those same gardens. Ironically apart, it emerges that the agile work calls into question the entire work system defined during the second industrial revolution and remained essentially intact in that third revolution, which did not bring significant changes. But now the changes are radical and, if we want to avoid what happened in this country on the occasion of the second industrial revolution, when the fear of the labour factor has led extraordinary technological investments aimed at saving jobs, it has led to the development of process technologies that have slowed down, due to the need for depreciation, product innovation; if we want to avoid that experience, which we have already known in the fourth, much more significant, industrial revolution, which often succeeds in replacing man in what has more original, that is, his intelligence (fortunately, still not his heart), determines processes of substitution even more widespread; we cannot but rethink the regulation of work. Above all, we cannot fail to make the choice that is suggested in this text: to definitively reverse the hierarchy of sources of labour law, so that the contract largely prevails over the law. The law has a fundamental task: to codify mandatory rights, non-negotiable rights, rights that are defined by the international conventions of the International Labour Organisation and, as regards the Union of which we are members, by the Charter of Nice. These rights have recently been codified by the Badinter Commission, also in France, as mandatory. They are the basis for doing what we could further establish, namely that the proximity contract, the business contract, the territorial contract - I hope, in future, also the individual contract - may derogate from what national laws and collective agreements have laid down, in order to adapt the needs of the parties to the common project to be carried out. This reversal of the order of sources is what characterized the law desired by the new President of the French Republic, the so-called 'loi travail' of 2016, precisely as a result of the Commission's work that I have mentioned. For this reason, in Italy with article 8 of the 2011 maneuver and with this law, in France with the recent loi travail and, to hear President Macron's commitments, with the further interventions that would shortly be prepared to propose to Parliament, in Germany since the law suggested by the Hartz committee, more and more is identified in the contract the agile and flexible instrument with which to accompany the great technological transformations and allow the social dialogue, the working relations between the parties to reach ever more evolved levels of sharing of the changes, so that the sharing concerns the efforts but above all the results. It is with this hope that I call on the House to approve the text in the terms in which it was launched by the Chamber of Deputies, confirmed by the Labour and Social Security Commission, which I have the honour to chair. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u18	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to point out that having entered my card on the contrary, my participation in the verification of the quorum has not been recorded. I was going to have my presence detected.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u19	That reassures us, but you use your card better. We take note of that. Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the measure that has been called the autonomous jobs act, approved last November 3rd 2016 here in the Senate and then in the Chamber on March 9th and now in our examination, is returning to the attention of the House, we hope for its definitive approval in law. According to Eurostat data for the third quarter of 2016, who tell us who the employees are, it turns out that in the population of working age between fifteen and sixty-four years old in our country the independent employees are 4.7 million; about 59 percent of this figure are self-employed workers, that is artisans, traders and in general what the law considers small entrepreneurs. As a percentage the Italian independents are 21.1 percent of the total employed, therefore about 2.5 million self-employed workers who have no protection or union representation. It is also supported by an ad hoc fund provided for in the Stability Act, which this year allocates 50 million. During the examination at the other branch of Parliament, the measure has undergone further modifications and filings, which have improved the text. In this brief speech, I would like to highlight some of the innovations introduced and which I consider important in the matter of self-employment, but also pointing out the contradictions existing on the subject of separate management, already taken up by President Sacconi, and in conclusion a reflection on the model of agile work and the world of disability. Among the measures contained in the matter of self-employment, I want to highlight, in the matter of security, the delegation to the Government aimed at strengthening the security and social protection benefits of professionals enrolled in orders and colleges. Article 6, paragraph 1, allows private pension funds, even in associated form, where authorised by the supervisory bodies, to activate, in addition to supplementary social security and social security benefits, also other social benefits, financed by a special contribution. To whom, then, is this formula addressed? It is aimed at those members who have suffered a significant reduction in professional income for reasons not dependent on their activity or who have been affected by serious diseases. The paragraph 1-a added during the examination of the provision to the Chamber has another delegation aimed at further increasing the social benefits for maternity and illness recognized to the members of the separate management INPS, providing that, in order to ensure the financing, the reference contribution rate may be increased not exceeding 0,5 percentage points. These provisions are accompanied by another measure approved here in the Senate, on which I had submitted a specific amendment proposal, accepted, which provides, in Article 8, for workers and workers who are to undergo cancer treatments, and therefore are unable even for a long period, the recognition of hospital stay as for other serious and disabling diseases. In addition to cancer patients, we are also talking about people suffering from diabetes, sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, heart, respiratory and kidney deficiencies, Alzheimer's disease, cystic fibrosis and more. Another appropriate amendment approved to the Chamber has made permanent the unemployment benefit for workers with a coordinated and continuous collaboration relationship (the so-called DIS-COLL), introduced experimentally by Legislative Decree No. 22 of 2015, highly anticipated and extended until 30 June 2017 by the recent decree-law of extension terms. Of course, there are still issues to be addressed, such as separate management. In this legislature, after ten years of recognition, through the Financial Act for 2007, of the three-month sickness allowance and parental leave, we managed, with the Budget Act for 2017, to allow the aggregation of the contributions of the separate management with all other contributions, in order to be able to have a single pension. There are still many other contradictions, which do not allow separate management to have equal dignity compared to other managements or other funds. But here is an objective that we, as legislators, must set ourselves: to arrive at a single text of social security, which could remedy these difficulties. Finally, this measure offers an interesting opportunity also for the world of disability, which I have dealt with in this legislature, thanks to the model of smart working. This model, according to an estimate by the Observatory of the Politecnico di Milano, already covers 250,000 employees of companies with more than 10 employees, who carry out this work in agile ways; this number has grown by 40% in the last two years. This is a widespread phenomenon, especially in large companies. This is not the case for small and medium-sized enterprises, where only 5% of workers work in this way. Therefore, for the disabled the organizational mode of agile work lends itself to interpreting - I dare say almost as if it were a tailor-made dress - the role assigned by the European and international regulations of reasonable accommodation in all its declinations. But this also concerns the situation of women, where Italy has an unemployment rate of 14%, above the European average of 10%. In 22% of cases, women who work at the time of pregnancy no longer work two years after the birth of their child, while almost half of those who continue to work face problems of reconciliation between private and working life. If they were given the opportunity to manage their working hours more flexibly and intelligently, or sometimes even to work at home, some of those who have left their jobs would be part of the world of work and it would therefore be easier to reconcile motherhood with working life. Accommodation is an adaptation to the concrete situation of normal procedures, processes or infrastructures that enable the disabled person to access, participate or progress in employment and career. Agile work, as outlined in this measure, is a form of reasonable accommodation in situations where there are difficulties in reaching the job. It is not only about the adaptation of the working position as a physical environment, of ergonomics, of devices and aids, but it is even more a model of reconciliation of the life cycle, of care and of work. So we, as a Democratic Party, are preparing to vote in favour of this measure and we hope that it will arrive very quickly at the end of its process, so that it can be used by all the self-employed who are waiting for it and finally give them the dignity and opportunities that have not been there so far, reconciling them with those already approved in the jobs act. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u21	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is certainly noteworthy because, with the work that has been done, it has finally taken note of the fragility of workers and self-employed workers in the world of self-employment, who, especially in recent years of severe crisis, suffer from the difficulties of our economic system. However, it is improper to speak of the measure in question as the status of self-employed persons. In any case, even if there are some critical, or too weak, or otherwise not fully satisfactory aspects, this legislative initiative represents a first step towards the recognition of the self-employed category. Finally, attention is paid to a sector that has so far been set aside and penalised by excessive fiscal pressure. Among the rules of the text concerning self-employment, changes to the rules on parental leave for workers and self-employed persons, as well as the most favourable rules in the case of pregnancy or maternity, should be mentioned more than others. In this respect, the reconciliation of living and working time is a particularly sensitive issue in the field of professional studies, where women represent a high percentage of employment. Moreover, it is important to note the provision on the deductibility of the training costs incurred by holders of income from self-employment, increasing from 50% to 100% the percentage allowed in deduction of certain expenses and introducing additional types of entirely deductible charges. This type of rules is mainly aimed at young people and young people, who start a career and are certainly also useful for those who decide to change their work activities, moving towards an idea of workers in continuous specialization. In a critical sense, it is necessary to consider how the protections for self-employed workers provided for in the text are all subject to additional contributions from the self-employed. Nevertheless, both for those who have suffered a significant reduction in income and for those who have suffered serious illnesses and accidents which prevent the pursuit of professional activities for more than sixty days, the payment of social security charges and insurance premiums is simply suspended for the entire duration of the illness and accident, up to a maximum of two years, but will still have to be paid later, forgetting, however, as a further facilitation, the suspension of the additional tax obligations, as well as the exclusion from the sector studies of the same self-employed. The sector studies, also with the new legislation and with the new formulation, provided for by the recent tax decree, change their name to "indices of reliability," but in fact continue to exist. Chapter II of this text contains provisions on agile work, promoted in order to increase competitiveness and facilitate the reconciliation of work-life, which is defined as a means of implementing the employment relationship. The flexible way in which the service is carried out will allow, on the one hand, to respond to the needs of workers to better combine living and working times, and, on the other hand, to companies to reduce fixed structures and costs, albeit in a relative manner. From this point of view, the measure takes a path in step with the times. However, it is important to avoid the risk of wage dumping. Another potential problem concerns the elements related to the legislation on safety at work with regard to agile work: this is a limitation that could make it less attractive for an employer to adopt or resort to agile work in relation to employees. In fact, it would have been useful to specify how the employer's liability is limited to the only instruments that are provided to the worker. President Sacconi referred earlier to the problem of responsibility towards the worker: therefore, the INAIL will have to issue precise guidelines. Beyond the positive aspects of the text, it should be noted, however, that a reform of non-business self-employment would require more substantial forms of investment by the State. The draft law under consideration, in fact, provides very few economic resources. A genuine reform of self-employment cannot be without addressing the issue of simplification of bureaucracy and taxation and general taxation. Another important issue for the world of self-employment, not addressed by the text, is access to credit, whose obvious obstacles, particularly in recent years, have forced not only many professionals to abandon or reduce their activities, but, above all, have discouraged the start of new jobs, precisely because they often lack confidence in the new worker and therefore the granting of credit by banks. I hope that delegated legislation will aim to build for these workers a welfare system that offers greater support for the present and also for the future. In the same way it is necessary to continue, so that, from a welfare point of view, the great disparities between so-called employees and the self-employed are eliminated. Senator Favero recalled that there are some unresolved aspects, including the social security system that might need to be unified in the future. In all cases the measure under discussion is an important step for the self-employed and also for the smart working, but it is a first step; it is certainly necessary to implement and improve the legislation on the subject and I hope that in the future the speech will be carried forward and improved more and more in order to respond precisely to the actual needs of the market that, unfortunately or fortunately, is changing and needs certain answers. We members of the Italy component of the Values of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of this measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u23	Mr President, in my speech during the general debate at first reading on this measure, I stressed the positive value of the legislative text under discussion, because it is a page-by-page text compared to a long period in which labour law has considered self-employment to be ontologically unrelated to its scope. At last it is recognized in an organic and accomplished way that also the self-employment has some requirements of safety, but of which the contract cannot be carried out between the parties, except to correct the eventual distortions deriving from situations of substantial economic dependence of the provider from the buyer or from abuses of dominant position from the latter. This is the approach that we find correctly in Articles 2 and 3 of the legislative text. The security needs of the self-employed provider can and must be met in the context of the social security relationship, as the measure very appropriately does. On this first part of the new law - not to repeat myself - I merely recall everything I said in my speech on 26 October. Also on the second part, consisting of Articles 18 to 23, I recall the positive notations carried out in that intervention which, however, limit themselves to the appreciation of the ratio laws, the understanding of the legislator to promote and favor what is now baptized as agile work, that is, the working relationship in which, for a specific temporal segment, the work performance is exempted from the contractual constraint of spatial-temporal coordination, thus assuming the essential traits of the autonomous performance, even in the context of a subordinate employment relationship. However, since there has been an unusually broad convergence of consensus in both this part of Parliament and the other part of this bill, I should like to propose some critical remarks on this second part of the text, a voice outside the choir, without this being considered as a misguided note. It is clear that these comments are not aimed at further amendments, since the text is intended to become a law at last and it is useful for it to become a law at once. However, it is also useful that these observations remain in the minutes in future memory, so that if the practical experience of the application of the new law shows that they have some basis, it can be taken into account in future legislative adjustments. The risk I see is that the provisions contained in this Chapter II of the measure may reduce the agility of the relationship which, on the other hand, we want to promote and preserve. The agility is not preserved if the agreement between the parties is weighed down with unnecessary transaction costs that seem to me to be born from our pernicious tendency, especially in the field of work, to the hyper-regulation, to the legification of every aspect of the relationship, even where there is no use of it, except for the ministerial bureaucrats (for these, in fact, the legislative complication involves the function of priests of the sacred mysteries, that is to say interpreters of the legislative text through circulars) and for the class of labour consultants and lawyers, to whom I belong, whose work is made indispensable. It constitutes an unjustified increase in transaction costs even the only hypertrophy of the rules, the production of legislative texts in which twenty lines say things that could be said in one line or, worse, unnecessarily repeats with new words what is already said by a general norm in reference to a particular case. Each new rule gives rise to the effort of interpreters to identify any minor difference in meaning that can be identified in each new word used by the legislator. Moreover, even the addition of those twenty lines to say nothing new constitutes an increase in transaction costs because it obliges all operators to hire a consultant to ensure that the new law does not have a change in the old discipline. I'll just give you two examples. In months of discussion on this new legislative text, I have not found anyone who has explained to me what to add to Article 21 to the general rules applicable to all working relationships in the field of remote control. These seven lines of the Official Journal that we add are completely useless and harmful to the complication of the lives of citizens that they themselves entail for the mere fact that they have been added. Similarly, in months of discussion on this text, I have found no one who has explained to me what Article 22 adds to the general protection of the safety of the employed person. This is even a matter of fifteen lines that are totally useless. In terms of the clarity and legibility of the legislative text, it is not appreciated that Article 24 has been inserted in this draft law in the Chamber, containing a provision on social security contributions for house assistants in Bolzano. It can be understood that the new law imposes on the parties the obligation to conclude the agreement on agile work in written form, even if this constitutes a small weight more than the current order, which instead allows the oral agreement. If it is also required that the written act defines - I quote - the reforms of exercise of the employer's managerial power and the instruments used by the worker (Article 19) and then it is added that the same written act must identify the conducts, connected to the performance of the performance of the work outside the premises of the company, which give rise to the application of disciplinary sanctions (Article 21 (2)), it is obliged, without any appreciable reason, the undertaking of small and medium size to avail itself of a consultant or lawyer in order to fulfil this obligation. The counselor and the lawyer, on the other hand, gives himself a cat to be bald not easy. What can be written usefully in the written agreement about the forms of exercise of the governing power towards the agile worker or about the particular conduct that can give rise to disciplinary sanctions when the performance is destined to take place outside the perimeter of the company and in the times freely decided by the worker? But above all, what kind of protective function can these two provisions have in practice? What is the abuse of the governing power of the employer or the disciplinary power that is being prevented? If we do not answer these questions, it means that these rules have no reason to be, and then it would be better not to have them included. If that first formal constraint, referred to in Article 22, appears to be of little use and potentially harmful, even more so it must be said of the obligation to hand over to the worker and to the representative of the workers, at least annually (each year this double written fulfilment must be repeated), a written information in which the general and specific risks related to the particular method of execution of the employment relationship are identified (Article 22): we are on the nail in the park bench, to which the rapporteur mentioned just now. Here I note that, in the vast majority of cases of agile work, which already exists and is already practiced in many cases in our productive fabric, this form of work consists of an activity carried out by computer connected at a distance with the organization of the company, where the additional risk, the differential risk of working at home, or where you prefer, is frankly very little appreciated. Another question would be whether this obligation was imposed only where there is a specific additional risk, therefore not in any case and even repeating the fulfillment every year, but only in cases where, for the substances used or for the machinery to be used, which is moreover more from work to home of the last century than from agile work of the 21st century, in the performance of the activity outside the premises of the company there is a concrete additional risk. In my speech last October I observed on this point that the mistake that is repeated here is the same that characterized a large part of labour legislation in the past season. On every occasion we promise the economic operators simplification of legislation and abolition of unnecessary obligations, but then, when we want to promote agile work, we fall into the temptation of the hyper-regulation and the imposition of obligations that do not exist in any order that we know, I speak of foreign laws. And this must make us think, because when an additional fulfillment exists only in Italy and in no other country, even in those much more advanced than ours on the ground of agile work, an alarm bell must trigger and warn us that perhaps we are sinning for the umpteenth time of regulatory hypertrophy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u24	Our work is followed by the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Commercial Technical Institute) Francesco Macchi and Francesco Forti (Forti) of Monsummano Terme, in the province of Pistoia, whom we thank for their presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u25	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u26	Mr President, normally we try to always be honest in doing these critical evaluations of ours. Honestly, we must say that a small step forward is being taken, but we must be honest and say that it is absolutely not enough to equate the two large categories of workers, by equalising self-employed workers with employees. Let us remember that we should be proud and extremely respectful of those who take the private initiative, i.e. those who do not ask the State for work, assistance or anything else. The only thing that the self-employed are asking is to be put in a position to work, since they know how to do their job with regard to the ordering professions and not. However, it seems that the state has almost fun pricking and regulating even where it does not serve, while sometimes it would be enough to simplify people's lives to make it easier to carry out a professional activity. We can also think badly, as we are in the pre-election phase, where opportunistic logic always prevails. It almost seems that you want to give a little cheer and show to intervene, but it is not enough to stretch your hand if there is really little inside. We are unhappy with the measure' s action, because, both in the Commission and in this House, all our amendments were rejected, which would have given greater recognition and dignity to self-employment than the rights granted to employees. Then there is the question of welfare, where no one is ever sure. In fact, when it is in difficulty and has to smooth out holes in the various institutions, the State always goes fishing on expectations perhaps of other categories. Europe is often referred to, but with alternate rhythms. If we are talking about deductibility of expenditure, we must remember that the individual invests everything in his own initiative, from machinery to structures. Let us consider expenditure on income production. Since there is now no restriction on the movement of workers, if we really want to put our professionals in a position to compete with those of other states, we must at least equalise the conditions. Let us take the case of Germany, where the professional downloads all the expenses for the production of income, for example those of the private car if used for the performance of the professional activity. In Italy, however, it is possible to download only a part of the figure, which is ridiculous compared to the value of the vehicle, as if an excessively important car is not functional to work. Therefore, let us remember that there is also a Europe when it comes to putting our production system in competition with those of Europe. We have noticed that here there has been a real confusion between the professionals enrolled in the orders and those enrolled in the separate managements. We do not like this because we see an unclear line aimed at realizing, step by step, a dismantling of professional orders and a search for the total liberalisation of the professions. We are witnessing the dismantling, one piece at a time, of orders and colleges, almost as if we wanted to make an equalization with the unqualified professions. This is a typically American vision, as you remember the new economy of clintonian memory, with the effect, typical of globalization, of removing and lowering any kind of rule and protection, creating a sort of far west professionally. We have already taken that road, removing the tariff limits. Even in 2012 we included the need to conclude the contract between the parties - professional and client - in order to provide for the exclusion of the professional tariff. I call on the Government to remember that when it publishes a public contract it itself sets a threshold under which tenders cannot be considered valid and therefore can be assessed. It is not acceptable to ask for a certain performance or for a particular work to be carried out below the threshold of a minimum cost. The contractor, in that case, will give me something else, not what I need: he will cheat or invent a way not to lose money and to provide a performance other than that required. Therefore, even in the public contract, in the typical contract between public administration and enterprise or private entity, a threshold is envisaged because it is established that under this threshold an adequate performance cannot be provided. Why could this system not also work for the liberal professions? Eliminating the tariff has created a far west, a jungle. If a certain professionalism has an actual cost it cannot be sold below cost because otherwise the professionalism itself or you work only to survive, but this does not mean creating rules to organize and make a system work well (in this case we talk about the liberal professions). This continuous depreciation of free-trade benefits, in our opinion, serves to achieve a unionization. I do not know whether the Italian Government, like some other countries in the world, wishes to trade unionise self-employment as well. I also say this because the only thing that has absolutely nothing to do with self-employment is the union. In fact, in self-employment, the professional, or in any case the craftsman or any other freelancer or self-employed, when he has a good employee, a good collaborator, keeps him for the hair and with the teeth, because the profitability, the functionality of a study and a small team depends precisely on a good collaboration. In this case, the first to protect the employee is the same employer. The union does not even serve to protect the professional, because if you do not earn enough working eight hours a day there is only one alternative: you work ten, twelve or fourteen hours a day and you do not need the union. Basically, writing in public notices that can participate all, qualified and unenabled, without any kind of professional requirement, water orders and colleges. Not even a professional requirement is required. Rome always goes in this direction: it seems that the professions want to water down instead of enhancing. One of our agendas was then clearly rejected on this issue. What is the consequence if there is no fair pay for the benefit? The professional works below cost and struggles to amortize the costs of structure. As a result, it will also be difficult to pay for its employees. It is all a "train": if we want to protect employees, we must protect the dignity of the freelancer who must receive the right remuneration to pay the right taxes, to pay the right pension and to pay their employees properly. We live in a prolonged crisis. What's the first problem? It's hard to cash in. The professionals first do not find it difficult to work but they find it difficult to cash in. In this case we would have expected the State to find a form of aid: a form of tax relief, a tax credit, a direct aid. And what did you find instead? In order to guarantee a possible non-payment, the trader may deduct the costs of an insurance that protects him from possible loss of income. Question: but does this serve to protect the freelancer or to protect insurance companies? Because here the only person who comes out of it with a useful profit and certainly is the insurance company. Here the state does not lose a euro and does not give any kind of guarantee. To be honest there are wordings that go in the sense of protecting the professional; we could list those relating to cases of illness or serious injury. Here too, however, there are a few minor objections. You give the possibility to extend the payment of social security charges by two years if during the calendar year the professional has suffered a long illness or, in any case, an accident or a serious accident. But the thing is, he needs to get paid. It's not like they're getting abbonated. Question: If the worker has not worked, either because of illness or accident, and has not been able to forfeit any kind of income, how will he do on expiry? Where will he go to find the resources to pay those charges which, rightly, have been extended to him, but not abounded? Even here, it seems that the rules are made but that the circle never closes. We asked to repeal the sector studies, which would be the only ones actually helping the professional. Now I don't know if to call them sector studies. Call them as you like, for example reliability indices; soup or wet bread: nothing has changed at all. But we continue to ask you, without having any answers: do you think that the income of a person, in this case the VAT number, the professional, depends on parameters or the actual receipts? We found the receipts aren't real. Insurance is allowed. We understand that in times of crisis we work under cost and that we can incur diseases and other events and we continue to charge, with these terms that can change, according to objective parameters and not to the real collection of the study, the company, the professional. I shall conclude, Mr President, on the subject of security. We agree that everyone must ensure maximum safety and health at work, but in the studies this has been something that has burdened costs and difficulties with difficulties. What risk can be taken in a private study? Risks are all over the place. Even at home, with domestic accidents, you can stumble into a carpet by running to the desk and you can also hurt yourself by opening an envelope with the letter opener, but here you want to exaggerate in an area that would like, vice versa, a bit of simplification. I could not say anything better about agile work than what the rapporteur has already said. We go to insert a new type of contract into national bargaining which, vice versa, according to us was to be included in second-level bargaining. But since it is written that the employer must be obliged and responsible for everything that happens in the home of his worker, this certainly is not an incentive for agile work, as no employer will be able to use this type of work with these rules that make him responsible for a site for which he has no availability. A passetto has been made, but so many dark sides remain, so many needs of this sector have been overlooked. We can also say that, all in all, we have also missed a good opportunity to give a definitive response to a sector that, until now, had never been considered by any government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u27	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u28	Mr President, the measure, at its third parliamentary reading, intervenes on a sector of the world of work of our country, that of self-employment, which was particularly affected by the economic and financial crisis. The crisis, in fact, has touched this significant part of the world of work not only on the financial and employment side but has intervened by changing the very nature of these work benefits, helping to widen the dimension of precariousness and insecurity that are marking the material conditions of much of our social fabric. Moreover, in the years of the crisis, self-employment had an extraordinary increase, leading our country to be, after Greece, the European Nation with the largest number of self-employed in relation to the total number of employees: only in October 2016, about 5 million out of a total of 22.7 million employed, representing about 23% of Italian workers. A very special situation, if we think that in France, Germany and Great Britain they are less than 15%. A fundamental feature of this increase is that, as a result of the crisis, the number of classical self-employed workers, such as professionals or consultants, has been reduced, while the number of fictitious self-employed, such as VAT matches that actually do an employee job without having rights and protection. Suffice it to say that many of these VAT matches are in a single-comity system, i.e. they work for a single company, demonstrating how much self-employment no longer represents the reality of professionals or consultants with a good turnover and high social position, but many people who, moving from a condition of dependent work to that of self-employment, have found themselves in a situation of precariousness, low income and low social protection. In addition, the number of young VAT consignments registered under the minimum scheme has increased, i.e. below the income quota of EUR 30,000 per year. These are workers who often appear in the office as employees, but who are paid with the balance of the invoice. Others are in a grey area of precariousness and high dependence on the client, which is often unique: they are workers who will never see illness, vacation, maternity, paid permits for the care of disabled family members or marriage license, and, besides that, they often receive a serious pay - I insist on the adverb - low. The spread of this type of self-employment shows, once again, how the economic crisis is influential not only in the financial and productive data of our country but also affects the living flesh of people and increasingly transforms our world of work into a territory where the areas of precariousness, scarcity of protection and inadequate incomes are still too extensive and deep. This situation led the legislator in the previous Stability Act to freeze the increase in the VAT contribution rate (which had to rise to 33%, remained at 25). On the basis of the content of the draft law, Mr President, it consists of two sets of complementary rules, aimed, on the one hand, at introducing a system of measures to protect the economic and social protection of self-employed workers and, on the other hand, at developing, within the employment relationship, flexible arrangements for the performance of the same work benefits. The aim is therefore to respond to the need to counter the fragility of self-employed workers without an adequate protection network. It is an action which, however, must not, cannot be exhausted only with the measure under consideration, but will certainly have to be completed with future interventions. A commitment - this - that the Parliamentary Group of Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement takes with determination, so that the full and consistent extension to self-employed workers of all those forms of protection and guarantees they are currently lacking. The measure, despite its partiality and in some aspects that are still perplexed, introduces, therefore, some elements of significant novelty, starting from the stabilization of the unemployment benefit which, despite the still deep limits that this institution has in Italy, gives a minimum guarantee of which those workers were lacking. It is also important - in our opinion - to extend the DIS-COLL to the PhD students and PhD students with a scholarship. This also includes the measures to be taken through delegation, aimed at providing supplementary and socio-sanitary pensions, as well as other possible social benefits by private pension funds for members whose professional income is affected by the crisis. The new guarantees will be covered by a fair increase in the reference contribution rate. Finally, interventions on maternity and sickness benefits, such as the planned establishment of the technical table on self-employment at the Ministry of Labour, are significant. Mr President, these are, in a nutshell, the positive aspects of the measure which, in my opinion, characterise this text. Two issues remain in the background, which I believe, in any case, should be noted and which the measure does not seem to be properly and fully grasped. I think, in the first instance, of the theme of agile work which, in my opinion, must be characterized as an opportunity to be taken to respond to the different needs of particular phases of life and not become yet another form of flexibility or, worse, of precarious work. And, last but not least, the unsustainable situation in which these and other workers find themselves because of their contributory pension status. This is an inescapable issue, if we do not want to condemn entire generations to a future pension not worthy - I insist: not worthy - of a civilized country. Mr President, the debate that took place here and in the House on this clear bill, if there were still any need, as the world of work in our country has suffered with the economic crisis and recession a very hard blow, which has hit the workers and their families, generating insecurity for economic conditions, concern for the instability of working life, fear for their future, especially among young people. It is therefore necessary to better organize a universalist system of social protection that overcomes rigid divisions by categories of workers, giving all the necessary tools to have a network of protection in a path of work and life increasingly in transformation, assuming the theme of the generational gap as a great social issue. There is no doubt that globalisation, like the digital revolution, allows us to see a shift of specific weight from dependent labour to self-employment, and for this reason the need to deal with the protections of the latter too is greater. It is not acceptable that women and men should, in order to maintain a job, be forced to lose rights, guarantees and economic status, while at the same time generating a tragic auction for those who offer themselves at the lowest cost and a spread of conditions of instability and economic constraints that will continue to make the prospects of growth and increase consumption completely illusory. Experience of the effects of jobs act has shown, beyond doubt, that it is not through the reduction of rights that we can take the path of new employment and recovery. On the contrary, stable, secure and protected employment by a social security network are essential conditions for economic development and even for the democratic maintenance of our country. This is the path that must be taken and not that of favoring a downward precariousness, that humiliates people, prevents their social and cultural promotion and deserts our economic system. This measure can, therefore, be considered a step forward in this respect, even if it is timid and with several aspects still to be addressed. In any case, it must be included in a broader framework of labour market and social protection reform in the direction of greater universality, security and social justice. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u29	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u30	Mr President, we, as the 5 Star Movement, have a great deal of attention for small entrepreneurs, for self-employment and, in general, therefore, for workers who are not part of those megastructures and megaenterprises, who very often come to Italy and, by practicing torn prices, devastate the market, acting at the limits of legality and fair competition. Therefore, this is an interesting measure in its first part, so it seems to be between Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. In the Commission too, I have made comments on this measure. The 5 Star Movement asked for the possibility of removing the part referring to agile work with respect to the part that refers to self-employment, because it is two completely different subjects and in my opinion there has been a force in going to include in the same measure such uneven subjects, so different and that they really have nothing to do with each other. We have tried to propose a number of amendments since last time, and we believe that little has been done with respect to fair compensation. We have seen that agendas will be presented, which we will certainly support, also because today we know very well that there are some clients - and we wanted more attention on this too - especially when there is monocommittency, which alas are almost at the limit of fraud. Our labour and social security supervisory authorities should pay some attention, but we legislators must provide them with the tools to do so, because very often behind these activities, at least formally, self-employment, are actually quite different types of activity, which are all but autonomous and therefore are used precisely to pay for people's work at a low price. For this reason it is essential to introduce a minimum in Italy once and for all; in this case a fair compensation, since we are talking about self-employment. Moreover, with regard to self-employment, we would have really liked that a serious discipline had been introduced that would change what we usually know as the discipline on sector studies, also because if they are self-employed, small, it really doesn't make any sense to have sector studies. A self-employed person has to work and then maybe he has to pay attention to his investments, always in activity, in machinery or tools that serve for his work: that is small you can see it from other things. Of course, the sector studies today do not make any sense and we know very well that they will have to be overcome, but when it comes to small self-employed people we should never reason with such studies. Another bitter bite that we have had to swallow is the provision that fears the increase in the contribution rates of separate management, a financial management that we have attacked since 2013, since we entered Parliament, not as a concept but for the current structure. We believe that the State must take charge of this type of worker; but it was necessary - and there have been receptions in this sense, of which we are pleased - to separate the two types of workers who are currently registered for separate management. I refer to parasubordinate workers and self-employed workers, who are two completely different types. We talked about the monocommittency and we said that we must be careful there; this measure could be a way to provide for further protection in those cases too. We are pleased with the reinstatement of the DIS-Coll, which we supported, because we believe that the unsubordinate relationships must be fully supported, with an income, when the employment relationship ceases. We are also pleased about the disease and maternity, the openings and the enlargement of the protections that have been made. We absolutely agree with these points, but we are always talking about the first part of the measure, so we are always talking about self-employment. Another thing on which we were completely in agreement is the introduction of sanctions when there is a unilateral modification, by the contractor, of the contract concluded with the professional. Well, this is Dr. Jekyll; now let's go see Mr. Hyde, let's see the ugly part, that is, the agile work. I would like to point out some parts of the measure, which we actually pointed out at first reading, but our reports have fallen into the void. Well, agile work. Without prejudice to the fact that it has been made clear that this is a method of execution, but not a new type of relationship, what is established in this agreement? 18:13 p.m. (Follow PUGLIA). Through the agreement between the parties, forms of organisation are also established for phases, cycles and objectives and without precise constraints of time or workplace, with the possible use of technological tools for the performance of work. This last part is beautiful and modern; but there is another part. We have said: "by agreement between the parties, including through forms of organisation for stages, cycles and objectives and without precise constraints of time or place of work". Further it is specified that the work performance is carried out, in part inside business premises and in part outside without a fixed position - and so far it can also be - within the limits only - attention - maximum working time duration daily and weekly......................................................................................................................................... If we then combine these two arrangements, i.e. without precise constraints of working time or place of work, and within the maximum working time limit alone, I put myself in the position of a labour inspector who must check the authenticity of that working relationship with respect to working hours. He's never gonna make it. He will never be able to prove that, for example, that worker is working fifty hours per week for that company, and that he does not respect the time that has been defined by the contract, which may be equal to ten hours per week. It will never succeed, unless it is the same worker who, in a pioneering way, denounces his employer. Therefore, this is an invitation to those employers to bypass some of the stakes contained in the legislation on part-time work. Let us remember that according to the rules governing the part-time employment contract, when I, the employer, want to conclude this type of contract with the worker, I must do so in writing, also indicating, in a precise manner, the working time. For example, I must point out from what time to what time the worker will work on Monday and from what time to what time he will do so on Tuesday. If through the agile work there will be no more this particular constraint, I will put in what I want and that the inspector will also come to impose a sanction because the worker is working outside the working hours agreed: I will make him "marameo"! In fact, the inspector will never be able to prove this unless, I repeat, he is the same worker - which is very difficult, even if it can happen - to raise the case. If we start from this data (then we can also read in the text some positive things and some very modern phrases, that make us imagine that this type of execution goes well with respect to modernity), but if we start from this assumption and "let's" to incorrect and unfair practices, everything else - as someone said - is boring. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u31	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u32	Madam President, this measure is an opportunity that helps to remedy some of the problems, but it is not in the name of simplification as it would have been hoped. I am particularly aware of inconsistencies, which cause difficulties in application, and of complications. For example, I do not find the reason for the inclusion of Article 11, or the delegation to the Government to adopt one or more legislative decrees for the reorganization of the existing provisions on safety and health at work. This seems absurd to me, because at a time when we are preparing a single text it is absurd to envisage another one: it would suffice to insert a further article - which we still do not have - that speaks, once and for all, of safety and health at work with a single text. I therefore call on you to lighten the rules, to work on this, but without thinking about making more unique texts: this is the first thing that comes to mind. Another aspect in the text, which I want to highlight, is the risk of orders and colleges that are given many new posts: I do not know what role they have and how they can intervene. Also the technical table of permanent comparison referred to in Article 17 leaves me a little puzzled, because one account is the institution of the comparison, and one account is to think of referring to the umpteenth specific table, which often becomes irreconcilable for life and that maybe it could have "assembled" together with other tables. I would also like to point out some aspects which are lacking and on which I would have expected an intervention. For example, one is that of fair compensation, i.e. the reference rate that ensures the quality of the work done and the dignity of the professional, which is also related to the quality of the work done. Professionals believe that it is essential to re-introduce guidance references to professionals' remuneration, because this measure would help around 2.4 million professionals, who produce employment for an employee of about 4 million people. Fair compensation is necessary because many forms of unsubsidiary work have been seriously affected by the economic crisis and, if professionals were once privileged categories, at present most of these workers are in a position of inferiority compared to the clients, usually strong contractual subjects, able to prevail their interests to the detriment of the professionals in the contractual imbalances that sometimes conceal forms of exploitation. At present, the constitutional protection provided by Article 36 of the Constitution is not valid for the liberal professions, which is specifically reserved for employees only, which gives each worker a compensation related to the quality and quantity of work. The abolition of professional tariffs has entrusted the quantification of the remuneration to the bargaining between professional and client and has impoverished the professionals, who, because of the phenomenon, denounce a loss in terms of the quality of the services offered. Addressing the problem of tariffs in more general terms, untiring it from the present economic circumstances, is useful in order to be able to cope with a theoretical reasoning. The tariffs, in theory, are an obstacle to competition - agreed - but only apparently, because today the worker is also willing to earn much less; moreover, the tariffs are certainly an additional cost and create an imbalance in the regulation of competition. Moreover, with lower prices, people who have the theoretical possibility of accessing professional services are in greater numbers and should theoretically expand the market; however, the crisis has hit the middle class that can no longer seek professional advice. For all the reasons described above, tariffs are nothing more than the gain of the freelancer; they can be compared to the wages of all other workers and in this regard comes an absurdity: if the tariffs are a sort of wage, if we abolish the minimum rates we should also abolish the minimum wage, but this does not occur to us to do so. Another important issue that could be strengthened is the simplification of tax certification. We have the absurdity of the so-called meter with quarterly periodicity (semestral for 2017) and we all agree to define it as an unnecessary and harmful burden, so it is necessary at least that this fulfillment is annual. This is rightly supported in the International Monetary Fund report, as an annual frequency is more than sufficient to provide aggregated data for each customer and supplier. The same argument is also supported by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in its report on the Italian tax administration. The communicative obligation of the data of the invoices issued and received should therefore always have an annual frequency and should also be fulfilled in simplified form, for example by aggregation of the data of the transactions per customer. All the benefits currently envisaged for the telematic transmission of invoices only, including priority in the execution of VAT refunds, and the reduction of time limits for VAT and direct taxes by two years, provided traceability is ensured, should be ensured in order to avoid tax evasion. A measure that would be useful for simplification is the drafting of a tax code or a series of unique texts, in order to give the legislation the necessary systematicity and unity, with a general part of the code that includes few and clear fundamental principles, immutable over time, that can constitute a sort of statute of the rights and duties of the taxpayer, and a special part that incorporates in the various titles, chapters, sections, the provisions of the texts unique, rendering them synergistic and refining the terminology. This would ensure the elimination of unnecessary rules, coordinating on the subject the others, not only those substantive rules governing individual taxes (IRPEF, IRES, IRAP, VAT, registration tax, donation taxes and succession), but also procedural and procedural ones, such as the rules relating to the determination, collection, penalties and litigation. It is also necessary to rationalise the timetable for tax deadlines: this is an essential step which can make a considerable contribution to the simplification of the tax system. It would be necessary to establish a technical table - in this case yes - with the main institutional actors, in which to define the new timetable of deadlines. An automatic extension of the time limits for tax obligations is required. In implementation of the rules of the Charter of the Rights of the taxpayer, it should be expressly provided for the automatic extension of the time limits for the submission of declarations and communications and the time limits for payment in the event of delays in making available on the Agency's website the revenue of the applications necessary to carry out the obligations. A minimum period of 60 days from the date of publication of the software on the website of the Revenue Agency should be provided for all such obligations. In the case of declarations submitted more than 90 days after the deadline, the current forecast that the declaration submitted after the deadline (i.e. 90 days after the deadline) is deemed to be omitted shall be exceeded. This should coincide with the time limit for the submission of the declaration relating to the subsequent tax period for systematic reasons as well as because it is not reasonable to accept the repentance even after more than three years for a declaration submitted in terms, even if wrong, and not to admit the repentance of a declaration for which the omission is realized just after, for example, four months after the expiry of the deadline for submission. There are also reasons for technological evolution as the Revenue Agency today has the opportunity to verify in real time whether a taxpayer has omitted a statement. Therefore, it could also be assumed that the taxpayer will be informed of the omission, giving him the opportunity to revisit himself within the time limit for submitting the declaration relating to the following tax period. I now come to VAT per cash, which allows the entrepreneur or self-employed person to postpone the payment of the tax on supplies of goods and services from the time of carrying out the transaction to that of collection. In the same way, the right to deduct VAT on goods and services purchased arises at the time of payment of fees to suppliers. Currently, VAT per cash is only used by professionals and entrepreneurs who have a turnover - not a gain, be careful - not more than two million euros. Briciole, although until 2015 it was really miserable. It applied only to those who had a turnover of no more than 200,000 euros. The cash VAT scheme should be extended to amounts above, at least up to EUR 10 million. Why do I have to pay VAT before I get my credit? In this way the professionals who invoice more than two million euros annually are used as ATMs by the State. Cash is collected before the professional has received the fee and with the phenomenon of late payments this almost always happens. It is not right that I should borrow money from the bank, paying interest payable, to pay a tax that I have not yet received in payment. With the current limit are saved are the largest and most powerful professional studies, which bill well over two million euros, those that have not been put in trouble by the crisis and can anticipate what exceeds the two million turnover without problems because they have a lot of liquidity on the account and do not need bank loans to pay taxes. Finally, I would like to turn to the support of young people for the teaching of professions, arts and crafts. Such a measure would enable traditional work to be maintained and, at the same time, would preserve and develop the knowledge of the past, also encouraging the emergence of new creativity, networking the experience of mature workers with the enthusiasm of young workers. From the experimentation and sharing of knowledge we would get the recovery of our ancient history, the ancient wisdoms, accompanied by the production of new knowledge. It would ensure the development of craft occupations. Synergy would support the development of youth creativity and the contemporary preservation of creative works, of almost disappeared crafts, that if combined with new forms of communication and production on the net would guarantee a future in the past because adults can make available to young people their skills and young workers can collaborate with adults creating a sort of generational pact to give a job potential to the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u33	Madam President, I think that the two issues of self-employment and agile work, being completely different, should have been the subject of separate measures. To the Chief I am talking about self-employment, but in fact it is a matter of employed work because it is a worker when he is exclusively and economically dependent on a single and strong contractor. And then, I wonder how a worker of this kind can be called self-employed. In Chapter II, we talk instead of agile work. You of the Government and the majority have gathered everything in one expression: smart working. For those who do not know it, let's talk about the jobs act for the self-employed and agile workers, who, however, after this measure, of self-employed and agile will have very little, because of protection and rights really will have few. In fact, since jobs act, as we have said and because - someone before me mentioned - the data are what they are, many are the negative aspects of this provision, but I will list them later in the explanation of vote. I shall now deal briefly with just a few issues, from the discrimination that can be created on the subject of wages, to the enormous problem that will arise in the area of safety at work. When I said that, when he began examining this measure seven or eight months ago in the Commission and then in this House, as always many were smiling. But I saw that a few days ago Il Sole 24 ORE also raised the issue, and now I see that the President of the Commission also has doubts about it. As always, I say: well come, better late than never. The discrimination will be, as I said, both on the subject of safety at work, that you try to dump everything on the shoulders of the workers, and on the salary, but I could continue. I would like to focus on the speech I have heard from the President of the Commission, Senator Sacconi, on the individual agreement, which has only partially been modified in the House. I have respect for all opinions, but it is clear that the individual agreement is being re-proposed with ever greater force, from experience I tell you that from the individual agreement the worker has never benefited. Never. History should teach us something, but I see that it always comes back, despite some changes that do not say it all and that partly leave a window open, and therefore I am seriously concerned. I have heard various interventions and since the individual agreement in fact cancels collective bargaining and in fact the union - now that of attacking the union is a sport that is expanding more and more, as if the laws made it the union and not the politics, but obviously it is fashionable to attack it - I would like to say something about this, because it is never out of the question when someone attacks, in my opinion, democratic associations that have made the history of our country. Firstly, because - I mean forcefully - the union is always needed; secondly, because - I want to emphasize - the union is not all the same. When you attack the union and all the trade unionists indiscriminately, I, who have a union history made up of the union, feel at least called into question. I said this because I think that an attack of this nature is troubling, because I believe - and I want to reiterate this forcefully - that such an attack on the whole union in an indiscriminate way is really dangerous. For my story, I tell you that the unions are not all the same and we must always have respect when we talk about the real people who represent the world of work, because - I want to try to link it to what I am saying - trade unionists are usually first of all workers who get up in the morning, go to work like everyone else and then, in a free and autonomous way, decide to defend their working colleagues. In my opinion, therefore, we must have a further form of respect, because when I listen to a certain type of speech I really feel offended. I have already talked about the issue of safety at work, which I will of course look into in the explanation of vote. Unprecedented disputes will open on this front. In fact, you say that the workstation will no longer be fixed and that, therefore, the work will no longer be like what we know. I am talking about the agile work that may take place at home: there will no longer be a permanent place and the worker will be able to organize his work anywhere. There is, however, a reflection that I would like to share with this House. Already today there are serious problems with regard to the issue of accidents in itineraries. At present, a worker suffering from a road accident has problems in being recognized as an accident in itinerary even if he has not made use of the public vehicle or even if he has walked a slightly different road from the usual route to work. I repeat, the worker has serious problems being recognized as an accident of this kind, with serious consequences in the course of work and in all the rest. I think it is dangerous not to apply the unique text and safety at work as it is, looking for some loopholes or in some way to soften its predictions. Colleagues, I told you six or seven months ago and I repeat now: with reference to agile work will open up unparalleled disputes about safety. I talked about the accident on the road, but do we want to talk about the workloads? Someone before me has already said that we are talking about weekly hours, but not daily hours. Who will be responsible for the workloads? The worker can also work outside the home, but he must agree with the employer. The agile worker therefore cannot choose where to work on his own, as he must agree. Then why download the issue of safety entirely on the workers? I believe that this reflection must be made, also because - I repeat - when, with the measure under consideration, you grant this additional possibility, the only one that will certainly benefit will be the employer, who will save on the table, on electricity and practically everything. Since you say that you want to normalize self-employment and agile work, I wonder why not seriously address these issues that I myself - you are my witnesses - raised from the first moment, talking about it seven months ago. Since then they have remained as they were and since you could no longer hide the fact that the problem exists, you have postponed it. I think this thing is really dangerous. I would like to relate to the subject of the union, an organization that is always needed. You must remember that the unions are not all the same and so it is really annoying to make the whole grass a bundle. These issues are subject to negotiation and, therefore, the worker must not be left alone in the face of the economic overpower of the contractor or employer. It is a very simple thing, which can understand anyone who wants to understand and is not in bad faith. On the subject of wages and security, proceedings will be opened, as there will be discrimination, and I will give details in the explanation of vote. For these reasons, we cannot vote for a measure such as this, since you have had the time - about seven months - to improve the critical aspects, respecting the ideas of each one, and you have not done so. I would, of course, never vote for the jobs act because it has caused so many disasters, but if we really have respect for the ideas of everyone, and those of the workers in the first place, at least we take care of the demands raised by everyone. Most people now remember that there is also the issue of security. That is why we cannot vote on this measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u34	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Faculty of Law of the University of Salento in Lecce, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u35	Senator Bertacco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the measure under consideration today, which was dismissed by the House of Members on 9 March 2017, concerns changes to the protection of non-entrepreneurship self-employment and measures to promote flexibility in the workplace. This provision of law has taken the nickname of "jobs act for the self-employed" but we hope that this nickname is more productive than the original jobs act, and that it involves greater guarantee for the self-employed. New safeguards for self-employed persons may be observed within the measure, which were not satisfactorily guaranteed by previous labour policies. The bill, as we know well, is made up in Chapter I of articles aimed at the protection of self-employment, such as: extension of parental leave to fathers up to six months, within the first three years of the infant's life and with calculation of the contribution over a period of eighteen months and the support and guarantee of the care treatment in periods of serious illness, also for cases involving a hospital stay. Such guarantees until recently were not provided by law in a specific way. They are working guarantees that finally begin to compose a welfare system even for workers until now less protected, that is the self-employed, even if it is really only a start, a small step, and that before talking about true protection there are still many steps to take. This law certainly gives a positive boost to the protection of the self-employed in terms of maternity and sickness, but above all it aims to encourage women's employment. In Chapter II, then, the discipline of agile work is included, the smart working, and the protection of the figure of the agile worker is envisaged, stating that, with equal duties, he will have to receive a fair economic compensation not inferior to his colleagues who are subject to the corporate frameworks of collective agreements, being able also to take advantage of the accident insurance. The self-employed themselves will be able to agree with the company on the objectives to be achieved in terms of productivity. All this without constraints of time and places, and with the support of technological tools for the performance of the job. The employment relationship between the two parties, employer and professional, will have to see guaranteed the time of disconnect, that is the rest period that belongs to the worker, both inside and outside the company. In a world that runs irrepressibly towards the future, without ever looking back, our country cannot stand still and watch. We need a qualitative leap in terms of the protection of self-employment, we need no more discrimination of role for the different types of contract within a company. We need Italian workers to be protected both as women and as future mothers. We need to reduce the excessive tax burden on these professionals. We need the smart manufacturing (digital development within industrial processes) to be at the forefront and to be able to compete head-to-head with other operators within the global market. It is before our eyes the difficulty that Italy, in terms of work and employment, is experiencing in recent decades. We can no longer slow down the development of self-employed and workers in general. In conclusion, we cannot forget, or contradict, our opposition and dissatisfaction with the economic policies at work and the development that the last central-left governments have implemented. In fact, we have always been in favour of the protection of self-employment in all its facets, and we welcome this measure as a step, albeit timid, in the direction that Forza Italia has always hoped for. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the second reading of the House, I hope that the Senate will finally be able to complete the process of this measure, allowing our order to have, after several decades, an organic discipline for self-employment. In the first reading we have already pointed out that in recent decades, in fact, the demand for new professional figures by the market, accompanied by the introduction of rules that have created new types of collaboration contracts, have made the self-employment category very different from the past and certainly no less worthy of protection than that of employee work. On the contrary, it is certain that the effects of the economic crisis in recent years have fallen particularly on them and only in recent years has the problem of their recognition really been raised as a category of workers in need of attention and protection, also because of the weakness, if not the absence, for a long time, of associative instruments identifiable as credible supporters of their claims. That is why we talked about a crisis of representativeness in the world of work, in particular with regard to self-employment. And that is why it is so important for our country today to take care of their recognition, the recognition of a category of workers who need new standards of protection and protection today for them absent. It has been pointed out, rightly, that Italy is, among the European countries, the one, after Greece, with the highest number of self-employed: between 23 and 26 percent, statistics tell us, about the total number of people employed. A percentage that makes us say that it is not always true self-employment, but often it is forms of work that are essentially subordinate, disguised only by self-employment. Among other things, therefore, we must understand how the new rules can discourage those distorting forms of self-employment. And I think that they, the new rules, restrict the use of these relationships for distorting purposes. First of all, Article 3 does so when it defines unfair and ineffective clauses which confer on the contracting authority the right to unilaterally change the terms of the contract or, in the case of a contract with continuous performance, to withdraw from it without appropriate notice. But one of the most positive aspects of the bill seems to me to have the objective of finally building, for the self-employed, a system of guarantees and safeguards that I would also call an update of our welfare, capable of giving the first important answers to their needs. It does so, for example, by providing that employment centres and bodies authorised for work intermediation are provided with a window dedicated to self-employment. It certainly seems to me to be a conquest of civilization in Article 12, which introduces a rule that has long been required, in particular by self-employed workers. It is expected that the maternity allowance will be paid regardless of actual abstention from work. There is also, at last, the recognition of parental leave for fathers who are self-employed. Very important, then, is Article 13: the pregnancy, illness and accident of self-employed workers who work continuously for the client do not result in the termination of the employment relationship, whose execution, at the request of the worker, remains suspended without consideration for a period not exceeding 150 days a year. Unfortunately, the Chamber has also confirmed the provision that this principle is conditioned by the fact that the client has no interest in leaving the contract. I say 'unfortunately' because I personally would have preferred the House to have passed this arrangement. In my view, this is a very important provision which provides for the possibility of replacement for self-employed women by their own family members. Among other things, the worker's presence with her replacement is also envisaged. Equally important is Article 12, which clearly formalizes the fact that cooperation is intended to be coordinated only when the collaborator organises his/her own work. The House, in essence, has, in my opinion, improved the text as we had fired him at first reading in the Senate. I would like to mention in particular two provisions: first, those of Article 5, which significantly amended the provisions voted in the Senate, limiting the subject of the article provided for only the possibility of putting back to the professions organized in orders and colleges acts of public administrations where the third-party of the professionals in charge is ensured and the exclusion of potential situations of conflict of interest, as well as the respect of the protection of personal data in the exercise of these functions. The introduction by the Chamber of Article 7, which makes the so-called DIS-Coll structural, i.e. unemployment benefit for workers with continuous and continuous collaboration contracts, is also of great importance. It is a matter of justice for those workers who take nothing away from the right reflections - which I heard earlier - on an uncertain future, especially from the point of view of pension treatment, for those workers. This is a first step, however very important, for the recognition of the full dignity of these workers. Finally, the provisions of Chapter II of the draft law in question regulate the agile work by clarifying that this institute is not a new type of contract but a particular way of carrying out the service of subordinate work, based on the flexibility of schedules and premises and characterized first of all by the increased use of computer, telematic and other possibilities that technology offers today for the performance of the work tasks. The agile work is characterized by the absence of a fixed position during the periods of work carried out outside the business premises. To the worker who carries out his activities through agile working methods, economic and regulatory treatment is applied - I believe that this point is to be clarified with absolute certainty, also in order to address some considerations that do not seem to me to correspond to the reality of what is written in the text to our examination - not inferior to that of those who carry out their activities in an ordinary way for the same tasks. To that worker the employer must guarantee - the rule is clear on the point - the right to health and safety according to the general and specific risks related to the particular way in which the employment relationship is carried out. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that this measure certainly does not solve all the problems of self-employment and some concerns about the application of the rules on agile work will probably remain. But I believe that today we are taking an important step in the recognition of new safeguards for workers who have been deprived of fundamental rights for too long. The road is still long, but I think that with this measure we do justice to those workers and we do something important for them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u39	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u40	Madam President, I will make a few comments, partly because in many speeches my fellow Members have expressed their appreciation for the text and, on the other hand, it has been the result of intensive work by the Commission. The text that came before the House of Deputies, as we have seen, has been corrected to a very limited extent. It is a very different text from the original one of the Government, which referred only to non-orderistic professions and had a much less comprehensive definition of agile work than the cases that are emerging on the basis of the use of new technologies. In particular, I would like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Bertacco, Mr Angioni and Mr Favero, but also my colleague, Mr Divina, who acknowledged that this measure is in any case a step ahead of the legislation in force. I would like to say, in particular to Mr Ichino, that simplification is not a technical fact, but a political fact. Simplification is the strenuous achievement of a political culture based, in my opinion, first of all on positive anthropology, that is, on a presupposition of confidence in the ability of the parties to self-regulate on the part of the legislator. It is no coincidence that I have spoken of a reversal of the hierarchy of sources, in the belief that the new labour law can only be produced mainly by the contract, rather than by the rigid legislative source. The rules on agile work would need some incremental content; it would probably have been appropriate to adapt the rules on occupational health and safety to the agile working arrangements. I would remind Mr Barozzino that the discipline contained in this text essentially confirms the regulation of the single text, but that there are problems of adaptation. I have allowed myself, in the introductory report, to point out the appropriate exchange between lower requirements, especially when they are widely incompatible with the agility characteristics of remote work, with increased health surveillance. Where health surveillance is strengthened, where it takes on a holistic character, it addresses the person's integrity and prevents the formation of conditions of need for health. This theme will remain open. The change of work, which we are calling agile work and which is progressively contaminating all the work, is interpreted by the more as an evolution of work also and above all from the point of view of the ways in which the person can express his/her potential through work and at the same time reconcile this time with that dedicated to learning or to family needs. I sincerely do not understand the concerns about working time, also because the time of the disconnect will have to be adjusted and this measure for the first time introduces an unsanctioned right - promotional, I realize - to the disconnect. The individual contract, however, does not have the power to derogate from collective bargaining and therefore it is only the natural place where a new type of contract is not regulated, but only the way in which the typical services can be performed. Precisely because these performances take place outside the perimeter of the working environment, it is a convergent interest of the parties to be able to define the ways in which they are carried out in such terms that they allow productivity to that performance, but also a better quality of life for the providers of work. To Senator Fucksia I would like to say that I understand her aspiration to a more general reinterpretation of the subject of health and safety (I have just mentioned it about the transformation of subordinate work), but I would like to remind you that today, fortunately, we agree largely on the rigidity of the single text with regard to the working environments, in the sense that professional study, especially when it is not characterized by complex technologies, when it is even the residence of the professional, deserves a simpler regulation than that which can be applied to a factory by heavy technologies and by the impact on the activity of people very different from that of a professional study. The relative delegation, which stems from an amendment of mine and which, as such, I warmly defend, is dedicated precisely to an initial adaptation of the uniform provisions on health and safety to the different working environments. I don't think I have to say anything else about that. To Senator Puglia, who was talking about working time, I would like to say, if you will allow me, that in this case, at least in relation to remote working hours, the worker is not to be a weak contractor, unless certain mechanisms are created. In other words, we cannot consider, at least for this profile and at least in this case, the provider as a weak contractor. Theoretically, it might be the employer's interest to ensure adequate continuity of performance, but the parties in this case have clearly agreed to measure the quality of the service, rather than working time, on the result of the work itself. I repeat my appeal to colleagues to confirm the text approved by the House, so that it can be finally approved, so that the request for amendments to be withdrawn in advance, because, although they are often worthy of consideration, they are contrary to this objective, which seems to me to be preferable at this time. I would also like to appeal to all the parliamentary groups, including the opposition groups, for an assessment of the substance of these measures, in line with the constructive climate that has developed within the Commission and which has seen many convergent considerations, so that we can hope for a vote beyond the borders of the parliamentary majority. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u41	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u42	Madam President, I should like briefly to refer to a number of points which I too, on behalf of the Government, consider that, if possible and hopefully, this is the last parliamentary passage, and by agreeing with the rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, that the measure, in the parliamentary process, has certainly been modified, enriched and integrated with respect to the initial text produced by the Government. No less, it seems to me that the overall ratio of the measure has changed; if anything it has been enriched and integrated, but the objectives that the Government proposed with this provision are certainly confirmed. In particular, I would like to recall them here, also to reply to Senator Puglia, who spoke of a two-faced measure (Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde). Perhaps the Senator has escaped the overall ratio of the measure, which can only be understood in the more general reform of the work that the previous Government and this Government have conducted and that they want to carry out with this parliamentary act. In particular, therefore, it must be recalled what has been laid down and the essential choices made in that measure known and known as jobs act, which had first of all an essential objective, that of bringing back the forms of employees to the standard employment contract, that is to say to the employment contract. In fact, it was known that in the past years non-standard forms of contract had multiplied somewhat, often in elusive form (project work, associations in participation); this situation had essentially caused damage and injury to rights, particularly to workers and in particular to young workers. The Government then intervened first on this grey area, which had been regulated from time to time, almost giving rise to a tertium genus between employed and self-employed work. Instead of following the path of previous years, it was preferred to reorder the discipline, canceling or reducing the so-called hybrid contractual forms, so as to refocus the contractual form on the subordinate work. It was intended to overcome the hypocrisy of a parasubordination, made up of self-employed workers only on paper but subordinate in substance. First of all this step has been taken and therefore, this operation of cleaning the spurious zone between autonomy and subordination, remained to take an important step, which is the one contained in the first part of the measure under consideration, that is to protect, enhance and stimulate the genuinely autonomous work, which is strategic for the most advanced part of the economic and productive fabric of the country. In fact, in the independent work and also in the diversified forms in which it has manifested itself in these years is concentrated an important share of the professionalities to highest added value, that also guarantees to the small and medium enterprises those specialized competences necessary to the continuous process of technological and organizational innovation. In a certain sense, it is intended to achieve a genuine statute for the rights and protection of self-employed workers, which must in no way be a small-scale imitation of the typical traits of employed work, but rather, on the contrary, it must enhance and protect precisely the specific characteristics of the autonomy of organisation and management of professional activity, supporting all those, particularly the youngest, who want to set up their own, asserting their own professional skills. It is no coincidence that the safeguards introduced in the first part of the measure have to do with the protection of both in the contract with the client and in the labour market, also making available to these actors services that promote orientation in the labour market and access to employment opportunities also to public administrations. Thirdly, there is provision for the strengthening and extension of social security rights, ranging from sickness, accident, maternity, parental leave, to the reduction of the tax burden, to the stimulation of quality self-employment, through tax deductions for training and the development of the profession. Moreover, in the passage of the text to the Chamber of Deputies, confirmed in the Commission to the Senate, the new article 7 was introduced, which stabilizes and extends the unemployment benefit for workers with coordinated and continuous collaboration, known as DIS-COLL. This is an important measure, which concerns a significant number of people, particularly young people, self-employed workers, but also checkers and PhD students. In this sense, this is the second step. The third step concerned what is called smart work, or simply and more clearly agile work. In fact, the reorganization of the whole system of employed work within the figure of employed work and the new system of protections for self-employment under the new conditions in which it is manifesting do not cancel the need to reorder and regulate in a different way the services of employed work, which, in the face of the strong changes both in technology and organizational terms, now concern a not insignificant number of workers of many business realities, who have already experienced, either directly or contractually, agile forms of work. So this third step goes in some way to complete the design and meets the opportunities for the development of work activities that the new technologies allow; perhaps, it also goes to facilitate the provision of work in a country where the system of transport, services and welfare is not so efficient and so widespread throughout the national territory, so as not to lose opportunities and skills of people without resorting to a different form of contract. In fact, we are not facing a new contractual form, but simply a different form of work performance. It seems to me that the changes introduced to the House also provide, on the one hand, a reference in employment contracts to the way in which to ensure safety at work and, on the other hand, the need to ensure that this different form of agile work can become an ordinary element of work, without thereby canceling the protections and essential rights of persons who choose or undertake this form of work performance. In short, I believe that, overall, with the passages had first to the Senate and then to the Chamber and finally again here, to the Senate, the provision gives a significant balance to the innovative choices that were made initially in the text of the bill. I also believe that, through the successive legislative decrees that the Government will have to issue within a year, it will allow to resolve some aspects that remain in some way problematic or, in part, unsatisfactory, in order to ensure that this choice of important change and overall redesign of the protections of work, both self-employed and dependent, has its overall coherence. I would like to express my thanks for the work done by the 11th Parliamentary Commission of the Senate which, on the one hand, has accepted and contributed to this change, so as to favor the effectiveness of the measure, moreover somewhat expected by a not insignificant number of people, in particular by those who perhaps in the past years have seen a lack of attention from the Governments for this type of activity and self-employment and who now find instead greater possibilities of protection and greater potential for development and professional growth for themselves, for the companies for which they work and for the country. [[Applause from Senator Sacconi's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u43	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Colleagues, appreciated the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u46	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, tomorrow morning, 11 May, there will be yet another protest in front of Palazzo Chigi and Montecitorio. That of tomorrow, however, is very particular, because it will be participated by a delegation of 94 mayors of the province of Lecce, who will accompany a well-known and highly esteemed oncologist, Dr. Giuseppe Serravezza, scientific manager of the Italian League for the fight against cancer (LILT) of Lecce, to ask a very simple thing to those who live in those palaces, Palazzo Chigi for the precision, that is the possibility of being heard. That community of Salento, in fact, has repeatedly urged the Presidency of the Republic and the Presidency of the Council to a simple meeting in order to represent the situation regarding the Trans-Adriatic pipeline, whose work, as is known to many of you, is proceeding. Such work has so far only partially affected the territory, but the expectations in environmental and health terms are more than worrying for the Salento territory. Faced with these requests for listening, there was no kind of feedback. Dr. Serravezza has been conducting a hunger and thirst strike for twelve days and it is an initiative he does not usually do. It is not a person who easily allows himself to make his own battles for the environment and health with an instrument as strong as the hunger strike, so much so as to endanger his own health. He's already lost 12 kilos and his kidney functions are already altered. He decided to suspend the hunger and thirst strike for three days to accompany this delegation of 94 citizens with the tricolor bands on the chest that will be in front of Palazzo Chigi tomorrow morning. Deputy Minister Bellanova, with an air of excitement, said that it was too late to talk about TAP and possible alternative solutions. I, the Salento parliamentarians and all my group's colleagues think that it is never too late to look for every way to foil bad choices such as those on the TAP, which we have talked about so many times for four years now, since the first legislative measures relating to this useless and harmful work have appeared in 2013. We would like to make the appeal of Dr Serravezza's family members: to put aside all political and personal begs, the conflicts that the major party represented in Parliament today seems to have, at its current summit, with the President of the Puglia Region; to set aside every political issue, without any will to exploit anything. Mr President, I would like to appeal to you, that you should be the bearer of the petition to the Government, which, in the morning, will kindly, but with extreme determination, someone should listen to a delegation of these mayors of all political colors, because it is not just one thing of the 5 Star Movement, as is well understood. The government listens to the citizens and to a piece of territory that has never moved in such a determined and univocal way. With this hope and renewing the determination with which we claim that this work is not to be done in Melendugno, in the province of Lecce, nor anywhere, I ask you to listen to those who ask for listening in a peaceful way and are even putting at risk their health in the most gandhian, genuine and sincere way possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u49	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I rise to say to the Government: good, you are succeeding! You may feel satisfied. The decline of schools in the province of Caserta has begun. Today I have been contacted by several students of the Technical Institute "Guonarroti" in Caserta who, following today's article on "Il Mattino" in Caserta, were concerned that their school was about to close and the consequent loss of the school year. Alarmed by this situation and for the proper checks, I contacted the school, just two hours ago, and I spoke with the manager and, while I was on the phone with her, he told me that at that time the carabinieri were arranging the seizure of the school because it lacked safety certifications, so with regard to seismic risk and fire regulations. I have been speaking in this House for months now to denounce the serious situation of schools in the province of Caserta. The institutions are all at closed risk because they are of relevance to the Province of Caserta, which however declared the financial failure in December 2015. The failure has caused the impossibility to provide all those functions that still belong to it, such as the maintenance of roads, museums, the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of schools. Since April it is also impossible to pay salaries to its employees. Situation caused by the fake and unholy Delrio Provinces Act. Situation caused by the fact that the annual contribution that the Province of Caserta gives to the State is one of the highest in Italy, despite being one of the Provinces with the highest percentage of unemployment: yes, because also the industrial desertification of Caserta is your fault. You remember the ex-Indesit-Whirpool workers and all the others, don't you? I have made countless speeches here in this House to ask the attention of the Government; I have filed more than one question; I have tabled amendments (always rejected); we have tried to involve the Campania Region; as a 5 Star Movement we have joined the protests of students, workers and school leaders. Nothing, you didn't do anything! In fact, you have done one thing: you have deluded them, through your local political representatives, that you would have saved the Province of Caserta thanks to the so-called maneuverina, and instead you have allocated only 110 million, but for all the Italian Provinces: they are ridiculous resources, that will solve nothing. The Buonarroti Institute closes today and is a disgrace for all of Italy. But this is only the first of the houses forced to close, because they will follow the others. They are headed by the Province of Caserta 93 established, equal to 83,000 students and now, one by one, they will all close. With the current school year, how will it be done? What will happen to these students? What will happen at the opening of the school year, given that most schools are in fact illegal and not normal? Be assured, we will not allow it: if the Government does not intervene to avert this shame and drama, we will pursue any way to denounce you and to ensure that those responsible pay for the damage caused to the citizens of Caserta, to the parents and above all to our students. Shame on you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u52	PHASE (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the Day of Remembrance dedicated to the victims of internal and international terrorism and the massacres of this matrix was celebrated. We have heard, in the Senate Chamber, the testimony of young people and family members of the victims of terrorism. As President Grasso pointed out in his prayer this morning, recalling the indescribable sacrifice of the victims of terrorism: May 9 is a solemn opportunity to gather all around the principles of our Republic, those principles that were threatened by the fury of terrorism. And again: It is a useful day to understand the meaning of our being together and to remember those who have lost their lives in dark years, marked by violence, fear and shameful subversive plots; it is a time when we renew our adherence to constitutional values that we preserved from the fury of those who wanted to destroy the rule of law and annihilate our democracy. This - I repeat - is the words of President Grasso. Names of heroes have been given in this House, fallen because of what they believed in, because of their values or because they simply did their work. So the terrible story of the kidnapping and killing of Aldo Moro, murdered by the BR and found in the trunk of a car in Via Caetani, was remembered. In his closing speech, President Grasso recalled - and I would like to emphasize it too - the heroes of Peteano, that is, of the massacre that saw the death of the brigadiere Antonio Ferraro, the carabiniere chosen Donato Poveromo and the carabiniere Franco Dongiovanni, for whom this year will be celebrated the forty-fifth anniversary from their disappearance. I remember that day: it was the night of May 31, 1972. A white 500 near the railway, on the road from Savogna to Sagrado (Gorizia), along the river Isonzo, proved to be a trap for the three innocent policemen, who had gone there following an anonymous signal to the emergency. They were killed and two other soldiers were seriously injured. It is a massacre that saw other innocent victims accused and that had other envoys in place of the red tracker initially traveled. The six people in Gorizia initially arrested after nine months in prison and three trials were completely exonerated. And the thread of memory is contained in the only existing documentary, titled "By unknown hand: Peteano, a forgotten massacre of the young Gorizia director Cristian Natoli, who was presented in Venice in preview at the Casa del cinema of Palazzo Mocenigo; a film with a detailed plot, attentive to the human side of the story. In addition to these innocents, I would also like to mention the wonderful lawyers Nereo Battello, recently deceased senator, Maniacco and Bernot, who defended these innocent victims strenuously, with enormous courage, against everything and all. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-818.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 10 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.31 a.m.
