ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved. [[Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Candiani, you should have made your request in time. The Minutes are now approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u6	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, this morning's sitting ended with an act of the majority which we regard as somewhat cowardly. After the quorum was not present twice at the beginning of the sitting and after the start of the debate on the motions for Down's syndrome, we asked to be able to move forward in the discussion of the subject during the afternoon sitting. On this proposal - alas - the Democratic Party (i.e. the majority) called for the verification of the quorum and failed. We believe that this is a vile act. We now ask you, Madam President, to be able to resume the examination of the motions, even at the end of the afternoon sitting, because so many people have listened to us and watched the debate and are now waiting for a concrete act. In addition, Madam President, we are officially calling for the resignation of Mr Poletti, in the light of the statements he made yesterday and which he confirmed today. According to him, young Italians should go to football instead of doing their resumes. The problem is that Minister Poletti is the same Minister who had humiliated young Italians who leave the country saying that some people are better off not having them. This somewhat chatty minister seems to want to go home; he seems to want to put himself in trouble and to put you in trouble by attacking young people and Italian citizens who - we remind Mr Poletti - are the ones who pay his salary; they are our employers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] At a time when we have 40% youth unemployment, also thanks to you and your unholy policies, you cannot say that, instead of making a resume, you have to go and play football. I would like to see Minister Poletti play soccer and watch him run gracefully with the cleats in a soccer field instead of inviting the Italian boys to go and play! President, that is why we are giving Minister Poletti the little ball I have in my hand to go play football. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the words: "Poletti, apologies" and "Poletti," resign.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u7	I call on the assistants to take action to remove the cartels. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). President, Mr Poletti needs that balloon so that he is not an inflated balloon in front of Italian citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, there are regulatory instruments to run your request. As for the very serious issue that you put before the conclusion of the discussion of motions on people with Down syndrome, you will decide... [[Brusio.]] Senator Centinario, I hope you listen to the presidency on something serious and don't laugh. I ask the assistants to subtract the ball because this House is not the place to play soccer. I think you put the serious question of voting. I believe that the Conference of Leaders will have to decide to schedule as soon as possible and put on our agenda the conclusion of the debate on this morning's motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u10	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, a few days ago Judge Mario Almerighi, a judge forgotten by newspapers, television and the public, but also by the institutions, passed away. Judge Almerighi is the one who discovered the oil scandal. He is the one who already twenty years before Clean Hands claimed that there were corrupt politicians in Parliament. He is the one who has dismantled a system and has been set aside by the institutions, perhaps because it is too uncomfortable. He is the one who, at the death of Roberto Calvi, declared that it was not a suicide but a murder and that there were the Church, the Institute for the Works of Religion (IOR), but also in that case was forgotten. He is the one who has made his life a path of justice, honesty and morality. He has been relegated to the tribunal of Civitavecchia to conclude his career, but what he leaves us and what he has done in recent years is the story of the events and scandals of this Italy. And he did it perhaps in the most beautiful way: also through theatrical performances in which he managed to involve the boys. I see how much you care. And that's why good judges are often forgotten. He spoke of mafia infiltrations into the state and, after forty years, we still have mafia politicians; and they often sit in these classrooms and those who covered them then continue to cover them today, still sitting in these classrooms. I therefore ask for a minute of silence as a form of respect for those who have done, for those who have tried to remove the mob from the state, for those who have fought and felt isolated. And even today, this House absolutely does not show that good judges still have an illustrious career. I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence as a form of respect. "I respect you," a word that is absent in this House from the rumor that you listen to. Because I have heard in this House commemorating people who should not even shine their shoes on a judge. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u11	Senator Bottici, stick to the commemoration of Judge Almerighi without mudding the memory of others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u12	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]] BOTTICS (M5S). I am sticking by, Madam President, and I am also asking this House. Respect, in fact, is in my opinion the first thing that this House should teach, because everything that is done in this House then has a reflection on those who are outside and also on students. I met Judge Almerighi at a theatrical performance in which he told a story, that is the murder of his friend Ciaccio Montalto, also a forgotten subject. I really hope that these characters will be remembered by this Italy and I certainly hope that those who covered the mafia then and allowed the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra to enter the State will never be remembered in these classrooms, despite our colleagues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u15	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I had known Mario Almerighi for 47 years. He never wanted to be remembered as an ideal and political fighter: he was a magistrate, a magistrate who believed in the power of the law, in the power of legality. We entered the judiciary together and after five years we were elected to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Council of Vittorio Bachelet. We have suffered all the time of terrorism in our country. And it was certainly not the political positions that helped us to reason and fight! [[Applause from Senators Bernini and Sacconi.]] Yesterday, at his funeral, he was reminded that, when he left Civitavecchia, not because of the silence of this Assembly but because of bureaucratic management of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, he said: I have given my life for legality and justice. Maybe this is my fault. This is the law. This is man's logic. He was born in Sardinia and I had a lot of fun when I listened to a sentence in Sardinian language without consonants - that my colleague Cucca, despite being Sardinian, cannot pronounce - that he always said. He was a multifaceted man who had so many interests in life. In addition to being a magistrate, he wrote books and in recent times he had also dedicated himself to creating theatrical plays and performing screenwriter activities, so much so that he had the satisfaction of seeing his works programmed in various theaters. This is the logic of commemoration. It is not a political clash, but it is the logic of commemorating a man who served the State, serving the law, and the law is above all of us. I think this is Mario Almerighi's best memory. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u18	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, our Group too wishes to pay tribute to Mario Almerighi's history, commitment and human and professional qualities. Strict judge, passionate, educated and committed, Almerighi began his activity in Genoa, where, together with his colleagues Carlo Brusco and Adriano Sansa, he measured himself with the famous scandal of the oil companies: an intense, rigorous, demanding and risky work. Almerighi himself described it this way: We dealt with the multinationals of Italian and foreign oil and the subordination of politics and their power. Sandro Pertini understood it well and welcomed him right here to the Senate; he spoke to Almerighi and his colleagues, among other things under unusual circumstances, and encouraged them to move forward. Even in Rome his activity was not easy: just think of his work on the banker Roberto Calvi, but I would also like to remember his activity on the death of the agent of the special department of the NOCS, Samuele Donatoni, who was killed during the firefight between the Forces of the Order and the kidnappers of Giuseppe Soffiantini, killed precisely by the kidnappers. Also famous was his confrontation with Andreotti: they were in court and he had the right recognition. He was also a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, elected in 1976, and was the founder of the Justice Movement with Giovanni Falcone. Among his many colleagues who fell during his activity, also engaged in the fight against mafias and terrorism, he wanted to remember in a particular way, with a theatrical text, Giangiacomo Ciaccio Montalto, killed on October 25, 1983 in Valderice, in the Province of Trapani. A man educated and brilliant, so much to devote himself to writing books, novels and, indeed, theatrical texts of success. At the end of his career there was no proper recognition of the state. On the part of the tribunal of Civitavecchia, where he was president, and on the part of the Supreme Council of the judiciary he received only bitterness. It often happens to what we can call "servants of the State." Along his professional journey, successes and recognitions have not been lacking, but also problems and difficulties. We must always remember that the servants of the State do not give up. It is not easy to serve the Italian State; obstacles are often high and risks high. Mario Almerighi never stopped in the face of obstacles and was never intimidated by the risks he faced with his judicial activities. The State must be served, no matter what it costs, even when it is not convenient: this is what Almerighi did and so we pay tribute to him. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u19	The Presidency supports the memory and condolences of the disappearance of a magistrate who has spent his life serving the State and legality and asks the House to share this condolence with one minute of silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u20	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2705. I would remind you that the general debate ended in the afternoon sitting on 23 March. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to warn you that the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, declares that amendment 19.47 (text 3), approved by the Commissions and its sub-amendment, concerning the assets of the Association of the Italian Red Cross, as alien to the object of the decree-law. The Presidency also notes that, in the course of its examination, amendments which could have been considered relevant to the matter under consideration have not been accepted, following an extremely rigorous assessment. I call the rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u21	Madam President, a detailed debate on this subject took place in this House, and already in the introductory report I pointed out that the matter was complex; on the other hand, it had been quite difficult to deal with it already in the Commission's work. Despite this, I am going to make a reply which will all in all be quite brief, in order to point out some aspects which emerged during the debate, which were also dealt with in the course of the Commission's work, but which had obviously not been fully transposed. I repeat that the debate that has taken place in this House has been very serious and has, in fact, confirmed the complexity of the measure. But I must also point out that some criticisms of the measure under consideration have seemed to me unmotivated and without explicit and direct reasons for criticizing some of the issues discussed, and in some ways they have also been apodictic and meaningless. Of course, the debate has made it clear that the political forces represented in this House have a different view of immigration. There are, on the one hand, those who support the need for the indiscriminate rejection of immigrants, a phenomenon seen as a serious damage to our country and its economic system; on the other hand, there are those who believe that it is necessary to welcome immigrants who are in the conditions of achieving protection in our country because of the subjective and objective conditions, with reference to the economic and political situation in the countries of origin. In this respect, I have to say that some of those who have spoken in this House - I think it was Senator Cociancich - have given us absolutely important and, I believe, very worthy of attention, also to understand what the real meaning of the phenomenon of immigration is. If I am not mistaken, Senator Cocianchich has indicated that even the phenomenon of immigration brings a surplus value even in economic terms to our country. The same Senator Cocianchich reminded us that in the balance between emigration and immigration are more migrants, those who go away, compared to those who enter our country and, above all, the balance in economic terms depends on the side of immigrants. Therefore, with the regulation that we are trying to give to the phenomenon by this measure of fact we also take possession of that surplus value which Mr Cocianchich told us in this House, which could perhaps lead us to change the overall view of the phenomenon itself. The reception of immigrants must be based on both humanitarian and economic motivations. What has emerged - and many of my fellow Members have misrepresented - is that the ratio of the measure and the objectives that are intended to be achieved by its implementation are different from those that have often been proposed in the course of the debate. Many have wanted to point out that the decree-law under consideration does not solve the problem of immigration in a definitive way. Well, it seems to me that these arguments are instrumental in a political criticism that disregards the substance of the measure and is based rather on the usual opposition that leads us to assume positions of fact absolutely unrelated to the merit of the measures we face. I therefore believe it is necessary to reiterate that this measure intends to adopt operational instruments aimed at simplifying procedures, speeding up state interventions, thus ensuring that the whole system responsible for dealing with and resolving the problems that arise from time to time as a result of the phenomenon of immigration which, as has been reiterated by all those who have intervened in the course of the debate, has actually taken on extraordinary dimensions, with unexpected and unpredictable consequences, and is destined to grow further exponentially in the immediate future. In this sense, therefore, it is undeniable that the provision that we are examining contains many positive aspects; moreover, many of the speakers have also recognized the goodness of the decree-law, although they are aware that it is certainly not perfect. It is difficult to get out of the parliamentary classrooms a perfect measure, because we know that we respond to logics of opposition, confrontation, dialogue and often we must also make a synthesis. It will certainly not be a perfect measure, but it certainly finally grasps the ratio of regulating the phenomena we have talked about. On the other hand, this has also been recognised by many of the opposition's colleagues, and for all of us I recall the intervention of Senator Malan, who called for a rapid adoption of the measure itself. On the other hand, it does not seem right to say, as some have done, that, in the course of the work in the Commission, which certainly took place very quickly and - if I may say so - sometimes even encouraged, there has been no possibility of dialogue with the Government. This statement is dictated by the fact that the Commission has decided to follow a line and has made different choices compared to the opinion of some who said that there was no possibility of dialogue. Moreover, the confirmation of this figure comes from the amendments adopted, which have sometimes been proposed by the opposition members of the 1st and 2nd Commission. This is a clear sign that many of the issues addressed have been resolved with the approval of the proposals received by the opposition. I am referring, for example, to the choice of jurisdiction to decide on appeals against the measures taken by the territorial committees. This is an issue which I have already discussed in general debate, which has come back overpoweringly in the debate in the Commission and during the debate in this House. The Commission has opted to entrust the specialised sections of the courts with the choice of appeals against decisions of the territorial committees. Some would have liked the court of appeal to have jurisdiction. I think it is appropriate to reiterate once again that the choice made responds to an action taken on the situation at the appeals courts in Italy, which currently have an important shortage of staff, are overburdened by an imposing number of pending files, present a shortage of administrative staff as well as judges and, therefore, the consequence is that, if we had made a different choice, we would certainly have paralysed the activities of the appeals courts and the new legislation would certainly not have found an easy application. The same can be said with regard to the objection, made by several parties, as regards the possibility of appealing in cassation against the measures of the specialised sections of the courts, while recalling that an amendment has been adopted which, in some way, has a deflated function compared to the free proposition - I have this term - of appeals in cassation. With this amendment it is expected that the proxy should be issued after knowledge of the outcome of the court decision and the defender must certify it, through the authentic signature and the certification of the date. In this way, of course, given the situation that will be created, we will achieve the defensive aim for which the amendment was proposed and approved. In short, we can therefore say that the measure under consideration, as mentioned above, is not perfect, but certainly addresses the issues of an emergency that has now taken on significant dimensions in a serious and shared way, with the intention of being able to govern those phenomena, paying particular attention to the protection, including judicial, of immigrants and offering effectiveness and, above all, timeliness - I am mutualizing the words used by Senator Pagliari - both as regards protection, in compliance with the constitutional dictation, and as regards repatriation. Mr President, I should like to make two comments. The Commissions meeting, in entrusting the mandate to the rapporteurs, had also authorised the coordination of the text and indeed presented issues on which coordination was necessary, but which obviously does not degrade the content of the text itself. I would remind you that this is more about drafting rather than coordination. For all of them, I would like to recall that made in Article 6 (1) (a) (3) (c), because in the Commission it was stated that the notification of acts and measures could have been done by means of certified e-mail. Consequently, I repeat, this is a drafting operation. Since we forgot, with that amendment, to add the word "in consequence," it becomes necessary to expunge from the number 3-e of the same Article 6, any reference to the certified e-mail, even if the request for notification by means of JEP had been forwarded directly by the person concerned. I repeat, therefore, that drafting operations have been carried out, but they do not in any way affect the text which has come out of the Commission and which has been entrusted to the House. I have also taken note of the decisions taken by the Presidency on a part of the draft law which had been very much opposed, of which we are, of course, aware. To conclude, I would like to highlight something that emerged during the Commission's work, including the presentation of numerous amendments by all political forces, and which has been put forward again in this House. Almost all those who spoke during the general debate have spoken about this, so I think it is necessary to take it up again, given that the amendments were not considered admissible because they were substantive rules and so it was decided not to take them into account. The subject, however, exists and I believe it is time for the Government to take note of an instance that has come from all political parties in this House. I am referring to the crime of illegal immigration of which the abolition or decriminalisation has been sought in a cross-cutting and almost unanimous manner. As I said, a number of amendments have been tabled, but due to their substantial nature they have not been taken into account since they are inconsistent with the content of the decree-law under consideration. It is clear that the bipartisan need for such a repeal exists, so I think it is necessary to proceed quickly, in order to allow a considerable saving of economic resources, which could be further addressed to the issues dealt with by this decree-law, and above all a saving of labour and human resources, decongesting very much the courts in which, as we know, there accumulates an impressive number of these criminal proceedings whose outcome, most of the time, is a substantially useless sentence, either because the sanctions are not recoverable, or because, at the end of the procedure, the people subjected to criminal proceedings for the crime of illegal immigration have become in the meantime irretrievable. Regulatory action in this respect is now improcrastinable. A delegation law has been passed, now a long time ago: I think it is time to implement that delegation by the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u22	On 24 March 2017, the President of the Senate appointed the members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender violence, as referred to in the Senate Resolution of 18 January 2017. The list will be published in an annex to today's report. Of course, the Presidency hopes that useful work will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u23	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Secondary School of First Degree in Naples, Francesco D'Ovidio-Edoardo Nicolardi, who are attending our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u24	I call the rapporteur, Senator Mancuso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u25	Madam President, I agree with Mr Cucca in his assessment of one aspect of the general debate that I have listened to and followed very carefully, and that is to say that, in the course of the debate, it seemed to me that many speeches, especially those made by the members of the Commission, albeit from different points of view, with different intentions and different political parts, were more timely, clearly because they came from those who participated in the construction of the measure in the course of the Commission's work, who sometimes had moments of excitement. Other speeches were, on the other hand, of an absolutely general nature, as if colleagues wanted to take inspiration from the title of the draft law under consideration to talk in general about such a serious, important and current subject, such as immigration, but, as Senator Cucca said, in part disconnected and little related to the true content of the text. On several occasions, during the general discussion, the constitutional coherence of certain rules concerning, in particular, the possibility for the applicant for international protection to lodge a complaint against the decisions of the court was contested, but the need to speed up the legal process meant that the recognition of international protection was treated, at all levels, as a matter of urgency. This choice is justified on the basis of statistical data showing a duration of the procedure in this field not yet in line with European standards and not compatible with the reasons for urgency underlying the matter. Therefore, as has been pointed out by several parties, some alleged mismatches with constitutional principles have been made wider and, therefore, more compatible with these principles, the possibility of the applicant to request the contradictory, i.e. the dialectical intervention of the parties in the course of the judgment, precisely in order to protect the subjective law, where the court recognizes its admissibility. Therefore, the extension of the possibilities of access to the hearing certainly improves the constitutional coherence of the decree-law, as it allows to define full cognition and respected the right of defence. I believe that on this point there has been a good balance - as the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of the Legnini judiciary had requested at the hearing - between the need for judicial protection of the rights of those who require humanitarian protection, on the one hand, and the need for the good performance of the judicial offices, on the other. We therefore find the concerns of those who theorize that the exclusion of the reclaimability of the decree that defines the first degree may cause distonia with the discipline provided for in Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, since, thanks to the work in the Commission, the use of collegial form is peacefully guaranteed, if it is acknowledged that it is necessary. This decree-law also clarified the question of the status of stateless person, on which I heard some speeches, entrusting the competence for this matter to the court seat of the section; the scope of application of this new article was consequently extended also to the dispute concerning the determination of the state of Italian citizenship. We firmly reject the concerns of those who, during the general debate in this House, have argued that the human rights of asylum seekers can be called into question. From this point of view, I must say that the protection of human beings has always been absolutely safeguarded: I recall, for example, that persons whose vulnerable conditions are incompatible with the detention itself cannot be detained; likewise, when the applicant for international protection is requested, it is possible to guarantee the defence of the applicant with the presence of the defender. It seems to me that there has been a great deal of clarity in the Commission regarding the confidentiality of video recording and the audiovisual link, while preserving the confidentiality of these images. The participation of applicants for international protection in social activities in the municipalities where they were hosted is also a sign of recognition of the dignity of the person. From this point of view, the planned recruitment to the Ministry of Justice of officials with professional, legal, pedagogical, social service, cultural mediator skills is aimed at supporting educational interventions, job integration and training programmes to improve and optimize integration processes where the requirements are met. The urgent provisions for the security and operation of the diplomatic and consular network provide for a strengthening of the quota present in these offices, always in order to strengthen the networks and agreements with these Countries precisely in order to try to curb the migratory phenomena from those Countries and to support the on-site management of projects of aid and development promoted by funds, banks, private and international bodies, and to ensure, through the transfer of contingents of forces of the Arm of the Carabinieri in these Countries in order to guarantee the security of these border guards. I have to say that the measure under discussion, as it contains rules to protect the rights of the human person as a person seeking protection because he is entitled, also includes measures to preserve the national territory from the presence of persons who do not have that right. It is therefore expected to be more rigorous in refusing entry, abbreviated in the judgments against the decree of expulsion for reasons of national security and the prevention of terrorism, identification of irregular foreigners or rescue operations at sea and normative recall to the risk of escape in case of repeated refusal to undergo the identification operations with consequent forced expulsion. Measures are also envisaged to combat illegal immigration through the strengthening of IT tools and the exchange of information between various centres responsible, the establishment of detention centres for return where the persons waiting for return are hosted in full respect of the dignity of the person. Even if we assume that the measure under consideration will have difficulties in application, we are sure that, after a natural period of break-in in which these difficulties will be noticed, once in a system, it will be able to give the right answers in terms of speed to judicial appeals, efficiency in the administration of justice also thanks to the establishment of specialised sections, judges employed under continuous training and specialized personnel, improvement of logistics and organization of the system of reception, identification, rejections, relocation and integration. I should like to conclude, Madam President, by repeating my thanks for all those who have contributed and participated in the definition of this measure, considering that they can express their appreciation for the effort made, which has enabled us to find suitable solutions in order to make the procedures for the recognition of international protection more efficient, at various stages, to those entitled to it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u26	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2705, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 13 of 17 February 2017, which incorporates the amending proposals approved by the Commissions, with the exception of those deemed impossible by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u28	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I immediately transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I say that the President immediately convened the Conference of Presidents of the Groups to organise the debate. The sitting is suspended and will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 5.20 p.m. and resumed at 5.49 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u29	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent provisions for speeding up international protection proceedings, as well as for the fight against illegal immigration. Two hours and twenty-five minutes were allocated to the debate on trust, which will take place at this sitting, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will take place in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow and will then follow the call, orientally around 11.30 a.m. She calls you for the election of the three secretary senators, originally scheduled for tomorrow morning, will take place at the opening of the afternoon session of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u30	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u31	Mr President, we have discussed many hours in the Commission; hours that could perhaps have been used even better because we are faced with an important measure. It was a great opportunity for this Government and its majority and the opportunity for the whole country to face a problem for a long time underestimated: it seemed that only the North League spoke about it; it seemed only a manifesto, a slogan of the North League. On the other hand, it has been understood that immigration is a problem. Instead of real solutions, however, this measure limits the problem to procedural issues: procedures before the courts, the procedures of the territorial committees. Gentlemen, perhaps we have talked a lot, we are here to discuss whether we should decide on the board, or whether the decision should be made in collegial rather than monocratic composition, when we are faced with a huge problem. (17.52) (Follows STEFANI). The constitutional legitimacy of the decree-law was also discussed. A new system has been tried, also making certain forcings at the ordinamental level. A certain system has been used because the great concern is the length of judicial proceedings that hang around the appeals against the measures adopted by the territorial commissions. But it has been ignored that it is the same territorial committees that are already overburdened with immense work. Just think of the number of asylum applications that are submitted each year. Suffice it to say that in 2016 requests amounted to 181,000. However, nothing has been said about the timing of the examination in committee, so there is no knowledge of whether the time is one month or one year. An attempt has been made to introduce a mechanism to remove the appeal and then to refer everything back to a court, first and second-to-last, with the specialised sections. Luckily, the Commissions together accepted the amendments, also proposed by our Group, aimed at increasing the number of sections compared to those provided for in the original measure. A classic example is that of the court of Venice: the original provision provided that this specialized section should deal with all appeals against the measures adopted by the commissions in Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Trentino-Alto Adige, resulting in a kind of paralysis of the activity of the court and, certainly, of the specialized section. Excuse me, Madam President... Senator Stefani, if you cannot continue because of the cough, you can stop your surgery and resume it later. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u32	Madam President, I would like to say at once that this measure has improved since the work of the Commission. It must be acknowledged, because it makes no sense to go against the wall every time and refuse to recognize the progress that has been made. We have come to a hypothesis that it is no longer the monocratic judge who is competent in the only existing judgment for those seeking international protection and that some extra guarantees have been provided for the asylum seeker during the process. There remains the structure and twisting of the measure and, in particular, the distortion of having abolished a degree of judgment and of having done so only in this case. There is still a habit of tearing up reforms, which generally turn out to be bad reforms. Above all, the abuse done towards Parliament by the Government - by the Government Gentiloni Silveri as well as by the Renzi Government - because the imposition of trust is an act of useless violence. In the Commission work had been done and the intransigence which had been opposed, at a certain stage, by the rapporteurs had been overcome with the work and collaboration of all the oppositions, those of the left and those of the right. This is what Parliament can and must do: talk, debate, try to change and improve measures, even when we generally disagree. I can testify that all oppositions in the Commission have done so, and at some point the majority have realised this. Why, then, has the imposition of trust been chosen? Because it remains the fundamental sin of this legislature, for how it has developed, namely the refusal to deal with Parliament, with the Commissions and with the Assembly, remaining the decision of the Government - indeed, of the Governments, because at this point there are two - to base itself on majorities that have been experienced and negotiated elsewhere and on negotiations that take place outside these Aules, to impose them then in Parliament, with measures often armored, although I must say that this is not the case with the measure in question, because at least on the issues of justice Minister Orlando has shown that he wants to discuss them. I want to say very clearly that this kind of injury of parliamentary life is part of what today a political commentator called Renzi's soft populism, distinguishing it from the attitude of a French gentleman, who is called Macron, who has positions similar to Renzi from the political point of view, but who is much more careful not to take this kind of drift. On the other hand, we have a majority that continues to act as if it were constantly in the electoral campaign and therefore to have to take measures that are imposed and structured to defend the indissoluble unity of the majority and to cover the many differences that are there. I believe that the one that brought the Gentiloni Government Silveri calling for confidence is the most serious disease that prevents us, for example, from discussing electoral reform. I know that it is convenient to say that it is Parliament that does not agree on electoral reform and that Parliament will no longer reform because the referendum rejected the attempt to do so with extreme force. It's not like that! Parliament does not discuss the electoral law because the majority seizes it, because the majority has no idea what electoral law agrees with it, also because it would probably think of two different laws, and it continues to postpone the parliamentary debate on it. This is the reality of the facts. Now, the appeal I can make as a person who has been following politics for so many years and who, like so many Italians, is sorry for this drift, is to stop this type of blackmailing Parliament because it produces nothing. It is true that the Silveri Gentiloni Government has used at least more diplomatic tones, and in fact we have not repeated in this House the bagars that we used to in recent times of the Renzi Government but this, in itself, cannot be enough. I believe that what we are giving today with confidence is a bad political signal, and I hope, even if I do not believe it, that this is one of the last confidences that the Gentiloni Government Silveri asks. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]] [[Senator Airola points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u33	Senator Stefani, are you up for this?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u34	Yes, Madam President, thank you. AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, mark me to speak later on the order of business! STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have little voice, but I will take the floor again. It has so much elcubrated in the Commission on how to structure a new trial to try to avoid a degree of judgment, to try to avoid an appeal judgment, to try to speed up all these proceedings in their handling. To this end, the order may have been forced, trying to insert this procedure into the board room and to completely eliminate the appeal process in order to go directly to the Cassation. However, we have raised some concerns about certain aspects of this procedure. For example, there has been a great deal of talk about the possibility of requesting the hearing and the possibility of having the applicant intervene personally. In the end, however, if we consider how the rule has been structured, even in an amending phase, today, whenever a reasoned request for an audience can be made and the applicant must be heard, this hearing can be fixed when the videoconference is not available in the territorial committees. At the same time, an amendment was adopted whereby the applicant may refuse to take up the film and, therefore, every time the audiovisual film is not filmed, the hearing will automatically be held. How, then, does this rule go along with the timetable for the closure of the proceedings at first instance, i.e. four months? Four months for the first degree is a deadline that is practically impossible to meet. On the other hand, nothing is said about the sanctions and the consequences if the measure is issued after four months. If the order is issued late, does it mean that it is a violation of the law and therefore, whenever it happens, could it be brought before the Court of Cassation? In addition, we are talking about other issues relating to timing. Also with regard to the six months for the appeal in Cassation, since we are talking about the problem of the cargo pending also at the Court of Cassation, eliminating the filter of the appeal process, all the measures will be challenged before the Cassation, thus creating a paralysis of the Court, as, among other things, has already been observed by the National Association of Judges. The problem is that a number of proposals which we had put forward in the Commission have been rejected and which were entirely reasonable and absolutely necessary. We had asked for an increase in the fund for expulsions, rejections and removals. We had asked to increase the capacity of the new centres which, in the end, are certainly not able to accommodate all the applicants. We also asked that we get to the point of eliminating humanitarian protection, which is not a universally recognised institution, which is not imposed on us by Europe: it is our invention and it continually opens up new appeals. Our agendas have also been rejected, which we think should be the guiding principle of this measure. We asked for a commitment from the Government to ensure the capacity of the centers, to retain in those structures citizens with irregular entry or stay and increase the period of detention itself: agenda rejected. We asked the government to identify citizens with irregular entry and stay and this was also rejected. We do not want to identify all citizens; we do not want to guarantee the capacity of the centres and to have the possibility of keeping under control all immigrants entering our territory. But they are the agendas that have been accepted that make us understand the true nature of the measure, where we want to go and how we tackle the problem of immigration. We see approved agendas in which, for example, it is foreseen that, during first-aid operations, in order to ascertain situations of need, food supplies, accommodation, clothing for all these immigrants, and that the entire identification procedure is blocked and that we cannot proceed to the interview whenever there is medical treatment, let us call them urgent: until the outcome of the so-called morbid event, neither identification nor interview can be done. We see accepted other agendas in which it is even expected to review all the legislation of the Bossi-Fini law , with the aim of an orderly programme of regularization and integration of migrants. We are talking about reducing the use of removal if not in extreme cases, as well as the opening of regular channels of entry, both for work (you can also understand), both for job search, and for access to the right of asylum. We want to create channels on which Italy is a centre of total acceptance of a phenomenon that, instead of being tackled in this way, should be addressed at the origin, as we have suggested for some time. There are no clear deadlines in the measure, for example in the handling phase within the committees. However, between the commission's activities and the various appeals, two years will pass before you arrive in cassation. There are situations that remain completely outside, absolutely not regulated by this measure and, indeed, totally disregarded. We understand what the agendas were and what is the hidden objective of the treatment of the phenomenon of immigration: that is, let us do it. But if we analyze the clear and certain data, we see that the landings, which - let us remember - in 2013 were 42,925, arrived, in 2016, to 181,436, excluding the land routes. We are talking only of landings, therefore of entrances by sea; of all these entrances of 2016, the asylum applications were 68 percent, 123,000; there are 60,000 missing people, who have entered and who have not even made the request for asylum. These are already scattered and not controlled in our territory. If, then, we look at the same number of irrecoverables, we see that in 2016 there were more than 3,200; moreover, of the 123,000 asylum applications submitted, little more than 36,000 were accepted, so only 40 percent. Gentlemen, out of 181,000 - and we are talking only about landings, those numbers that have been checked - there are only 36,000 asylum applications accepted; we are talking about 150,000 people, only in 2016, who have entered and of whom we do not know their first and last names, the objectives, where they live, what they do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is no possibility of doing any kind of action so that these are repatriated: they are here and can only wander in our country, feeding like a background of a civilization, which is no longer such, made of those who live in hardship, unfortunately perhaps of crime, on the margins of our society. If these are the figures, the measure under discussion does not solve the problem, but only in part to try to increase the process; however, this year those 181,000 immigrants last year will arrive at monstrous and dramatic figures. In addition, the phenomenon has not been dealt with from the outset with the necessary severity: it is enough to go and look at the statements of the Chief Prosecutor of Catania, Dr Zuccaro, at the Schengen Committee. We are only talking about a problem that concerns NGOs, that is, many ships flying the flag of Gibraltar, Germany and Holland, which materially arrive close to the Libyan coasts to help these migrants, but in reality transport them by violating international legislation and bring them directly to the channel of Sicily, declaring that they have recovered them there. The same chief prosecutor Zuccaro wonders why Aquarius, the ship of SOS Mediterranée, has a daily cost of 11,000 euros (I refer to the management cost only of the ship); moreover the non-governmental organization MOAS has spent 400,000 euros for the chartering and the use of two drones. I repeat: 400,000 euros. These, however, are all expenses relating to these ships without even considering the cost of the ships themselves. What are you doing? To whom does the advantage of these initiatives, of these spent money that the same chief prosecutor has considered, however, absolutely suspicious operations? Consider then that 30% of the rescues made in 2016 was carried out by NGOs and despite this - they are always the words of the chief prosecutor - the deaths have not diminished, indeed they have increased because also the number of migrants has grown. In 2016 nearly 5,000 deaths are reported, so they are operations that have no humanitarian purpose in this sense, because the dead are there. At this point, doubts arise as to which traffic may be subject to this kind of travel that is being made. For this reason, we in the Northern League Group have also raised the problem so that we can investigate in depth and possibly find ourselves responsible for the possible possibility of crime, which can range from aiding illegal immigration to trafficking in people, if not even to more serious hypotheses. There is no point in thinking that this individual measure will solve a huge problem. It would be like emptying an ocean with a teaspoon: let us use the teaspoon, but in our opinion the problem has not been addressed; indeed, we have also tried to forget that it is a problem and, with goodist attitudes of fake welcome, Italy has been burdened with a huge weight, which is not only economic, but also social, that Italy does not know and is not able to deal with. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u35	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo (Riva2-Luigi Pizzini) of Riva del Garda, in the province of Trento, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u36	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u37	Excuse me, I didn't understand exactly before. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u38	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask the Government a question that may seem trivial, but I hope it will answer me. Why do you also put your trust in this provision? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Airola, on the order of business, but this is a question... AIROLA (M5S). I think it's on the order of business. Do not tell me that you put your trust because Parliament does not agree, because you take responsibility for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u39	Madam President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, just to take up what Mr Airola said just now, we are at the 82nd vote of confidence requested by the Government in Parliament in the 17th legislature on legal measures; and we are today at the 43rd vote of confidence of the Senate on a draft law. So we can now speak of trust as a method by this Government. After going beyond the extreme paradox of putting trust in the rules of the game, that is, the electoral law, we had already gone beyond the limits of democratic principles. Then we found that confidence in the rules of democratic representation was incorrect in substance and method. Therefore, following many years after the passage that led to the adoption of the so-called fraud law, we noted that the merit of that electoral law, the so-called Italicum, was wrong, so much so that a decision of the Consulta declared constitutionally illegitimate the content of different norms. And we noted that the method was also wrong, because italicum only concerned the election system of the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, the referendum of December 4, 2016 soundly rejected the constitutional law that gave the Senate for dead, while it is still alive and well today. The scandal was shouted when the Berlusconi Government presented a request for confidence; but the appeal it made was certainly more moderate and necessary than what is now being done with it. Extensive for the government has therefore become the Senate, but also the House. Nor does it justify the fact that the Government accepts in the maxi amendment the amendments adopted in the committees of substance, because the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure, Madam Minister, provide for both the examination of the Commissions and that of the Assembly. Even in Western democracies, the use of such an instrument (the use of trust) is very much, but very limited, by the rules and in practice. I would therefore like to address the President of the Senate, who cannot exercise regulatory powers on this matter, but who certainly does. While it is true that it falls within the prerogatives of the Government to put the question of trust, it is equally certain that its excessive use degrades the role of the elected in the Senate and their fundamental function, which is the legislative one. The continuing humiliation of the senators' role ends up justifying the continuing populist attacks on this House, including by people who are part of it, and justifies the requests for a reduction in the number of senators, despite a referendum in this regard being explicit. It remains difficult to understand why there was confidence in a decree-law containing rules whose legal effects came to life when they were published in the Official Journal; another week could also be discussed and, after examining them and perhaps rejecting them through the vote of the House, the text would have been saved as the Government liked it. Then we do not understand the request or a request to this effect from a minister, such as Marco Minniti, considered and esteemed as an absolutely common sense person in a cross-cutting way (he has also shown this in recent events). The substance is that now, even in the Chamber of Deputies, the measure will be forced to a fast and armored process, without deepening those issues that would have required further investigation. I'll quote one. By now migrants entering our country are welcomed just over 12 miles (when not much less) from the Libyan coast, on boats equipped, even with drones, non-governmental organizations. These boats carry migrants on the ships of Italian and European forces placed as garrison of the borders, which can do nothing but accompany them in Italy. Thanks to this new strategy, the number of active migrants has increased compared to last year, when the numbers were already frightening. From 153,000 migrants in 2015 it has gone to 181,000 in 2016, counting only those landed and not even those arriving by land from other borders. On the contrary, relocations can be counted on in a few hundred out of the 160,000 planned at European level. We wonder if the decree-law in question addresses this issue, perhaps through a modification of article 12 of the so-called Bossi-Fini law, in order to allow to confiscate or confiscate those ships. The answer is no. Without further entering into the substance of the measure, it will not address the problem it intended to solve. In addition, once again, the work and contribution of the senators who were not prejudiced against rules that were intended to combat illegal immigration has been mortified, given the damage that an unbounded reception and the enormous costs associated with it are causing to our social context. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u40	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u41	Madam President, I believe that so much has already been said about the content of the decree-law and that all the concerns about the choice of confidence have already been expressed. (18.21) (Mussini followed). I therefore take advantage of this extension of the general debate, which becomes all the more general because we are also talking about a matter of trust, in order to resume an issue which I have already introduced and anticipated in the intervention made on the merits of the decree-law. I would like to focus on one principle. Today we are discussing needs obviously linked to an urgency, which is that of an undoubtedly unprecedented migratory wave, which puts us in a position to give up a whole series of guarantees and have to go to recover by scratching the bottom of the barrel and setting up specialised sections with invariance of public finance. We know that there are few territorial committees and that they are working at a very demanding pace and without adequate resources. Our courts are also without adequate resources and we find ourselves having to provide for the needs which are, on the contrary, enormous. I'd like to turn my attention to one aspect. All these migrants are from somewhere. The continent from which they come, namely Africa, is extremely rich. We should then ask ourselves the question of why we are not able to intervene on what is actually the origin of these problems. I am now making more explicit a reference that I have already made. We are talking, for example, about a country like Nigeria, which is like a sponge soaked in oil that should allow the Nigerian people to benefit from a wealth that belongs to it. Oil extraction in Nigeria includes ENI, among other foreign companies. We know - and it is quite recent news - that hundreds of millions of dollars have been traveled in the skies between Europe and Africa in connection with the OPL 245 field. What is certain is that the Nigerian population has not benefited at all from the hundreds of millions paid for this licence. And that's just an example. We know that many companies do business with Africa. I believe that a government must be consistent with a number of principles, which must be clearly stated in an international and economic policy, which is then linked to the chain of responsibilities. Today we look like mice wandering around inside a box and raging to look for change here and there, when companies that have a public participation, and on which the Italian Government and the Italian State should be able to give clear and precise indications, are doing business. And the only certainty - then we will see how judicial events will end - is that the Nigerian people will not benefit for anything from all this wealth. We therefore find ourselves paying a high price if we also think of the social hardship that all the speeches in this House have shown with different sensitivities. It is a discomfort that comes to us directly at home: it is the discomfort of those who must escape from their own country because they have no right to benefit from their wealth or those who find themselves having to flee from wars. We find ourselves dealing here with examples of profound social injustice and, first and foremost, economic, with which we should ask ourselves questions consistently: how much do we cooperate to certify these injustices and, instead, how much do we, as a country that promotes the values of civilization, really take action to put those peoples in the conditions of having an answer? On the so-called international peace missions - as I said here - I would like to ask ourselves about the relationship between the substantial investments we make for them and the result we obtain. It seems to me that we are sharing the costs of a great suffering, which is that not only of those we see arriving on our beaches, but also of those who cannot live in their own country. On one thing I believe we all agree: those who move away from their country to come to us in those conditions and undergo certain sufferings, which none of us willingly want to undergo, evidently escape from even more painful situations. I believe that a coherent policy should first of all take into account the real reasons for these painful migrations. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u42	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u43	Mr President, our Group will vote against confidence not only because of a clear political position, but also because, as we said in the general debate, we have a number of concerns. The couple of decrees that are traveling between the House and the Senate - I am referring to the one on urban security, which we will examine in the next few days in the Senate in the competent Commission and then in the Assembly, and at this time under consideration on immigration - have been announced as a solution to the problems of security, legality and the fight against immigration. That is not the case, because the decree-law is already in force and every day we have 2,000 landings. As a Forza Italia Group we have asked - we acknowledge the President of the Latorre Defence Commission to have shared this request - a survey of the role of non-governmental organizations that are transporting thousands of illegal immigrants to Italy and Europe per week, with a very ambiguous role, arriving in the Libyan waters, warning the organisations of the traffic of people and feeding their illegal activities. And we're gonna start this investigation on April 6th with Admiral Credendino's audition and then we're gonna continue. So this is a fundamental issue for us. The current decree-law does not resolve the issues of immigration and we complain that a number of amendments we had tabled were inadmissible and inadmissible. I have already mentioned in general discussion the speeches concerning the appeal court, which was to be the seat of the checks on asylum applications, and not the court. We had put forward proposals to lengthen the time of detention for the identification of illegal immigrants; the establishment of a public register of mosques and the national register of imams; the best and most stringent definition of the reasons for humanitarian protection, which are in Italy an escamotage to extend the entrances of illegal immigrants to a great extent; and a whole series of rules concerning the tightening of the penalty for the crime of false declarations and the non-release of the residence permit to the foreigner or the stateless person who, in the five years preceding the request, was sentenced for certain crimes. All this has been considered improbable. Then, from the list of what you have not admitted, it is clear that this is an evanescent decree-law of pure propaganda. Yes, it improves in some ways and makes procedures for examining asylum applications faster, but it does not address the fundamental issue. We have seen that there have been international summits these days in Italy. We have seen that there is a commitment to the collaboration of Germany, Austria and other countries to address the Libyan issue. However, we also see that the arrivals continue, that the costs are gigantic and that the means are being cut off from the police. Today is March 28, and also the third month of 2017 spends without the 80 euros being paid to the police. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] They will be paid with arrears: when? How? In the meantime, we're in the third month of the year. I would like to take advantage of the presence of Vice-Minister Morando: the answer is to mention the Court of Auditors and the registration. Of course, if one puts the Mother to be the Minister, it is obvious that the practices go as they go and are not done effectively and properly. You are going, but we are wary of doing so, to put the identification codes on the suits of policemen and policemen who carry out public order activities: as if they were the counterpart to be marked on sight. Beware, in the other decree-law, of making this choice, which could provoke more than justified protests of police personnel. Our no is therefore on the substance of the measure, and the no is, of course, on the trust. Among other things, President Calderoli and members of the Government, the amendments - by memory now I do not remember the exact number - seem to me to be about 400. It wasn't that big a deal. It was not those millions of amendments that were sometimes threatened in this House and that, rightly or wrongly, could lead us to ask ourselves how we could have done so. In my parliamentary experience, many times I have also discussed more amendments. There was a fear of going into the matter, perhaps, and of being weak in the legal defense of the role of the courts rather than of the court of appeal. Or it was feared that some more secretive proposals - to use a term in use today - could break out that the Forza Italia Group is moving forward. Therefore, on the immigration front the budget of the Silveri Gentiloni Government is bankrupt. In fact, we complain about the arrogant statements of Gentiloni Silveri, who several times said in essence: what can we do if this is the situation and people will come anyway? Minister Minniti proposed 1,600 places in the new detention centers. But only in the last few weeks have about 8,000 people landed, which are the quadruple, the quintuple, of the capacity of these centers that would be challenged. Then it is useless to blame the population of Cona, Conetta or other municipalities not only in the Northwest and Northeast, but also in the South, who protest at the saturation of the presence of illegals. If the pace of the landings is this, you don't go anywhere. That is why it is necessary to investigate - we hope quickly - the Senate's non-governmental organizations and speculators, who are not only the traffickers of people, but also others who do strange operations. We will also hear Admiral Credendino, who has perhaps given more interviews in recent weeks than some politicians. He is a military and, of course, he responds to the government's wrong direction. In fact, however, it has a mastodontic apparatus available to those who carry illegals and who know that it will arrive: either the non-governmental organization, the Frontex ship, the Coast Guard, or the ships of the various international realities, which celebrate Europe. We have heard many phrases and statements these days, but Europe can have a future if it limits its tasks and gives priority to issues such as the fight against terrorism, the defence of our external borders, the regulation of migration flows and the fight against illegal immigration. Then there is the fight against unfair competition, which is a different phenomenon, but parallel to illegal immigration to our country, because they secretly "immigrate" to our country products produced below cost in other countries of the world, with speculation and exploitation of labour. There is therefore a failure of the Italian policies of recent years and there is a failure of European policies. Renzi himself had said, perhaps in the account - Deputy Minister Morando is more experienced than these figures - that 4 billion had been spent in the estimate of 2016. We have asked Europe to repay such a sum. I believe that 4 billion could be spent - but also a smaller amount - in Africa to implement international plans that could help many more people and we could devote part of these billions to the support of the Italian police forces and the security of our cities. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] With regard to the issue of security, which we will discuss in the examination of the other decree-law, the measures received from the House are disappointing, because the famous DASPO is not supported by measures of criminal order in our cities devastated by phenomena of violence and bullying, and even in the last hours the chronicles report dramatic events. Then ours is a no more than motivated to those who boast a turning point only apparent, a turning point only in the headlines, because the landings continue even more. And it has been calculated that in 2017, with these same rhythms, 250,000 more people will come, which is almost the population of Molise. The Molise Region does not have many more and we cannot board an additional Region in Italy. The decree-law on our examination solves absolutely nothing. There are many other policies that we have made to the Government and we will return to make: bilateral agreements, faster expulsions and blockages of departures, which are urgent for such a welcoming Italy, but above all safer and more attentive to the needs of our citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u44	Mr President, the 5th Commission, as has already been established, has verified the text of the maxi amendment by submitting it to the two assessments that have now entered into the tradition of this House: in one respect, the adherence of the maxi amendment to the text approved by the Commission; on the other hand, of course, the adherence to the cover profiles. 18.36 (Followed by Mr Tonini). With regard to the first point, namely the adherence of the text of the maxi amendment to the text approved by the Commission, there are two differences: the first concerns the proposal contained in what was in the Commission's work Amendment 19.47 (text 3) concerning the Red Cross, on which the 5th Commission had expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution for the absence of a technical report in the Commission. However, when the technical report came to the end of the debate on the amendments to the House, the 5th Commission had given an opinion of nothing. Therefore, the amendment was fully entitled to be included in the maxi amendment from the point of view of the 5th Commission procedure. However, there has been an unpropos judgment by the Senate Presidency, which obviously goes beyond the previous procedure, and the text of the abovementioned amendment is correctly not included in the maxi mum amendment. The other element of divergence between the two texts concerns Article 13: in the maxi amendment, after paragraph 3, paragraph 3-a was accepted (the measures to ensure the speed of recruitment procedures of the administration of justice) which had also received an opinion contrary by the 5th Commission for the absence of a technical report and, therefore, from the point of view of our Rules of Procedure was subject to importance of improcability. In the meantime, however, the technical report accompanied by the maxi amendment deals with this point - hence the technical report has arrived - and conditions the opinion of the General Accountant of the State to a rewording of the same paragraph. These are the facts. From the point of view of the 5th Commission, I think that two aspects should be highlighted. The first is as follows: we note that the Government has chosen to include an amendment which I had received the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, and we sincerely wish that this did not constitute a precedent. It is true that we are in the framework of fair parliamentary play, and not in the framework of the Rules of Procedure in the strict sense. It is clear, however, that, if this fundamental point is raised, namely that the contrary opinion under Article 81 by the 5th Commission can be overcome by the Government in the maxi amendment, this affects one of the pillars of the parliamentary fair play procedure. It is also true that there is the technical report which proposes a rewording. From our point of view, while - on the one hand - we ask the Government not to consider a precedent to generalize the practice it has maintained in admitting this amendment, we ask it - on the other hand - at least to accept the request of the General Accountant of the State and, therefore, to proceed to the reformulation, as provided for in the technical report, which is positively verified to this condition by the Accounting Office. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You asked the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to intervene, Dr. Morando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak only on one of the two issues raised, because the first is solved by the decision of the President of the Senate. As for the second, the Government accepts the proposal, which the Budget Commission is making, to retain in the text paragraph 3-a of Article 13, in the wording which overcomes the problems which had been proposed in the examination of the original amendment. The Commission - as we can see today - had reasoned that, with the agreement of the Government itself in that forum, an opinion would be contrary to the absence of a technical report, because it was necessary to show a compensation between savings and higher charges, which has now been demonstrated, and which, however - as the President said - is only demonstrated if the text becomes the one proposed in the technical report. This text removes any reference to the composition of the committees, which had originally raised the doubt that the compensation was not perfect and, in any case, not motivated. The Government therefore accepts the proposal to amend the text on this specific point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u48	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, I would just like to make one point. I was aware, from the reading of the text, that there had been no change in coordination, which was also authorised by the Commission. In Article 7, the following words are inserted after the words "of the State of Authenticity": "In the matter of Authenticity." This, however, is contrary to the point in Article 3, which has also been amended, where it refers to the status of citizenship. Therefore, in the course of coordination, it was proposed to include in Article 7, after the words 'of the State of self-employed persons', the words 'of Italian citizenship', expunging the words 'in matters'. I believe that there are absolutely no financial problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u49	I would like to ask the representative of the Government whether he takes note of these further clarifications from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u50	We take note of that, Mr President. It was also a matter that we had taken up and pointed out to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u51	The Presidency also takes note of this and thus remains established. Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u52	Mr President, in this decree-law which has been translated into a large amendment, of everything we have said, both in general discussion and now, on the urgent provisions for speeding up proceedings there is nothing, nothing at all, but a continuous blurring of solutions, a continuous putting forward proposals. I have listened to the rapporteurs talking about safeguards that are still being safeguarded. That is not true. It has been said that the measure brings rules to protect the human person, greater rigour in refusal and entry: that is not true. In recent weeks I have been visiting all the extraordinary reception centers and I am having several talks with the prefects, who continue to act in an absolutely emergency way, although the state of emergency has not been legalized. I have visited several centers, such as SPRAR, where the associations, the cooperatives that deal with these structures are almost totally unprepared. There is a lack of cultural mediators; there is a real lack of communication between the people who arrive - we do not know where they come from or why - and the territory, and therefore there is no integration that will never happen, because they themselves cannot even express themselves by speaking different languages. We are constantly creating situations of social, but also economic distress, because the municipalities themselves ask us with what funds they can manage to organize real reception centers. The municipalities themselves have no funds. We have tabled a number of amendments which could also meet the professional system: people who welcome immigrants must still know English and French. I now read that in an amendment tabled to Article 14, it is proposed, after paragraph 1, a commitment of expenditure of 2.5 million for the year 2017 and 5 million for the year 2018. But for what? To strengthen the security of Italian citizens and interests abroad with the sending of new staff of the Carabinieri Arm. So what's going on? Instead of using funds to really train and prepare people for the reception, you continue to think of bringing service and security system externally. In addition, the new detention centres which should speed up the return of those who are not entitled to international protection and who have no legal basis are absolutely identical to the IECs. Just change the number, maybe. For now we do not know how they will be built and adapted. We continue to talk about places, rather than places, where respect for human beings and their rights is absolutely absent. As a Committee on Human Rights, we have conducted a survey of this issue and I call on everyone to see what kind of places the CIEs are. We should have thought about the conditions for removal and detention. The government should have been concerned with regulating the real system: what are the socially dangerous cases - and therefore alienate them - and which, on the other hand, really affect people in conditions of serious human insecurity. But none of this is in the decree-law under consideration. And now the government is asking for yet another useless confidence in a decree-law that scares me and not a little, because it seems that poverty is added to poverty and despair to despair. In fact, the obligation to welcome people in absolutely incredible places, where there is nothing, like the extraordinary reception centers (CAS) in the middle of the countryside, without the possibility of having any relationship with the citizens, or in absolutely poor places. And I have seen several in the area of Sulcis Iglesiente, where there are already enough poverty and despair. So all you do is add despair to despair. It's a very ignoble decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u53	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u54	Mr President, the Silveri Gentiloni Government persists in the furrow excavated by the Renzi Government, with its 92nd decree-law and eighty-eighth vote of confidence. To demand the confidence on the decree-law in question is Minister Finocchiaro, who right here in the Assembly stigmatized the excessive recourse to the decree of urgency by the government, of which - it must be said - was not part at the time. If trust is placed, we cannot limit ourselves to the merits of this measure, but inevitably we must ask ourselves: does the government deserve confidence? On the subject of migrants has an overall project that makes sense to the decree-law under consideration? The answer is no. Italy has become a swamp, where a river of people enters and does not find an outlet, because it is abandoned by the European Union and its own Government. The Balkan route, which invested Germany, was quickly closed, with an action by the European Union that Italy helps to pay. The Libyan route, which invests Italy, is completely open and, indeed, in the first two months of 2017 the inflows increased by 48 percent compared to last year. In 2016 something like 180,000 migrants entered Italy: if we keep this trend, at the end of the year how many will be? For us, the European Union does nothing. The Regulation known as Dublin III requires Italy to manage this multitude of people. Since 2014, with the motion tabled by Mr Di Stefano, the 5 Star Movement has indicated that the key responses should have come from the European Union: as I said earlier, Germany has demanded and obtained exactly this. In our case it would have been necessary to change the Dublin III Regulation, where it obliges Italy to manage a problem that is instead of everyone; to define maximum quotas of migrants per country, to oblige European partners to take charge of it and to establish asylum points, paid by Europe, directly on African soil, in order to avoid the deaths at sea and the emergency on land in Italy. After years, the government started talking about quotas. And I say that he started talking about it, because it is true that allocation quotas for asylum seekers have been arranged, but it has been a mockery: only 2% have been running. After all, how can we go and beat our fists with the European Union when Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri presented themselves "with a hat in their hand" to beg about the overtakings in the budget law caused by the electoral tips for the referendum? There are no solutions here. So what do we find in the decree-law under review? The aim is to speed up appeals on asylum applications, eliminating a degree of judgment; specialised sections of the courts are set up, which will decide in the boardroom with unappellable judgment, without obligation to hear the applicant. This involves a dangerous compression of the right of defence, not only for the person concerned, but for the State itself. It wouldn't be the first time a law has been unconstitutional. And imagine what would happen? The Government, which has adopted this measure, moreover by decree-law, takes a serious risk. We have tabled amendments to restore the right of hearing, a measure which would not have particularly affected the economy of the judgment and would have made the measure more robust in terms of the protection of rights: rejected. But there are other perplexities: to speed up the process for which it is established who has the right to asylum and who does not make sense if you know what to do next. In 2016 we had 123,000 asylum applications with a 48 percent increase in flows over the previous year. We'll have something like 180,000 asylum applications. Government estimates are even higher. So let us ask two out of three questions: do we have resources to integrate 120,000 families without a European plan? And what do we say to Italians who don't have a roof and a job? Our 2014 motion committed the Government to allocate equal resources to immigrants and Italians: none of this happened. On the contrary, the government has blocked our measure on citizenship income: a measure that in Europe is lacking only to us, which would serve to give dignity to millions of families, pensioners to the minimum, subtracting them from the occupational blackmail of recommendations and political tips or the hand of the mafias and that would reduce the tensions and resistance that we also see on the territories welcome the SPRAR projects. I think of the municipalities, abandoned to themselves, who suffer the cuts in transfers and cannot hire staff to manage the new projects and the amount of effort that these people and families require. I really think the one on our exam is a screen measure, which sounds a lot like "let's go and go." I am also thinking of the thousands of applicants who will be denied the request and who will not be entitled to asylum. Where will they go? A network of 1,600 new places for return centers is established: one is said by Region, more or less. But what reunions? In 2016, 12,000 were executed. This decree-law allocates a handful of millions that will suffice to repatriate perhaps a few thousand people. What about the others? Tens of thousands of requests are planned. What happens to them? He's making fun of an entire country! After the one hundred and five days of stay in these centres, the refugees will be released, period. And those 1600 places will be just a parking lot at the expense of the citizens, a icing on the cake of the business that the large private chains of the reception already split. We have tabled amendments to ensure that these centres - they are detention centres, of course! - are managed directly by the State and there is no private speculation: rejected. We have asked that at least they be entrusted to organisations specializing in this delicate and particular function; that priority be given, in the allocations, to organisations that do not already manage other structures, in order to promote specialisation, to give more transparency and curb the large organisations that almost assume a local monopoly: this proposal has also been rejected, with the disgusting scene of a vote cancelled four times in the Commission, until the amendment has been rejected. Doubt inevitably arises: do you want to solve the problem or expand a business? Do you want to give an answer to those who have the right, distinguishing it from those who do not have it, protecting in a balanced way the refugees from devastating situations and with legitimate rights, but also the legitimate rights of the Italians, or is it only the interest of someone? It's not clear. I have made clear, however, the case of the cooperative Ecofficina Edeco, which in the North-East the press called "cooperative takes everything." In 2011 it had a budget of 114,000 euros, increased to 2 million and 369,000 euros in 2014 and 10 million in 2015, with a profit of 440,000 euros, doubled in a single year. But throughout Italy we have examples of such organizations. We need to understand, then, if this emergency is for anyone, if it is increased or left unanswered to art or if we really have a reversal of course. We don't see this. We see, on the contrary, the continuation of the same logic: from the march to boots bolted in the Commission, to the refusal of dialogue, to the imposition of the vote of confidence when the number of amendments tabled was absolutely compatible with such a delicate decree-law, on which it was necessary to find convergences and a broader consensus. At this point it seems like they want to stiffen their positions to keep everything as it is. The answers don't come, trust doesn't deserve. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u55	I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education Salvador Allende-Pietro Custodi in Milan. Thank you for coming to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, for those who listen to us and for those who listen to us on television, it is right to make a reference: it is not that the Senate is inattentive about a problem such as immigration, which is instead for the attention of all citizens. It is simply the Government's fault, which believes every time to present decree-laws and impose trust. Then it is considered useless and the same parliamentary function fails, which is that of a confrontation in order to implement a law that makes sense. Not only do we always have to say that they have no ability to compare, but we also have to add other things. Mr Undersecretary, if, by chance, the Government in the Commission had expressed a favourable opinion on the amendment of Forza Italia which I tabled, it would not have had the importance of the technical report. We had said that 250 had to be the components; indeed, we had proposed that they should be increased to 400. I still don't know what you're gonna do. To talk about immigration, you should first of all have brought legal entry into our country into this House. And I am not angry with Minister Minniti, who has repeatedly stated these principles: it is necessary to regulate entry and, at the same time, it must be said that, once refugees and asylum seekers have been identified, others must go home, as the Minister himself points out. The measure does not do this. Does it speed up the time for determining the conditions of those entitled to international protection? No. We were, in fact, faced with errors in the identification of competence. We have said several times that it was more appropriate to provide for the jurisdiction of the courts of appeal and not of the courts, for two reasons: firstly, because there was greater force in the chamber proceedings carried out collectively; secondly, because our entire legal system moves in that direction. For the first time, however, you involve the courts. In addition, you mock us: say they are sections. Minister Finocchiaro knows better than I that these are not sections: you called them that, but they are not. We had proposed to you, by ministerial decree, to determine organic plants, because the specialized section is built according to the table. They are tables and, therefore, are variable, have no predetermined places. You are so out of the picture that you said you wanted specialised magistrates, but I wonder if you know that for fifteen or twenty years there have been magistrates dealing with immigration and that, given the years, they have reached the possibility of going to court of appeal: you will also lose those specializations. You have therefore caused a triple damage: firstly, you have created an alternative system to ordering; secondly, you have eliminated the goodness and efficiency of a collegiate system, thirdly, you will have no specialized people. At the same time, you expect three, four, five or six-year stays, but you don't understand how long they have to be. These posts are tables: you have done nothing, it is as if the first section of each court of the chief town of the district were to assume the title of "specialized section," but this will be done through the proposal of the president of the court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in the formation of the tables, will have to determine who the magistrates are. These sections are not sections: they are sections on the subject (i.e. the subject goes to that section), which is not what you wanted to do. We had helped you with a series of corrections, but we have come to the point that even when we look forward to measures that are in the interest of the government, you reject them. I say this not only with regard to the issue of the 250 we have just talked about, but if you really had the intention of setting up an acceleration, you would have accepted that commissions should be set up in each Province; in fact, having realized the sections specializing in each district capital, the territorial commissions would have had to operate in each Province, so that the number of asylum seekers, refugees would be diluted. Instead, we will have a mass that, as usual, will take a long time. We have tabled amendments to achieve the objective you wanted to achieve. I am not speaking as if I had never drawn attention to the point: we have tabled amendments which you have not accepted. The experience of the decree-law in question also poses another problem. I refer to the point just referred to by the President of the Tonini Budget Commission, who had expressed a favourable opinion on the amendments signed by Senators Russo and Bernini concerning the Red Cross. Those amendments were voted on in the Commission because with the continued use of the decree-laws and trust there is no room here to deal with problems that are urgent and need to find a solution. Then you tell us they're inadmissible. All right, but at least those that contained directions could have been considered favorably. Mr Secretary, you were present in the Commission (Mr Finocchiaro was not there). All over Europe, it is we and Germany alone who are providing for humanitarian protection. However, Germany sees a small number of people being protected by humanitarian aid (they are just a few thousand), while for us there are now hundreds of thousands. Since, under the agreements made, those people will never be able to be relocated to other countries of Europe again, was there a need for reflection or not? Or do we have to charge the territorial committees with this finding that it is of no use and that basically only serves to ensure that those people never leave Italy again? We must reflect and take care that I am talking about a measure of the Turkish-Napolitan law reinforced by the Berlusconi Government; however, thanks to the Berlusconi Government, in 2010, we had arrived to have a few thousand (2,750) arrivals from the sea. We're just talking about arrivals from the sea here, and we're not talking about arrivals by land. And coming from the sea, but then we had 4,000 people in total subject of humanitarian protection. I did not say that the measure was wrong; but we need to think about how to correct it. However, we are faced with the impossibility of dialogue. You see, Mr. Undersecretary, the impossibility of dialogue leads to mistakes. I have lived his experience and I have always sought - Minister Finocchiaro, who was the Parent Company in this House, he knows - to find a solution that would be compatible with the order and that would achieve the results we wanted (someone accused me of being a mediator). There's no such possibility anymore. You see, Minister Finocchiaro, Pietro Barcelona, whom we have both known, would say that the law is no longer the fruit of opposite interests, but at least of convergences: of convergent ideas for the realization of the common interest. We have proposed some solutions and we would have liked you to tell us which were good and which should have been correct (don't just tell us that we are good). What I am saying now will mean that we will verify it from here to six months or a year, when that situation and that new organization that you created with the decree-law will make water from all sides and we will find ourselves in the situation before. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u58	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u61	MORRA (M5S). Colleagues, yesterday many people will have been ashamed to observe what was proposed by "Report". They must have been ashamed not to report, because the report does nothing but bring out what is unfortunately happening. I am referring precisely to what is happening in the world of public research, in a world that has been the subject of 26 acts of inspection union between the Senate and the House, if I recall correctly, having in no way received answers from the Ministers directly concerned. The CNR is led by the same researcher, Massimo Inguscio, who conquered notoriety in Catania, ending also on the front pages of the national newspapers, because he argued, on April 8, 2016, that in order to do research you must not make the same depend on ethics. Too bad that, at least in the management of the financing and the money of the taxpayers (it is 1,200 million euros per year), the ethics of transparency and control should be used, unless we want to grant that it can happen what was precisely denounced yesterday by "Report". I am referring to episodes of malversation and the fact that even a case of concussion was contested to a subject who was arrested yesterday afternoon, such Gargiulo, who would have thought of fleeing abroad, having known precisely that he was the subject of an intervention by the famous transmission of Rai3. Too bad that Inguscio himself, who should ensure a transparent and public government of what he decides and what he does, was the subject of a question of ours, because it was selected at least in a questionable way. At the time, Minister Giannini argued that an assessment had to be made on merit. Instead, a selection was made, the first two were discarded, and one of the three who had arrived was chosen. Now, all this goes hand in hand with the statements of Minister Giuliano Poletti, according to which in Italy, rather than presenting curricula, it is better perhaps to develop knowledge, perhaps intimacy, perhaps familiarity, so perhaps we must believe that the CNR should be led by people who play football with some member of the Government rather than by serious researchers. I repeat that there are 26 questions that have not yet been answered. The judiciary in Naples yesterday ordered Gargiulo to be arrested for danger of escape, but perhaps there could be others. We certainly do not want that to be the case, but the government could at least answer our questions from time to time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u64	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I use this space to express my closeness to all the organizations in Abruzzo that have been working for decades in the field of environmental protection and that in recent days have expressed, with a note addressed to the President of the Republic, to the Presidents of the Environment Commissions of the Chamber and Senate, to all the parliamentarians, to the Presidents and city councilors for the environment of the Regions, to the European Commission and even to the DAC, the strongest rejection of the new procedures of environmental impact assessment, which is expressed in the proposal for a decree prepared by the Government for the transposition of Directive 2014/52/EU, amending Legislative Decree no. 152 of 3 April 2006. The measure does not take note of the lesson that Italian citizens gave to the Government on 4 December 2016 and further degrades any instrument that could serve the purpose of involving local authorities and citizens in the decisions. Mr President, let me give you two examples. The measure provides to be able to access at any time and for any type of work to the EIA in sanatoria. It is even possible to continue the work, even if discovered to carry out a project (a quarry, a pipeline or other) without EIA, or when the EIA opinion, if existing, was suspended or cancelled by the TAR. The verification of the subjectability of EIA, which is in fact a filter for waste plants, quarries and other, will practically become a harp. The participation of citizens and local authorities, who had 45 days to submit their comments, has been completely eliminated. It will only be the publication on the web of a preliminary environmental study by the proposer, without further elaborations. From that moment on, within sixty days, the competent body will have to express itself. The decision of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea can take place even within an hour, without any citizen or local authority being able to have a say in the matter. This is a decree that looks with clear annoyance at the participation of citizens and local authorities in the choices that concern the territories where they live. The measure offers advantages to those who want to illegally and abusively exploit the environment, putting at risk the health of people and the quality of the territory. I believe that this country does not deserve all this, after decades of plundering the territories and devastation, now before everyone's eyes, precisely because of the neglect of the ruling class. We cannot leave these choices in the hands of this same ruling class, deaf and blind to so many organized citizens, who have, on the other hand, demonstrated their foresight over time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u67	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to bring to this House the scream of rage and despair that has been rising from Salento this morning, where, near the Trans-Adriatic pipeline (TAP) shipyard, the intervention of the public force has been authorized and arranged to counter the peaceful resistance of hundreds and thousands of citizens - farmers, students and even representatives of the institutions, like many mayors of Salento from any political formation, as well as regional and parliamentary advisers also of the 5 Star Movement - who have been charged by other citizens wearing uniforms. This is yet another episode of the state that goes in short circuit, of a state that is posing against the State, where citizens obliged to carry out the orders of maintenance of public order are forced to use the force and the baton towards other citizens who, in a disinterested way, want to protect the reasonableness and their territory. Salento is a distant territory. It's like talking about colonial phenomena and going back in time. I have listened to the speeches made, as well as that of my colleague, Mr Castaldi, with reference to government policies on permits for the construction of industrial plants or plants, where we are proceeding in the wake of the so-called unblocking of Italy, so as to completely eliminate any possibility of public consultation on the territories. If that is the direction, we must say no. What happens today in Salento, yesterday happened in Piedmont for the TAV; in every other corner of Italy it can happen that citizens use their bodies peacefully to oppose a political violence that has precise senders, who has precise interests, which are always those of few. Behind the Trans-Adriatic pipeline (TAP) deal, for the Azerbaijani gas that should arrive in the North and Central Europe, there are in fact the interests of a few workers and of a few - fortunately - political forces, which still count too much and which we hope tomorrow will count less. Today we of the 5 Star Movement are forced to be in Rome, but it is as if we were all physically in Salento, even with the risk of taking a baton on our forehead, to oppose choices that do not have a strategic-economic rationality, that do not serve Italy, but only to favor few, to the detriment of the environment, of the naturalistic riches of Salento and of hundreds of olive trees, even secular, that have been explanted. They'll have to be put back in their homes, but we don't know if that's ever gonna happen. The iter of the TAP is illegitimate and will be interrupted. TAP's not gonna happen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u70	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to stress the serious inconvenience and difficulty experienced by AIAS workers in Sardinia. The AIAS has about 1,240 employees who have been complaining from eight to nine months that they have not received regular remuneration. The association operates, as is well known, in the very delicate area of assistance to people with disabilities and, therefore, the condition of difficulty in which the employees are located certainly has a reflection on the quality of the services that today are provided in agreement with the local health companies. This situation has become even worse in these hours. Workers have already started a hunger strike since Friday, which is taking place in the different locations where AIAS operates. We believe that this is absolutely unacceptable, that it is a violence to which the regional authorities must immediately remedy. We have also asked the Minister of Health, with a long-standing question, to intervene on this matter, not to leave the workers, the disabled and their families alone to face a crisis situation of a person exercising functions in agreement with the public authority and with coverage of public resources, essential public service functions. We believe that it is time to find appropriate solutions. We have also suggested that, if necessary, a Commissioner should be involved in committing AIAS to the remuneration of arrears and doing so by immediately following the obligations arising from the operation of a public service. Moreover, the Region has already paid and, if the same and the local authorities concerned have not paid as much as they must, we believe that they must do so without delay in support of workers, families and persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u73	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking on the very serious events this afternoon in Melendugno, Salento, where there was a sit in the square of mayors, citizens and committees of regional directors and advisers, to defend their land and, in particular, to demonstrate against the explantation of olive trees and against a work, the TAP, on which we are - alas - intervened several times in recent years and which is a trans-Adriatic pipeline. I would like to remind you, to those who speak and continue to talk about the national interest of this pipeline, that this has everything to do with it but national interest. It is good to be clear that this is a work, not only with a very strong environmental impact, but which has nothing to do with the energy mix concerning our country. In fact, it is an operation to transform our country into a kind of gas hub, because the gas that passes through this pipeline, and that crosses the Adriatic coming from Azerbaijan, is actually destined only to Northern Europe. This puts the tourist activities, the real economic activities of that land at risk. What has happened is very serious, because the protesters of a peaceful sit-in, who were there to defend the symbol of their land, precisely the olive trees, were loaded wildly and beaten (even mayors, administrators and regional councillors) simply because they were defending their land against an absurd work, which is against the national interests of the country. Others are the interests of the country. I would also like to point out that the consortium is based in Switzerland, not in Italy. There are other interests behind this work, for which, among other things, there are not even all the authorizations. The project has also been varied, as well as the path. So you get there and you proceed with the expiants. The police are defending not the national land, but other interests, which are obviously not the national ones. I ask Minister Minniti to come and report back to the House on what has happened. We will continue our battle, of course, but we demand that the Government come to report on the very serious events of today and that, above all, finally take note of the fact that this work must be stopped. We say this in the interest of the country, as others are the works that serve from the energy point of view to Italy. On the other hand, we still do not want to do them, while we start a work once again characterized by a strong environmental impact and has no use (if it does not do even worse) from the energy point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u74	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-794.ana.u75	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.28 a.m.
