ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u6	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to dedicate a moment to the memory of a Member of Parliament of previous legislation, Oreste Tofani, who died last Sunday. He has been elected several times as a member of Parliament both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. In the past legislature he presided, here in the Senate, the Committee of Inquiry into the "white deaths" and has for a long time dealt mainly with social issues and work. He was a trade unionist of the CISNAL and Regional Councillor of Lazio, and was elected in the 12th legislature in the Chamber and in the 14th, 15th and 16th legislature in the Senate. In the last legislature he was one of the Vice Presidents of the People of Freedom Group. I think he was appreciated by many colleagues and by many people who work in the Senate in various ways and who have known his dedication, uprightness and love especially for the themes of work and sociality. He died prematurely at the age of 70, after a life dedicated to politics. He was born in Alatri. He has been engaged several times on the territory in local authorities and with a long presence in Parliament, first among the benches of the National Alliance and then of the PdL. I think it is right that your Group should remember this example, but I think that all colleagues and the House join in addressing to their families the most sincere condolences and in remembering the activity that has always seen him attentive, committed and protagonist of a loyal political battle, especially linked to the themes of work, which have been central in his work as trade unionist, administrator and parliamentary. President, thank you for allowing me the opportunity to recall Oreste Tofani. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency supports the condolences of its Group and the family. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CoR groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2583, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1295. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the examination of the articles of draft law No 2583 was concluded in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u10	Mr Bruni (CoR). Madam President, when we approached the draft law on unaccompanied foreign minors, our approach was certainly positive because we shared the ratio of the draft law aimed at introducing a uniform and organic regulation on unaccompanied foreign minors. With respect to the initial objective, however, many of the decisions and changes made to the House have not achieved the results that we all hoped for, especially because the draft law does not really take into account the extent of the phenomenon that concerns unaccompanied foreign minors who, in recent years, has involved more than 10,000 minors, with a high percentage of irretrievable. Certainly some parts of the bill cannot but be shared. I am thinking of Article 4, which concerns first aid and reception facilities for unaccompanied foreign minors, where the principle of separation between facilities reserved for adults and those reserved for minors is envisaged, a ten-day period for the carrying out of identification operations and the reduction from sixty to thirty days of the maximum period of detention of minors in such facilities. It is also possible to share the provisions of Article 5, where it is expressly provided for the procedures for conducting the interview between the qualified staff of the first reception facility and the minor, with the participation, if possible, of organisations, bodies and associations with proven and specific experience in the protection of minors. After that, most of the articles in the draft law, as we have also been able to ascertain during the general discussion and especially during the examination of the amendments, reveals more critical points than not true strengths or solutions. I am thinking of the part of the measure concerning the determination of the age that would be resolved first by the document. It seems obvious and one could not fail to insert this kind of prediction, but it is clear that these unaccompanied minors can rarely have a document with them. Then there is the possibility of the intervention of the consular and diplomatic representations. However, I would like to remind you that we are often faced with minors who emigrate from their land because they are refugees and persecuted; it is therefore difficult to refer to diplomatic representations. Finally, there is the most important issue, which we discussed in this morning's debate, which concerns social and health checks. The formula that has been chosen for the same, even at the outcome of today's debate, is very nuanced because it is established that they must be as invasive as possible. This says everything and nothing; surely it is a prodromic formula that will certainly favor disputes and a number of doubts. All this is not resolved by the provision of the bill because the presumption of the minor age remains as the final clause when the other criteria do not meet the requirements of objectively determining the age. All this, however, with a clause of invariance - this morning much has been discussed - because without new resources it will be difficult to carry out the stage of social and health inspections. Another critical aspect concerns the fact that unaccompanied foreign minors, after the identification phase, will be brought into authorized structures, Region by Region, according to different regional laws and regulations; which will result in a different treatment in the various regions of Italy, and certainly will not have the objective of uniformity of treatment at national level. Objections were then made as to the double attention that will be paid to the unaccompanied foreign minor through the volunteer tutor and the foster educational communities. Well, while specific educational obligations and benefits are foreseen for the foster communities, as far as the voluntary guardian is concerned, there is no provision for an ad hoc case but there is a general reference - and this could not be the case - to the civil code. However, the requirements strictly necessary for unaccompanied minors are not at the centre, which is certainly not the child to whom the legislator of the civil code had thought, with a whole series of consequent problems. The most critical point in my opinion, which would make me say that, since we have discovered that we are a land of immigration and not only of emigration, these twenty-seven years, since the end of 1990-1991, have passed unnecessarily, is the fact that we continue to put back every organizational issue, and therefore financial, to the municipalities, with the maintenance of that financing of 45 euros paid with unsustainable chronic delays (with varied situations in different parts of Italy, so, depending on the municipality and the social plan of the area or the framework plan that concerns welfare, we register weekly different responses and certainly with the constant of delays and dysfunctions by the organizational machine of the Ministry of the Interior and the prefectures). Well, you cannot continue to leave this hot potato in the hands of the municipalities, which in turn disregard the needs and expectations of the foster educational communities, all involving a disorganization of the system, lacking answers and above all generating a further discomfort in relation to the fact that these communities are not able to carry out first their educational task and integration on the basis of which they must direct all their activities. For these reasons I would like to say that, even after the adoption of this bill, all the organizational apparatus concerning the management of unaccompanied foreign minors always remains in the hands of Police, Municipalities and foster communities, who will not see their fate actually changed and will not record any progress in the organization of this whole machine. This will certainly be a further law that will not solve the problems but will once again be a blurred opportunity. Precisely for this reason, as Conservatori Riformisti-Directione Italia we declare our vote against the bill. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u13	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as always we must say: what a pity! You have succeeded once again in making this House look like a body that doesn't matter. Are you convinced of the bill in question? I would like to pass a bench between my colleagues in the majority and ask everyone if he is really satisfied with what he has done and what he is doing today. You have mortified the Senate Assembly by not accepting any kind of amendment (not even the most reasonable) by Members (which I do not even want to call opposition). You also rejected reasonable ideas. I think you're experiencing a truly extraordinary moment of what I might call political onanism: do everything yourself, because you've become used to it. You have become accustomed to the votes of confidence and not to listen to anything; in fact, the results are seen: the laws deleted by the Constitutional Court, the referendum lost. Anyway, go on like this. Remember, though, that sometimes it happens that the gallery is like that of cartoons, that is, with the fake hole, so you hit it and get hurt. In fact, you've already hurt yourself, but continue with pervicacia to behave like the character with the train that goes against the wall. Okay. You have done this operation of great and high legislative capacity, but first of all do not put money in it: we are talking about 900,000 euros in total. Do not tell stories: with these resources the provision will not even have the opportunity to start being put on the field. Secondly, as always, you download everything on local authorities, without them having a return of resources to support what you have foreseen in the legislation, because both local authorities have become your ventilator. Through prefect structures, you get the prefect to turn his phone up and tell him: "Look at the clandestine people coming to you." In fact, it is the illegals (not the children) who arrive without documents; it is written in the vocabulary, a pity that some magistrates believe that the word "clandestini" is to be censored. Call the mayor. It's gonna happen with the kids, too. You refused our proposal that you should commit ASLs to verification, because you have to put together third parties, associations and everything else. You have included everything in the provision, but you have denied us the possibility of having the interpreter: you spend everything but the interpreter will not be there. You have pretended not to understand that there are ambiguities, with which you will determine disparities between unaccompanied minors, creating in the articulated a system for which some will have some kind of assistance and others will not have it. You deserve a negative return. Too bad it's gonna be those kids who're gonna be in the middle of your perverse system of political pride that doesn't want to change anything. You are interested in planting a flag; Too bad that it will be a half-auction flag for you because every day, even with these that should be measures marked by sensitivity, attention and participation, you can lose. Not only can you miss the opportunity to share them, but you also lose political dignity, as does those who do not want to listen to anything. You do not listen, you are disinterested; you are not even interested in the most obvious problems. Is there a security problem? It's okay. Is there a problem with identifying whether these subjects are seventeen or twenty-two years old? We don't care. We have the problem of giving a path of certainty, but you don't care. You will only be interested in the headlines of tomorrow's newspapers in which to write that the Senate approved the measure on unaccompanied minors. The shameful thing is that you could very well have voted in favour of the corrective and improvement amendments tabled, because the draft law in question will return to the House of Deputies. Do you realize that the only amendment you have approved is that which provides for regional guarantees for childhood and adolescence in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano? Don't you feel a little ridiculous? I say this knowing that, with the agreement of the Government, the rapporteur had tabled a number of amendments. So, being the rapporteur who is a major collector, you have discredited yourself. The rapporteur wanted to put things right, but at some point the Soviet order came to nothing, apart from the provision on the guarantors of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. The second order was to put the numbers in it. They told you: "Misters, make the figurines and tomorrow take a stroll on the news, so much money for minors we don't give them to you." That's what you need to know outside! Do these scenes just to show you one more day on television and tomorrow the children will find themselves with the same problems. Your problem is political. You gather on these issues because if you were to discuss topics such as work, unemployment and the suicides of artisans, you would get into a fight, as you have been doing for a long time. You do not have the strength and the ability to face the real problems and therefore look for the hill where to perch, forgetting the problems of the country, and this evening, pleased with this vicious and ill-fated law that will criminalize the children, you will be pleased with a great result without thinking about what is happening in this now unfortunate and unfortunate country. However, you see, from tomorrow, or at most next week, the examination of the so-called Minniti decree will begin in the Commissions of merit and this will not allow you to disengage on the things you have still wanted to say. We want order, tranquility and security, and it is not true that these requirements are reconciled with the problems of those poor children whom you still enslave to a system. The provision will not work and you will be responsible, as for the deaths in the Mediterranean, also for the fate of those children who will end up on the routes of trafficking in sex slaves or human beings for the explantation of organs! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You, demagogues of the last band of times that have passed, demagogues so much that you are almost like the actors of the Greek comedy, take off the mask, it is time to do something! You can't do it anymore. We'll do it soon. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u16	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the Senators of the Article 1 Group - Democratic and Progressive Movement will vote in favour of this measure. We believe that this bill constitutes a further step in the accommodation of unaccompanied foreign minors, not actually being the first step. For some years now there has been a strong intercourse between levels of government, on which I will return, because it should also be strengthened beyond what we can do with regulatory intervention. I also remember that a greater stability has finally been achieved in the financing of the reception of accompanied foreign minors, who up to four to five years ago was random and fell all over the shoulders of the Municipalities. Important legislative steps have already been taken with Legislative Decree No. 142 of 18 August 2015, which is taken over and systematized by the measure under consideration. This intervention, as it should be, is also based on the general principle of the prohibition of refusal and the protection of the child inspired by the superior good of the child, the central element in all international conventions dealing with children and adolescents. Some important innovations are introduced, I recall some of them: the protection of the child is strengthened with the role properly assigned to the court for minors; the formation of the confidants is expected; it is also introduced on a national basis, beyond what has already happened in some regions, the list of voluntary guardians and is provided for the management by the court for minors. It is also important that the draft law under consideration should review this legislation by revising the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No 535 of 1999 in order to clarify more clearly elements which, even in the current wording of the draft law, remain fairly general and on which we have been announcing our commitment since today. This is in order to regulate in greater detail the information system that regulates the presence and movement of minors and to allow a better clarification and differentiation of procedures related to the tracing of family members on the territory, which should not be confused with the investigations of family members in the country of origin, as often happens and has happened also in this debate. The point I would like to stress is that the reception plan described here reaffirms in the basic lines that of 2005 with further positive aspects. In particular, it is expected to reduce the maximum time of stay in the first reception facilities, with the confirmation at that stage of the implementation of the national information system of unaccompanied foreign minors, which is a fundamental tool also because, as was recalled, in the transition from the first reception to the second we unfortunately have a significant number of minors who become unavailable. This is a very serious problem that must be monitored, because often such children, as we know, end up in the hands of trafficking and organised crime. After this first reception (identification, age verification and other aspects already highlighted), there is the reception in second-level structures where it is essential that we try to define, as has already been done to a large extent in the State-Regions Conference, standards of assistance and accreditation that must be guaranteed on the whole national level. This is a project that we are absolutely in favour of, but we need - and I want to stress this from the outset - a further commitment that goes beyond our mandate as legislators. It is true that it is expected that the stay in the first reception centers will go from sixty to thirty days, and that is right, but at the same time we must remember that now this stay is an average of ten months, so it is a very ambitious goal (it was already that of sixty days), because there is no strengthening of the second assistance network that - I remember - was already foreseen in the 2016 reception plan, which called for an acceleration of the strengthening of the second network also through the Protection System for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR). This seems to me the essential point and we are aware of it, so much so that in the decree local authorities of 2016 a norm has been introduced, that it should be a buffer norm and that I hope it will be overcome when the system that we approve today will really go to regime, that allows, in cases of inability of the first reception to support a very strong influx, to entrust to the prefects the possibility of resorting to temporary accommodation structures without duration of permanence. This choice is required by an emergency from which, however, we must leave, otherwise we create a parallel track that does not have the protections that with this bill we are developing and that addresses a topic that unfortunately we must finally, after years that talk about it, put really in place: that of equal distribution on the territory of these children. These are 18,000 minors (unfortunately 12,000 remain in the reception) which, in front of the 8,000 Italian municipalities, is absolutely sustainable provided that there is no concentration of 6.000, 7.000 or 8.000 in one Region. This is what is likely to happen and this bill prepares the elements to avoid it. We need a commitment that calls the government and regional governments to their responsibilities, so that we can actually implement what we are writing today, far-sightedly, knowing that, in general, immigration issues are not these. The problem of fair distribution of children and adults between countries within the European Union is a matter that needs to be addressed seriously. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u19	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, what particularly impressed me in this debate is that the possibility of arriving at a widely shared text, given that the objective of the bill would be to protect unaccompanied minors arriving in Italy, was, instead, emptied of the pervicacious intention of the rapporteurs and the Government to close themselves in the enclosure of the majority and of the 5 Star Movement Group, rejecting even the most logical and common sense proposals, as has been repeated several times, compared to a phenomenon that has implications that go far beyond the abandoned child. I remember, as I did yesterday, that the impoverishment of Africa is mainly due - as the humanitarian organizations and those who, like the bishops and missionaries, work on the ground - to the fact that the most capable, most active, most economically well-off people leave Africa, who face risks in order to achieve an improvement of their existential and economic condition: not as refugees from wars but precisely because of an economic issue. In doing so, those countries of a potential ruling and economic class depauper, without which the situation in African countries is screwed on itself, always worsening the conditions of the population, because only those who are not able to plan a future remain, starting from a situation that was not that of Italy and our great migration. In fact, in the great Italian migration of millions of people, they were forced to leave precisely those who had no minimum maintenance situation in our country; luckily, the small and middle bourgeoisie did not leave, the craftsmen, the traders, who had a piece of land to cultivate: people left who needed to seek luck because in Italy there was no possibility of work. Exactly the reverse is happening in Africa. If, for humanitarian reasons, it is logical to deal with the problem of abandoned children, it has been demonstrated, I believe beyond any reasonable doubt, that the 16-year-olds, 17-year-olds, 18-year-olds, or 20-year-olds who arrive in Italy are not abandoned children: they are people who knowingly come to Italy hoping, declaring themselves underage, to enjoy a situation of privilege, compared to all adult immigrants. Honestly it escapes me - and it has been emphasized - so that those who are seventeen years and eleven months old can enjoy a certain type of protection, that is perpetuated even after they have completed eighteen years, and those who arrive having eighteen years and a month, vice versa, do not enjoy the same treatment, with a frankly incomprehensible disparity. The child is the child, but eighteen years old is the age of the military, the one in which people went to fight in all wars. Those who today are engaged in the armed forces in foreign missions are just that age; indeed, in some countries the enlistment is even at seventeen years and not at eighteen. The Weltanschauung of this provision is then totally wrong and is in conflict with the other government's provision, the decree-law, for which I thank the new minister Minniti, who understood, since he is a man of the world and knows how to read and write, and who is doing what unfortunately had not been done by the previous government, that is to put the limit to a situation of public order that has become unmanageable at all levels and to uncontrolled immigration, which has become unmanageable also for economic reasons. Moreover, when Mr Malan repeated several times the number of murders, rapes, stalking situations, robberies and pickpockets that can be charged to abandoned minors (not to children, but to people who, in fact, are approaching the age), I did not hear anyone from the Government, nor from the majority to respond in a civil, calm and exhaustive manner. Therefore, either the data that Mr Malan has given are completely wrong or, if they are true, it is a good responsibility, instead of dealing with this phenomenon, to accentuate it through this law. Everywhere in Africa, not migrants, but those who exploit migrants, that is the organizations of traffickers of men, those who make billions of euros or hundreds of millions of euros on the skin of migrants, will have all the conditions to tell people of that age to come to Italy, because there is a law thanks to which you just arrive and declare yourself underage to have a whole series of conditions of favor. This, far from limiting the problem, will accentuate it, multiply it, create situations of unmanageability, will put mayors and local administrators in trouble again. Even that plethora of situations that are included in the law to manage the phenomenon make sense if applied to children under fourteen years of age, while they do not have any if applied to people who are about to be older. So I'd like to know, but isn't there anyone at the Ministry of the Interior? It had a logic when there was the interior minister Napolitano and we discussed these things, at the time of the Turkish-Napolitano law: we put ourselves around a table, discussed and found common solutions, even in a dialectic between majority and opposition. I was in opposition, but I helped to write the Turkish-Napolitan law, which started with shared logical assumptions. Now, it seems that accepting a suggestion that comes from the opposition is harmed majesty. But that is not the case when there is common sense, when there are better conditions and when we agree on the purposes to which we come to apply a certain law. Instead, when you make the laws and you prove (I am an easy prophet: we will see in two years the result of this law) that the result is exactly the opposite of what you want to achieve, rather than say it before, to warn before doing some things that could at least improve the law, what else can you do? For these reasons, in defense of abandoned children (true children), in defense of the right of Italians to live in a situation of security and not to be put at risk in their conditions of livability, in defense of the local administrators on which this law will be downloaded for the umpteenth time, with these ambiguities, our vote can only be a vote against. And we're sorry that's the case. But, dear Undersecretary and dear colleagues, you will then go around Italy, in the face of crime statistics, to tell why you made this choice. You will go and explain the difference between seventeen years, eleven months and twenty - nine days and eighteen years. You will go to explain why some cautions have not been taken in approving this law. You will say where you take the resources and then finance these measures, which unfortunately risk remaining on paper. So reluctantly, but in the conviction of making at least a contribution of wisdom, I declare the contrary vote of the component to which I belong.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u22	COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, the great problem of the migratory flows that we live every day in our country knows a further problem in the problem, that of so-called unaccompanied foreign minors. As early as 2015, international bodies had warned that 10,000 minors entered Europe that year had disappeared after their arrival. These 10,000 minors probably fell into the hands of an international crime network; this was the most acclaimed hypothesis, even by European intelligence. It is no novelty, as is widely felt here, that crime has exploited the need for thousands of refugees and asylum seekers to travel within the Union without passport and visa and has transformed the weakness of migrants and the inability of European authorities to manage such a large and complex phenomenon in a turnover of thousands of euros. It would seem that only in Italy are thousands of untraceable children; the minors who, once landed on the Italian coast, were entrusted to the system of first reception but then voluntarily escaped the control of the authorities and lost their tracks. Already in 2014, in an inquiry by the daily newspaper "The Guardian" the fact was denounced that the majority of minors, e.g. Eritreans, who arrived in Italy refused to be identified by the authorities because, if they had been registered in Italy, by our rules, they could not have applied for political asylum in other countries of the Union. For this reason most of them run away from the reception centers and live on the street, sleeping in railway stations or parks. As far as Eritreans, Syrians and Somalis are concerned, these are transit experiences, because they are people who declare, already on arrival in Italy, that they do not want to be identified in Italy but want to reach countries of Northern Europe. The fact that they are missing means that they have escaped identification, or have fled to Northern Europe. We're very impressed with the case of Eritrean boys. These are 15, 16 or 17-year-olds who want to avoid compulsory military service in their country. After the end of the war with Ethiopia, in fact, in the year 2000, the Eritrean Government extended the compulsory military service indefinitely for the entire population between eighteen and forty years, making Eritrea the second most militarized country in the world. Under the dictatorship of Isaias Afewerki, compulsory conscription has become a lifelong system of forced labor, and this justifies why the children try to leave the country, seeking a better chance of life, in many cases without even informing the parents of their plans to emigrate. The Eritreans on their journey rely on a network of compatriots, who offer their economic support and accommodation and in this sense can be referred to as lucky. Many others, in particular the children from Egypt, are forced to repay the debt contracted to reach Europe by sea, a toll ranging from 1,500 to 3,500 euros. For this reason, once they arrive in our countries, they end up in the hands of crime: to try to repay this debt. In the worst cases, children can be intercepted by traffickers who, pretending to promise them accommodation and work, instead kidnap them and if families cannot pay the ransom, minors have to work as drug dealers or prostitutes, all profitable activities for the underworld and certainly times to repay these debts. We are aware of the dramatic nature of this phenomenon. Other investigations have pointed out that children are employed in agriculture and in the wholesale of fruit and vegetables, and in this case too, they are not controlled by the authorities. 2016 has scored a record of arrivals in Italy for unaccompanied migrant minors: they have landed well over 25,000, according to the Ministry of the Interior, twice as much as what happened in 2015. The children hosted in reception facilities in 2016 are 17,000, less than those who arrived, which means that there is a share that escapes control. Egypt and Gambia are the first two countries of origin of foreign minors hosted in reception facilities. Among asylum seekers, 5,228 children are under 13 years of age and more than 6,000 children are in the age group between 14 and 17 years of age. According to some organizations, such as the Association of Legal Studies on Immigration, the numbers of foreign minors arriving in Italy would be underestimated, because they are not considered minors arriving by other means, for example from Slovenia and not by sea. These, in fact, escape control. Until now, therefore, in our country, unaccompanied foreign minors have not been protected by a specific law, but by the same rule that regulates the cases of abandoned minors. At present, unaccompanied minors are entrusted to reception centres or SPRARs, which are often not sufficient for their needs. There was therefore a need for a specific rule to deal with the problem and today we are called upon to respond to this problem. Given how delicate and complex the problem is, this rule only tries to give an answer, which will certainly not be perfect and will be perfectable, but which, at least, is an organic response to a complex problem, existing and to which we must take care, wanting to sum up the core of the issue. In fact, the responsibility to combat the phenomenon of the exploitation of children in Europe cannot be entrusted solely to the forces of order, just as it does not seem possible to find a concrete response to the exploitation of children if we do not offer an adequate reception to the thousands of people who have arrived on our territories in recent years. The draft law that we have examined today strives to collect in a single text all that concerns unaccompanied foreign minors, trying to give a single overall response to the phenomenon. The main elements on which the law focuses are four: the first is the reception of unaccompanied minors in specific places for their identification; the second is the reception in the System for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR); the third consists of clearer rules for the appointment of guardians with the establishment of the register of voluntary guardians, an absolutely positive and necessary aspect; then there is the custody and promotion of custody in the family, a point definitely delicate, but highly qualifying of the norm, whose effects will be evaluated over the years. At the moment, minors are identified in hotspots, which are not suitable facilities for them; moreover, due to the too low number of places available in SPRARs, minors often end up in extraordinary reception centres (CAS) that do not meet the standards of reception and in which children in many cases remain until the age of majority. Moreover, the assessment of the age of minors in Italy does not take place according to uniform guidelines throughout the national territory, i.e. it happens with different methods: this is also an element that certainly is not good. A qualifying point in the bill is certainly Article 7 concerning family custody, which I said, according to which local authorities promote awareness and training to encourage the custody of unaccompanied foreign minors to families. We know that the practice of custody is a delicate and almost never crossed path in the case of foreign minors, while in our opinion it could finally give the right answer to the problem, being perhaps the only way to really integrate these children into our system and our civilization and make them part of a better quality of life, allowing them not to be abandoned to themselves and then become, almost certainly, factors of widening the various bands of lawlessness. For these reasons we consider the bill to be positive and we will vote in favour, because we believe that, although not perfect, but perfect, it can be a right response, for some notes of quality, to this dramatic problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u23	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Professional Industry and Craftsmanship Filippo Corridoni in Corridonia, in the province of Macerata, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u26	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the priorities of the reform of the rules on unaccompanied foreign minors is the obligation to introduce uniform rules instead of the existing provisions contained in different laws and with rules of different legal and legal degrees (conventions, laws, decrees, regulations, circulars). The need for organic discipline contributes, in line with the need for merit, to the introduction of reinforced and effective safeguards to protect the right to receive unaccompanied minors. The need for greater legal protection has its motivation in the particular criticality represented by unaccompanied foreign minors, who are the most exposed border, where the most serious abuses are, of the migratory phenomenon. To introduce greater forms of protection is certainly not an exclusively Italian problem. The European Parliament has, since 2013, posed the problem to the Member States of the Union. We must be aware that the adaptation and reform of national legislation must be consistent and, first of all, must call for a common migration policy of the European Union. The problem of unaccompanied foreign minors has assumed the dimension of a structural emergency, in Europe and in our country: the unaccompanied minors present and registered in Italy at 30 September 2016 are 14.225, as well as 6.357 unavailable. Hence the need to introduce, with the new legislation, some strategic and super-ordinatory principles. The fundamental principle is that children are deemed to have rights to the protection of minors in equal treatment with children of Italian citizenship or of the European Union. Their condition is the subjective scope of law enforcement. It is because you consider the minor alien unaccompanied as a person in a vulnerable condition, which has its own uniqueness unavailable. In other words, it is objectively so, beyond the fact that the procedures for the recognition of international protection have been activated or that an application for asylum has been made. It follows, for this reason, the absolute prohibition of refusal at the border of unaccompanied foreign minors, even if, moreover, they are not in possession of an entry permit. Legal innovation consists of the fact that for foreign minors it is a prohibition that is not, as it were, negotiable or conditioned because it can be persecuted for reasons of race, sex, language, citizenship, religion, political opinions, personal or social conditions. The only derogation which may justify refusal is linked to exceptional reasons of public policy and is a derogation subject to the judgment of a court of minors and which must not entail a risk of serious harm to the child. There is a supreme interest, namely the unaccompanied minor alien, that the new discipline must always prevail, with the provision of specific procedural and procedural guarantees. The definition of unaccompanied foreign minor, which determines the scope of the law, recalls European jurisprudence and Community directives in this field. The law applies to the person who entered without being accompanied or who was subsequently abandoned by an adult responsible in the territory of the Member States of the European Union. The measure to our examination, precisely because of the need to introduce organic legislation, provides for measures and provisions of first reception, first of all referring to the identification of minors and to the determination of their age, within times appropriate to the urgency of their condition. A uniform framework is introduced on national territory with regard to the identification procedure for the child and in particular to the determination of the minor age, which is clearly the substantive reason for the enhanced protection measures introduced by the measure in question, which, as we have already observed, are not subject to other discretionary criteria of interpretation. The identification and verification of the minor's age and personal history must be carried out within a reasonable period of time on the basis of effective application of the new framework. The determination of identity and age must be carried out by the public security authorities and, in cases of doubt, provides for the decisive role of the Court of Minors in ordering further investigations. Hence also the reduction to thirty days of the child's time of stay in the centres of first reception, when the child must be informed of the protections to which he is entitled and which he can request at national and international level, just as he must be assisted from a psychological, cultural or legal point of view. It is good to clarify and understand how the bill that we are called to vote does not limit itself to regulating in a unified way the first reception phase, both in determining the identity of the child, and in predicting that he is informed of the specific safeguards to which he is entitled. An essential part of the new discipline is also to provide for ways of assistance which must promote the child's educational and educational journey. The strengthening of procedures for the right of unaccompanied minors to request international protection and the provision of bilateral agreements with countries of origin, for example with the financing of development cooperation programmes, are general aspects which have the same objective: to harmonise the legal, international and national regulations of the system for the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors. For these reasons, Mr President and colleagues, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, I am voting in favour of this measure. We are doing this with a further conviction: that the new discipline on unaccompanied foreign minors is a hope and support for immigration policies, first of all the problem of refugees, certainly rigorous and responsible but not inspired by the identity spectra that dominate the European scene. Europe must tackle the problem in a unified way and especially its external borders if it is to defend the principle and the area of free movement of Schengen. Minors are the first and most dramatic emergency to respond to. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u29	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events of unaccompanied foreign minors are unfortunately among the most painful tragedies in the contemporary world: children and children, girls and boys fleeing from countries where humanity is most at risk, fleeing from countries where war and violence are most ferocious, such as Somalia, Afghanistan, Syria, where poverty is so acute that you cannot fear anything more than what you live, such as Nigeria, Eritrea, Egypt. Their stories have entered our homes and are now part of our everyday life. These children are refugees, asylum seekers or simple migrants, but, before anything else, they are mostly minors, lonely children, without families, without adults of reference. The recognition of these children's rights is an act of civilisation and justice: our reference point is the Declaration of Universal Human Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence. We believe that these children have the right to welcome, that is not the fruit of our goodness or, at least, it would not be a sign of the goodness of a country, if it were not, at the same time, recognition to those who do not have the means, the tools and the resources to use themselves. We talk about the right to life, which is the prerequisite for all other rights, because if there is no protection of the life of these children, there will never be recognition of any other right. We are talking about a right to welcome that is, at the same time, the right to have a family that takes care of it in some way, remodulating and reproposing the affections, feelings, the relationship of care of what should have been their family. This is one of the qualifying points of this bill, it is one of those points that says "no" to the hypertrophy of the institutions, that says "no" to a logic of a state-centric type, that says "no" to a logic that puts bureaucracy as the root that interprets what is the need of man and, therefore, it also appeals to families that are willing to take care of these children, families that do not know the violence that these children have suffered and the pain that they carry, starting simply from the labors of the journey or from the malnutrition. Many months ago, we had already drawn the public's attention to this dramatic aspect of migration: if the data on arrivals impose fast times and procedures to propose solutions to migrant minors, we had imagined a derogation of at least two years to the current legislation in order to favor the family placement and adoptions of unaccompanied and orphan children from war zones, assigning a delegation to the prefects who, in place of the courts for minors, could provide for the issue of decrees of custody to families in a shorter time. Moreover, there can be no reception of minors if this does not turn into an accompanying itinerary for these minors to become of age. As always happens with children, our responsibility as adults towards them begins with the tools of training and education, to accompany them to do what could be, then, a professional job that guarantees their autonomy. It is no coincidence that international conventions have been written and signed for them and, precisely because of their greater vulnerability, these norms have been written which we are submitting today to the attention of the House and which come with the ambition to respond to humanitarian needs and our consciences, but also with the ambition to respect and apply the principles proclaimed in the Treaties that we have signed with the ambition to give Italy a stable and effective system of protection, to help our mayors, all the mayors, all the parties, all the political forces, who must manage the problem of reception, to support the work of international associations and organizations. With these provisions we hope to contribute to building a response that looks far into the future: integrating a minor, a boy or a child is an investment of civilization for the country. Some 20,000 have arrived in our country since 1 January 2016; in 2011, in the first survey of the bicameral commission for children, the figure of 3,500 children took effect. These two values, 20,000 and 3,500, show us the trend of migration: young people and very young people represent in the flow of migration of the world a quota that is constantly growing and their age is gradually decreasing. Many of them do not have as their destination the country where they land, but they want to reach other countries of Europe, perhaps to join the family. It is necessary, therefore, to work, as this bill does, on this front too, putting in place an answer that includes an accompaniment to the destination, without forcing them to new desperate journeys. Of the so-called missing minors, about 6,000 in this year alone, we have reason to believe that a part has gone away from our country exactly for this reason and in these ways, but putting at risk again its own safety and security, a second time. Without a well-organized reception system, in which boys and girls cannot get lost in anything, not only is the question of their safety not addressed, but the market of national and international lawlessness is nourished above all. This bill is a warning to preserve children, as the most vulnerable among migrants, in the knowledge that killing the right to the future of children means depriving your country of a better future. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, after these two days of debate on the draft law on unaccompanied foreign minors, I am obliged to make a few notes in relation to a few words that have been heard in this House that have sometimes seemed - I would like to say quite clearly - even of pure prejudice and at other times seemed to represent a catastrophic scenario, with thousands of adults pretending to be minor in order to enter our country undisturbed. This type of operation, to which we are witnessing with a certain frequency, risks only - I say this with equal clarity - to nourish the fears and insecurities of people, perhaps for a purely electoral gain. Doing this is not only wrong from the point of view of values of the constitutional principles of solidarity, acceptance and humanity, but it is a damage to the security of the country and also to the general interests of Italy. The measure, to which the Italian Left, with some amendments approved to the House, has contributed, is a step forward, not only in improving the living conditions of the many foreign minors arrived in Italy, but also because it can provide important tools to remove thousands of boys from the hands of criminal associations, which are one of the main causes of the disappearance and escape, every year, of an impressive number of girls and boys, who are in this way placed in the circle of child prostitution, of the spy, if not worse. This law on the reception and protection of unaccompanied foreign minors has long been awaited and we must stigmatize this. It is precisely for this reason that we, as the Italian Left, have withdrawn our amendments: to help speed up the adoption of the bill, which has also seen the collaboration of many associations. We want to believe that this contribution has done a pretty good job. I was talking about three years late in implementing a structured and efficient system of protection and reception, a delay that has created many problems. He has exposed vulnerable subjects, such as children and girls, girls and boys, to dangers and risks of various kinds. I would like to remind you of the data: 26,000 children arrived in Italy in 2016 alone and, unfortunately, we have to see that they are constantly increasing, because already in the first two months of 2017 we register an increase of 50 percent compared to the two months of last year. They come from Syria, Afghanistan, West and Central Africa; they flee from the war, often from ISIS, but above all from poverty and hunger, which are not - I would like to remind you here, because I have heard some strange words - causes to be snubbed, to be considered second floor, because we will have to prepare ourselves more and more, unfortunately, for such situations. I think, as I often say, of environmental refugees, who are at risk of increasing more and more. The minors who arrive are often alone, in some cases because during the crossing at sea they lost their father or mother, in others because the little money, the result of sacrifices, was invested, perhaps entrusting them to merchants, to give their son or daughter the hope of a better future. Many of these guys, as I was saying, have lost track. The data tell us that there are about 10,000 missing children in Italy who are also wandering around Europe. That is why a new law was necessary and urgent, because the current system has not been able to stem this phenomenon, it is not able to function and to ensure adequate protection, to which our Constitution refers. This measure, which we hope, returning to the House, is quickly approved, has the merit of strengthening the instruments of protection and ensuring greater homogeneity, which is absolutely fundamental, in the application of the provisions contained in it and therefore in the reception system. It includes, in the definition of unaccompanied alien minor, also the minor asylum seeker, confirms the prohibition of refusal and expulsion and at the same time - a point much discussed between yesterday and today - establishes, in our opinion, with some clarity, the single procedure for determining the minor age, on which depends the possibility of applying the protection measures. The right is established to a service of first reception and assistance in appropriate structures, exclusively dedicated to children, thus eliminating the danger of promiscuity. The maximum number of days of stay in these facilities is fixed and this is also a step forward. The intention of the text must be to ensure the assistance in every state and degree of the proceedings, as well as the right of the child to participate and to be heard in all judicial and administrative proceedings concerning him. It promotes - and I am very pleased about this - the institution of family care, among other things, it also establishes the list of the entrusted persons who have been formed, and regulates the family surveys in the country of origin, with all the cautions for the unsafe countries, because this is the absolutely crucial element, which today, however, has been very confused. In general, therefore, rights are extended, including on the educational, training and health care fronts, and a specific programme of social, psychological and legal assistance is also envisaged for victims, which is a little neglected in the debate. Of course, the text could absolutely have been improved. The amendments we had tabled in the Commission tended to do so and we would have liked them to be approved in this respect. However, we chose to withdraw them because this bill could no longer wait. We felt like welcoming the call to make soon, formulated by associations like Save the Children and by all those who care about these kids. For all these reasons, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote in favour of the measure under consideration, demonstrating the fact that, when working seriously to improve the guarantees and protection of the weakest and to extend the rights, we are always willing to give our contribution and that if we choose the parliamentary way, in the end it renders itself a true service to the country and to the interests of those who need it most. In announcing our vote in favour, we would like to point out that we have often, even in the past, approved measures and draft laws that we have considered positive, but then, unfortunately, the time has come for the application of these provisions to be critical. I therefore appeal to the Government to ensure that, with the rapid approval that we hope will take place in the House, there is just as much determination and determination to ensure that the new provisions brought about by these articles of law really find a valid application. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u35	SERRA (M5S). Madam President, I hope that this draft law on the reception and protection of unaccompanied foreign minors will not be sunk down. Indeed, I hope that it can now be adopted in the Senate and soon also by the House. Almost 26,000 children arrived alone in Italy, so it is absolutely necessary a structured and effective system of reception, since to date the desperate search for dignity is bartered by merchants of unscrupulous men, men who despise respect for life, who only care about the trade of desperate people, whose life is managed and controlled also in Italy through the start of criminal activities. We are talking about very serious crimes such as trafficking in people, reduction and maintenance in slavery, child prostitution and organ trafficking. The situation of difficulty and inability of European countries to manage migration, and in particular that of minors, is before everyone's eyes and perhaps this management is chosen and wanted, because the business has its own rules that go beyond the right of human beings, adults or children who are. It is clear that, in this emerging disorganization, criminal organisations play a fundamental role in the ability to facilitate the escape and in the management of reception centres and with the CARA in Mineo and with the inquiry called Mafia Capitale we have had the clear explanation: the latter is proof of the ability of organized crime to manage the business. In the various extraordinary reception centers (CAS) located in Italy and in the reception centers for children we have seen some emergencies. In 2016 about 6,500 children arrived in Italy have become unavailable. On average, one out of three flees reception centres in a desperate attempt to reach relatives in other countries of the European Union. In the first ten months of the year just passed it has been established that 80 percent of foreign minors landed in Italy have made a long and dangerous journey without adults accompanying them. The President of UNICEF Italy said that never in the history of migration had we dealt with such a phenomenon. In such a critical situation, the bill that we are preparing to vote on, however perfect, as has been said, is a necessary and fundamental prerequisite for better intervention on this humanitarian disaster. I would like to reiterate that, so that the reception of unaccompanied minors is really such, it is necessary to have clear legal and technical tools, it is necessary to have trained staff, it is necessary to serve specialized psychologists, it is necessary to serve tutors who know how and where to act; in a word it is necessary to prepare, not only smiles and pats. There is no point in discussing the missed opportunities, the fact that perhaps this goal could and should have been achieved for some time; we need to maximise the resources and instruments of protection already guaranteed by our legal system. Unfortunately, for the General Accounting Office of the State, the draft law that we are about to vote will not bring new burdens and, in Article 7, it is reiterated that the municipalities will not be able to act only within the limits of resources, giving non-binding indication for the promotion, awareness and training of persons who will accompany minors. In practice, nothing can be developed, especially in those municipalities where public finance is exhausted. Article 17 provides for a specific assistance programme for victims of trafficking to ensure adequate conditions of psychosocial, health and legal reception even after the age of majority. But this too will have to be implemented without further burdens. These are some of the measures planned. It has been said and it is undeniable that more could have been done, but, with the hope of doing better, if we cannot be satisfied, we can say that we have taken a few steps forward to address this problem which requires rigour, so as soon as possible to achieve a truly effective shared solution. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u38	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we have examined, on which we are going to vote in the final vote, is part of the right need to protect unaccompanied minors who arrive in Italy in conditions of need, weakness and vulnerability. It is a question of protecting their safety and rights once they arrive in our country, in particular in one respect. The statistics provided by the Government tell us that of the 25,846 unaccompanied minors who arrived in Italy in the last year as many as 6.561 (i.e. more than one in four) were unavailable at the end of the year. So, with an average stay in Italy of six months, one in four disappeared. As written today by important newspapers, it is likely that most of the young people who make themselves unavailable will leave by their own will: those who want to go to some other country, those who join relatives somewhere in Italy or abroad, those who do not stand the rules on the residence where they have to stay (we will also see that they have other ways to make them understand that they cannot stand these rules), those who join the small underworld. The odds are different. As I said, the number is about 6,500. However, there are those who also speak of activities to their detriment, that is, of a situation quite different from that which sees the departure by the will of the children. Some even say that these people are being used for organ trafficking. In other words, they are killed to pick up their organs and sell them on some black market. These are horrible things that must be countered with every effort. However, in order to protect minors who arrive in Italy under difficult conditions and worthy of due protection, it is not possible to treat anyone who comes to Italy under these conditions and declares that he is under eighteen years of age. This is clearly unsustainable. Even in Italy we have people who need assistance: we think of the disabled and those who need special support. But what would happen - a lot has actually happened already - if we decided that to have disability pensions, support, grants and benefits under the law of 5 February 1992, No 104 was sufficient self-declaration? What would happen if it sufficed to claim to be invalid, or to have a disabled family member in need of care? They would thus allow themselves to be absent from work, accompaniment, disability pension and so on. What would happen? The same principle - it does not seem even elementary, but it is obvious and there should be no need to say it - should be applied to those who claim to be minors in danger. On the other hand, this bill does not at all deal with this possibility. For this measure all those who declare themselves minors and arrive in our country must be treated exactly as an Italian citizen; then we will see that they are treated much better on points that are also very delicate. The consequences of this totally unrealistic approach are very serious, first of all starting from the point that has aroused the attention of all - and everyone has called for the adoption of a measure on this particular problem - namely to help those who need it. Since they are mixed with those who do not need anything, assistance will evidently be very poor. This law allocates very little money and only for the legal assistance of these people. I would point out that legal assistance is also given if such persons are accused of murder or of any crime: this is clearly stated in the article dealing with this aspect, and that should already give us some thought. In addition, there are many other points highlighted by the rapporteur and others. For example, it is argued that there is a Social Policy Fund which allocates 380 million for one aspect and 188 million for another. Yes, but they are already existing funds and - as all those who deal with them know, but also all those who, even if they do not deal with it at all, talk to a mayor who explains the situation - are by far insufficient already today, even if only to deal with the Italians. The arrivals are undoubtedly urged by this measure, which a majority senator has defined as the vanguard in Europe. In other words, no one else in Europe is crazy enough to guarantee in such a indiscriminate and generous way anything to all those who come to Italy declaring themselves minor. With the new arrivals this fund will be further plundered and exploited to assist both those who need it, and on that we agree, and to those who not only do not need it, but would need much more. Those who arrive in our country and declare themselves unaccompanied minors may have parents (usually the father because they are almost all males) next to them on the boat, but declaring that they do not have parents benefit from such benefits; and you can not even in any way investigate whether they are really alone or if they really are minors. With this criterion, so many people are welcomed. Well, if there was any doubt, it would suffice to consult the data of the Ministries of the Interior and the Justice according to which 17,000 crimes were committed by foreign minors in 2015. Of course, the crimes have been many more because most of them see the unidentified author, and this applies to the crimes in general, and I don't think the very foreign children who delinquote get caught all the time. However, 17,000 offenders are personally registered to foreign minors. Among these are 32 murders: every eleven days a person in our country is killed by a minor foreigner, but we want to give him any privilege. Maybe it's not a minor, but it's just said it's a minor; it's actually using these benefits. These murders are strangely not heard of, because they do not agree with the agenda of the great means of disinformation (which they say they are of information), and therefore we do not talk about it. To these are added 54 attempted murders, i.e. more than one per week. In the last year there have been 268 sexual violence by foreign minors in our country. Every five days, four see sexual assault by a minor stranger, while the fifth day does not. But it will soon remedy this fifth day, because with the influx there will increase such crimes. It is not a matter of making any difference: if those who already have this crime rate, it is obvious that others will have the same crime rate. Where the possibility is even distant and theoretical that it is not so, we do not understand. Every day these young people commit ten crimes against the heritage (then there are all those not established) and five crimes precisely in the reception centers. How is it possible, in the face of these figures, to pretend that all these people are absolutely without any danger? To all this we respond with a law in which everyone is accepted; there are no limits, there is no person who has the responsibility to detect and solicit an expertise in case there are reasonable suspicions that an immigrant is over eighteen years old. The Undersecretary told us that, if they are terrorists, they are treated as terrorists. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But he said it in response to a passage in which it says that we cannot even try to ascertain the identity of these people, perhaps talking with the diplomatic or consular authorities of their country, because it is enough that they say that they do not like and do not. Gentlemen of the majority and of the 5 Star Movement, who vote compactly on these things, Italian citizens will suffer the consequences - and are already suffering from them - of this unfortunate vote. We propose to remedy, as soon as possible, by changing these crazy laws and defending the needy Italians and foreigners, not the foreigners who come to our country to take advantage of it and without solving, indeed aggravating, the problems of Africa from which, to a large extent, they come. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u39	We greet and welcome the students and teachers of the Secondary School of First Degree "Oddo Bernacchia - Maria Brigida" of Termoli, in the province of Campobasso, who are today visiting the Senate and who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u42	COCIANCICH (PD). Madam President, I think it would be right to address this debate without using emotional tones. It has been invoked several times, even by oppositions, moderation and I agree, because it would suffice the available figures to comment on what the bill intends to do. Of course, it is quite surprising to hear those who have appealed not to use emotional tones, then, to represent in this House what seems to me more like an Oscar movie script. We have just heard that every twelve minutes a minor alien kills an Italian. I do not know where these figures come from: 268 sexual violence, every day ten crimes against Italians; these are the figures that have just been reported. I would like to bring back a minimum of rationality in this debate by quoting, instead, the official figures of UNICEF, from which we must start to understand who these unaccompanied minors are. A few days ago, in February 2017, UNICEF published the report "A mortal journey for children" ("A deadly journey for children") and, on the assumption that there are 50 million migrants in the world, reports that there are 256,000 who crossed the desert of Libya last year. Of these, 9 percent were unaccompanied children, who suffered violence, abuse, imprisonment in detention centers established in Libya. Among the 181,436 arrivals in Italy, 28,233 were children, nine tenths of whom were not accompanied. 4.759 is the number of deaths in the Mediterranean, of which 700 were children, that someone wants to describe as people who come here to kill the Italians and to rob them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the route these children took. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] First of all, I invoke respect, respect, respect for these people! We can't insult them, that's enough! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]] There are 7,700 migrants in Serbia, 10 percent of whom are children. According to the report of Migrantes, these children prostitute themselves for 2,000 dinars a day ($17) to survive, certainly not to seek pleasure. Someone mentioned unaccompanied children as being schoolchildren on a trip, who may have lost a little or lost their parents; it has been said that we must reunite them with their parents before accepting them in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These are boys, girls, children or teenagers, those who are lucky enough to survive the shipwrecks, forced to prostitute themselves to try to survive, because they have nothing to live and to eat. This is the situation that we want to face with this bill. The Pope wrote that among migrants, children constitute the most vulnerable group, because while they face life, they are invisible and voiceless. Insecurity deprives them of documents. The absence of adults accompanying them prevents their voices from getting up and making themselves heard. I believe that today all the senators and senators who vote in favour of this measure want to raise their voices to make these children hear their voices. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this way, migrant minors easily end up in the lowest levels of human degradation, where lawlessness and violence burn the future of too many innocent people into flames, while the web of abuse is hard to break. In fact, Madam President, we always think of these children with negative meanings: they are not adults, not Italians, unaccompanied. That is, we define them for what they are not. We should look at them as we look at every child, as we look at every young person and every person at the dawn of his life, that is, as hopes of a new and better world, as resources, as people who, if they had a chance, could become strategic resources of a tolerant, dialogue, respectful and curious society of mutual differences. This requires an attitude of reception, care and protection of these grassed lives. This is what is proposed to implement this bill. This corresponds not only to the interests of children, these individuals, these people, but also to the needs for the protection of society, which, by creating conditions of greater justice and fairness, sets the conditions for greater legality and greater security for our citizens as well. Those who oppose the culture of hospitality push these young people towards a darker undergroundness, deliver them into the hands of criminal organizations, force them to live out of tricks to survive and fuel illicit trafficking. Those who oppose the culture of reception, perhaps using quirky and presumptuous arguments (such as those we have heard today on Article 5, on procedures for the recognition of the minor age), well these, perhaps suggesting a reversal of the burden of proof on the presumption ex lege of the minor age in case of doubt, create the conditions for new forms of marginalization, anger and revolt. We have already seen, in the outskirts of Paris, in the Molenbeek district in Brussels or in the suburbs of London, where these shortsighted and selfish policies lead. We strongly reject all accusations made to the Democratic Party in the course of this debate. We claim the merit of a policy that, by outlining an organic path of protection, touches all the critical points of this problem, namely the procedure for establishing the minor age, the activation of a database and a social file, the right to education and health, the right to listen and to legal assistance, the right to reunification and return procedures. The difference between us and those who have stirred up these ghosts is that we behind the face of a child see a hope of life, while you behind the face of a child see a threat, you see the terrorist Amri. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Malan]] We want terrorists like Amri to be arrested, arrested, condemned, expelled. However, we believe that it is unacceptable to extend, because of Amri, a presumption of delinquency to all unaccompanied minors. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is imposed by our principles, by our values and also by our Constitution. A general rejection does not correspond to guaranteeing security, but compromises it, because there can be no security without justice, justice between peoples and between men. Madam President, I shall conclude. We must adopt this bill, but we must not forget that we must act on the causes. So first of all, we must commit ourselves in the future not to sell arms to conflicting factions and start making a serious policy of peace in the areas from which refugees come. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] acting, therefore, not on the victims, but on the real causes that force people to flee by abandoning their homes. We should return to the guiding principles of the Turkish-Napolitan law, trying to create regulated and orderly flows of people who can come and return to their country. We need to create humanitarian corridors. We must say no to the criminalisation of illegality, because, among other things, there are no legal means to enter Italy. To argue that all migrants are criminals because they are illegal is hypocritical, because there is no alternative to coming to Italy except through illegal means. And we can't do that. Ultimately, the way we respond to this crisis will be a reflection of our humanity and our values. He said Don Milani: You have the right to divide the world into Italians and foreigners and then - and I make these words my own, and I believe that with me all the Senators of the Democratic Party make them their own - I claim the right to divide the world into disinherited and oppressed, on the one hand, and oppressors on the other. One is my homeland, the other my foreigners. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this bill. [[Live, sustained applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u44	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u45	MARINO Luigi (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Madam President, I voted on several amendments tabled this morning and yesterday by the oppositions, almost exclusively those from Article 1 to Article 5, because the substance of this draft law is, in fact, contained between these two articles. The knot of this bill, the strife of this bill, are not the little ones acclaimed, as Senator Cociancich said just now, to whom a civil state, with great solidarity, Christian and lay traditions, such as Italy, cannot fail to be generously available. The knot, on the other hand, is how to best fight the cleverness of age, for which the adult becomes, or can become, with this law, a minor. The node is how to make identification and age secure, giving legal certainty and not, through law, rewarding the smart ones that are many, too many and that if they see before them a permissive law they become even smarter. The question is as follows. It is not about the protection of minors that for me, personally, is out of the question. The question is another. With the exception of children who have been acclaimed, is this law strict? Does he put serious stakes in such a way as to make it inappropriate to perform a clever and illegal act? My answer is no. This law is a law of appearance. This law has been written in such a way as to appear so strict, but rigorous is not. Instead, it puts, in the hands of occult and skillful directors, the possibility of escaping the very same law, of making a minor of age. In Article 5, I counted seven gates that are apparently closed by locks. But these locks have a self-locking mechanism, so the smart adult who deals himself as a minor manages to get unharmed in paragraph 8 of Article 5. And through paragraph 8 of Article 5, we bring in minors and make them underage. So we shouldn't be surprised by the statistics. In conclusion, I will vote against, but it is absolutely not a vote against the spirit of this law or the assistance of children. I am voting against a thought that approaches the migration phenomenon in a surrendering, resigned and confused way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u47	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u48	AUGELLO (CoR). Madam President, I listened carefully to the debate, I voted for a number of amendments which were rejected by the majority and I have long been uncertain about what to vote on at the end of this debate. Then, Mr Cociancich's speech opened my conscience, so I decided to abstain (which means to vote against in this instance) because this rhetoric, colleagues in the Democratic Party, is unbearable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is no longer bearable that on serious problems, in a country in which around the issue of immigration and refugees happens everything, as unfortunately demonstrated by the investigation of the judiciary, and where structures contiguous to this or that political deployment (of course not because of his fault, colleague Cociancich), do business on these stories until they go to jail (because this happens), there is this rhetoric. It's no longer bearable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You must be resigned to the fact that someone - like the colleague who preceded me - claims that there is a minimum of deterrent and difference in treatment between a minor, that minor is and agrees to have her condition verified as a minor in order to have the reception, and what minor is not and wants to violate the norms and laws to enter our country, and someone asks and asks this Assembly to ensure that the first is accepted and the second is not. You have to resign, because that is a reasonable objection. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and the Senators Bignami and Simeoni]] I can understand the positions that have been expressed technically on the difficulty, in relation to the legislative and constitutional framework in this country, of asserting this difference. It is a reasonable objection, but it is not an objection to suggesting that those who ask to introduce a difference between these two figures are what you have said, Mr Cociancich: one who wants to eat children, who, moreover, historically, is more attitude than his part than that which is opposed to them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] Or, worse still, whether he is an insensitive person or a person with a tendency to commit crimes compared to the Constitution. This kind of attitude leads me to vote for abstention, because technically it allows me to carry out this intervention in dissent and it is a vote against, but be careful: out of here these attitudes induce a part of the country to think that there is a dialogue between deaf institutions of the country, because this matter is not the novel that you are telling with the happy end and with the oppressed and oppressors. This is a situation in which there is a country with 60 million inhabitants that is in serious difficulty and is at the forefront of the pressure of millions and millions of people who ask to enter Europe. This is the situation: with a government that is not in charge of the situation in Libya, that is not able to guarantee stability in that area, that is not able to have the solidarity of the European Union on this matter and that is therefore extremely lacking in order to be able to give moral lessons to others. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] That is the situation and that is why, with all my heart, Madam President, I shall abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u49	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u50	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u51	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2583, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] The draft law No 1295 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2494, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 2241 and 2437. The rapporteur, Senator Parente, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. 18.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u53	Mr President, the draft law before this House today is a long-awaited measure which, at last, gives an answer to long-standing questions whose solution is no longer procrastinable. This law is necessary, because there is a need to give the country a single national measure to combat poverty, that is the income of inclusion, a structural measure, with universal character and subject to the test of the means, on the basis of the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE). It is a measure to combat poverty which means that it is impossible to dispose of all the goods and services necessary to carry out a decent standard of living, as well as a measure to combat social exclusion. The measure must consist of an economic benefit and a component of services to the person, provided by the network of social services and interventions, through a personalised project of activation and social and occupational inclusion, and must be guaranteed uniformly throughout the national territory. In defining the benefit, account will be taken of the economic condition of the household and its relationship with a reference threshold for the identification of the state of poverty. It is precisely the commitment, which is realized in the personalized project, to make this measure an instrument that surpasses the welfare vision - rooted all too often, unfortunately, in our country - to put the person at the centre in respect of his dignity. The project must be prepared by a multidisciplinary team, made up of territorial areas, in collaboration with the relevant administrations in the field of employment services, training, housing policies, health protection and education, on the basis of an assessment of the need, full participation of the beneficiaries in the preparation of projects, a careful definition of the objectives and monitoring of the results, assessed periodically. In recent years there have been numerous measures to combat poverty, with an experimental, temporary, localistic or regional character, limited to certain areas of the country. Although important, these measures have not solved the problem of absolute poverty in Italy, which has now reached unsustainable levels. Suffice it to say that ISTAT has estimated the subjects in absolute poverty, in the last report on poverty in Italy of 14 July 2016, in about 4,600,000 units and in 1,582,000 families. With this measure, for the first time a national measure is established, so a person in difficulty living in Veneto is helped and supported in the same way as a person in difficulty in Campania and vice versa. During the hearing of representatives of ISTAT in the Labour Commission, Social Security, President Alleva stressed that, with regard to the profile of the absolute poor, the most evident change concerned the growing vulnerability of minors, linked to the difficulties of young adults, including the Centre-North, in supporting the economic weight of the first phase of the family life cycle. The measure therefore holds together the goodness and necessity of a national measure, which becomes an essential level of performance, with the forecast of a proximity path. In the Commission, majority and opposition held a thorough substantive discussion on the approach to inclusion policies. This is also an international debate. In the Commission, particular attention has been paid to one aspect of the measure under consideration, namely the novelty of the fact that the path that leads the person out of poverty is a project of inclusion, understood as a series of specific measures to accompany and care for people. Escape from poverty is not only a matter of income - it is also necessary - but above all a question of exit from a certain type of life, which too often results in existential degradation. Therefore, it is not just resources that are needed, but families must be helped to send children to school and to the pediatrician and to help them overcome difficult situations. We must move forward, overcoming this state of affairs and this is possible thanks to the investment that the Government has made with the Stability Act for 2016, which has allocated one billion euros to the regime, starting from 2017, to be assigned to the Fund for the fight against poverty and social exclusion and with the Stability Act for 2017. Therefore, today the resources of the Fund for the fight against poverty are equal to 1,180 million euros for 2017 and 1,204 million euros from 2018, and the law foresees, precisely, the implementation of a National Plan for the fight against poverty and social exclusion. The draft law also provides that the resources of the national and regional operational programmes provided for in the Partnership Agreement for the use of the European Structural Funds 2014-2020 will also contribute to the implementation of the personalised projects. Precisely through the National Plan for the fight against poverty and social exclusion - adopted every three years - a gradual increase in the benefit and extension of beneficiaries to be identified as priority among families with minor children or with serious disabilities or with established pregnant women or persons over fifty-five years of unemployment, on the basis of the resources flowing to the Fund for the fight against poverty and social exclusion through measures to reorder benefits of a welfare nature aimed at combating poverty, as well as through possible additional resources to be defined through specific legislative measures. And it is precisely the reorganization of welfare benefits aimed at combating poverty that is the second point on which the establishment of the measure is based. The reorganisation will cover benefits of a welfare nature aimed at combating poverty, with the exception of benefits for the elderly population no longer in working age, benefits in support of parenthood and benefits related to the disability and disability of the beneficiary. It is therefore the reordering of the current social card measures, active inclusion support and ASDI. For all these benefits, there is a gradual absorption in the future single measure, including a transitional period of protection for the beneficiaries of the social card. It may seem obvious, but I would like to stress the importance of this reorder that finally exceeds the stratification of the rules, giving a clear and transparent response to people and families in difficulty. For this reason, too, the Senate Work Commission has approved the bill in the version deliberated by the House, without making any further changes. Thanks to the work carried out in both branches of Parliament and the acceptance of numerous requests from audit staff - only in the Senate's work committee there have been 14 hearings - the text before the Assembly today is a text defined and detailed in the principles and guiding criteria to be followed by the Government to write the legislative decrees. A number of agendas, a majority and oppositions were accepted in the working committee, which commit the Government to clearly establish, when implementing the draft law, certain aspects: a majority agenda committed the Government to establish that the national measure to combat poverty is indeed a universal measure, providing, when preparing the draft budget law and all other measures, for the allocation of the resources necessary to make the gradual increase in benefit actually feasible, the extension of the beneficiaries' audience, as well as the development in the territory of adequate services for inclusion, under a national plan to combat poverty of multiannual duration; and to consider the impact of living costs in the quantification of the available income, in relation to the threshold of access to the measure and the determination of benefit. We have also approved an agenda of oppositions, the first signatory of which is Senator Catalfo, who has committed the Government to find, through specific legislative measures, without prejudice to the needs of public finance, necessary and adequate resources to deal radically and extensively with the problem of poverty in Italy. Another agenda of oppositions, the first signatory of which is Senator Barozzino, has committed the Government to increase - crucially - transfers to local authorities and employment centres, so that they are really put in a position to activate and guarantee quality and effectiveness to personalized projects for social and work inclusion, which appear to be a necessary condition for the provision of economic benefit to stakeholders. Both Alliance Against Poverty - an important subject, in the interlocution with the Senate - with an appeal launched on 28 December last, and the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, have urged the Senate to a rapid approval of the law delegation and a contextual preparation of the National Plan Against Poverty in which to specify all the implementing steps to be taken for the introduction of a income of universal inclusion. The Government, in the preparation of legislative decrees, will have to provide a very strong connection between social services, employment centres and the role of ANPAL, ensuring the presence of employment centers in the multidisciplinary team. After the adoption of the measure before this Assembly, Italy will no longer be the only European country in which the State does not provide aid to people in absolute poverty. Many poor families will thus have the opportunity to receive public support to build a better future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u54	: I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u55	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is still equipped with a welfare system characterised by a structural delay in relation to the changes taking place in the labour market, a highly fragmented welfare system, with large sections of the population being largely protected and, on the other hand, segments of the population completely excluded from any type of income support intervention, a welfare system which does not take into account the recent social and technological changes. The knot between inequality and bad flexibility is also crucial. In the last two decades inequality has increased in line with the increase in labour flexibility. In particular, Italy is among the countries with greater inequality and greater flexibility of work. A truly inclusive labour market should provide targeted training, geared towards those areas in which businesses decide to invest and require skills, create integrated reintegration programmes and follow-up by employment centres and agencies through active research and labour incentive mechanisms, converging towards the EU average of 2.5%. In addition, income support must be increased in Italy to 0.8% of GDP, compared with an EU average of 1.5%. The draft law under consideration is an insufficient measure to ensure a decent standard of living for all those living in poverty today and does not, in fact, aim to find truly universal means of combating poverty in the medium and long term. For this reason, it is quite clear that this measure cannot be regarded as a minimum income, because the appropriations are absolutely insufficient even to cover the entire population of people in absolute poverty (4,600,000 Italian citizens) and, therefore, more so, those in relative poverty, including unemployed, unemployed, young NEETs and working poor. In addition, it is noted that the bill provides for a very broad delegation, with guiding principles and criteria that would have been appropriate to define in more detail and that, unfortunately, the Government and the majority have not allowed us to modify in any way, as the draft law in fact was armored here in the Senate. The excess of delegation is obvious because the measure does not clearly identify the threshold of intervention; in doing so the Government will have full freedom to determine who is poor and who is not, without necessarily having to take into account thresholds defined ex ante as, for example, the threshold of risk of poverty understood as the conventional value, calculated by the National Institute of Statistics (ISTAT) in compliance with the provisions of the common framework for the systematic production of European statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC). The capacity of the Fund for the fight against poverty and social exclusion is totally inadequate for us to meet the needs of the population. It's just over a billion. The measures set out in the measure under consideration do not respond in practice to the obligations imposed by the European Union which, in this respect, with several recommendations and communicated (since 1992), calls on the Member States to have adequate social protection systems and recommends recognising the basic right of every person to have social assistance and sufficient resources to live in a dignified way. Paragraph 4 of Article 1 provides for the establishment of a coordinating body for action and monitoring the implementation of the measure. One wonders, however, why verification functions have not been entrusted rather to existing bodies such as the INAPP, which have already demonstrated that they have the appropriate skills to carry out these tasks. The measure also reveals the obvious and declared desire to entrust the private actor with extensive competences relating to social assistance. In this regard, it is recalled that Law 328 of 2000 already provides for the role of the third sector, both in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and in compliance with the usual forms of award or negotiation that allow third sector entities to cooperate with the territorially competent bodies. With equal firmness we urge Parliament and the Government to carefully assess the use of the ISEE as a benchmark for determining the conditions of access to the benefit provided by the draft law in question: on several occasions during the current legislature, we have pointed out the inadequacy of the new ISEE to certify the real economic situation of the families. As a result of the first application, it was pointed out that the new ISEE has effectively excluded millions of households from accessing facilitated benefits that would need them; households with uncomfortable situations that the ISEE is unable to properly assess; families with so many children that the current ISEE equivalence scale is not able to take into account. In this regard, we urge the Government to review the ISTAT memoirs filed on the Senate Act 1919 which is closer to the Government's bill of delegation. What must be absolutely excluded in the exercise of the delegation is that the number of entitled persons is reduced and that they tend to make cash through the elimination of other social protection measures (e.g. family allowances, deductions for dependent family members). Further concern is the large amount of work involved in applying the measure to administrations, in particular municipal administrations, and their resources to deal with it. In this regard - we have also done so in the Commission - we call on the Government to review all the criticalities that presented the minimum income of inclusion in the course of its experimentation. The municipalities, with the few resources available, will have to take charge of these poor situations, create social projects, monitor them, coordinate them, in the face of the continuous and large cuts recorded in recent years. This was also mentioned by a representative not of the opposition but of the majority, who came to the hearing to bring the word of the Italian municipalities. In this respect, it should also be noted that the draft law under consideration does not provide for concrete measures to ensure the continuity and strengthening of social services and local administrations in the field of employment services. The 5 Star Movement has always supported, as you all know, the need to include in our system a measure such as the income of citizenship conditional on the poverty line and active policy interventions. For the 5 Star Movement, therefore, an instrument that can be said to be truly effective at the factual level must have very specific requirements: the measure must be conditional on the poverty risk threshold developed by Eurostat, set at 60% of the national median disposable income equivalent; prevent situations of serious material deprivation and get families out of such situations. In order to effectively combat the poverty trap, all income support measures must be strongly influenced by investment in active labour policies and in particular in social services and public employment services; investments never made in these four years of government, although there was a possibility in the discussion on jobs act. For people of working age it is necessary to provide for the obligation to participate in real support measures to encourage integration or reintegration into the labour market such as: vocational training and retraining, active job search, pathways to work integration. With reference to the last two points, the 5 Star Movement also proposes a serious reform of the employment centers in order to make fully operational these state bodies, already existing, but poorly efficient, and therefore make them finally productive. The guarantee of a minimum income is included in the first draft of the social rights pillar and, at the high-level conference held in Brussels on 23 January 2017, at the conclusion of the public consultation on this subject, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, reiterated that minimum income measures should be adopted by all Member States. In addition, in the annex to the European Commission's Communication on the European Pillar of Social Rights, we can read - I quote the words - that most Member States, but not all, provide a minimum income to people in poverty or at risk of poverty who do not have other means of subsistence. Current problems, however, include inadequate performance (which does not allow beneficiaries to escape poverty), reduced coverage and failure to obtain such support due to the complexity of the procedures. These negative characteristics, written precisely by the Commission, are all included in the bill that the Government is currently bringing to the examination of the Assembly. I take the words of the rapporteur, Mrs Parente, to say that it is therefore very difficult to get out of a certain type of experience, because there is precisely an inadequacy of the measure in question. In conclusion, with respect to the issue of poverty, we believe that with the adoption of a bill as configured, Italy will still remain dramatically behind the rest of Europe and with respect to the principles set out in the European pillar of social rights, continuing to be the only country together with Greece to have never foreseen definitive and effective forms of income support. The Government, with this bill, continues to consider the fight against poverty in a marginal way, not including it in a broader reasoning on redistribution policies, having proceeded once again with a view to welfare increasingly shifted on the ground of assistance and less on that of social rights. Unlike the measure introduced by the Government, the solution proposed by the 5 Star Movement in Law No 1148 on the establishment of citizenship income (which this Parliament has avoided in every way to discuss), specifically identifies the beneficiaries of the measure, offering Italian citizens both economic support, and the concrete possibility to return to being part of society and the world of work in full respect of the principles solemnly enshrined in the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u58	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to suspend the examination of the measures in title. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, in the debate on the suspensive issue, no more than one representative for each parliamentary group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u61	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I rise to oppose the suspensive issue put forward by Mr Candiani, because it seems absolutely inappropriate and inappropriate given the issue we are dealing with. I believe that at the moment this House is waiting to speak, to open a debate on a subject which the two majority and minority rapporteurs have well introduced. It is a topic that comes from the country, which at this moment asks the policy to deepen the field of active policies against situations of discomfort that, in particular in some sectors and areas of Italy, today require more prompt and targeted responses than needs that have profoundly changed in recent years. I would really ask my colleague to give up the suspensive, otherwise I will announce the Democratic Party's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u64	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I too would like to speak in order to express the Group's opposition to the suspensive issue that has been presented and of which there is no reason at all. The draft law we are talking about has been dealt with in the Commission for a significant number of months; there has been plenty of room for extensive and thorough discussion, with all the hearings of the case; the amendments have been discussed and we all believe that the issue is extremely important and urgent. Although, as we will say better tomorrow, we can see this as a very important and significant first step in a wider path, but this is an extremely urgent step. Moreover, since it intervenes on particularly extreme cases of need, that is those that affect minors, who represent the plague in the plague of poverty in our country, I believe that there is absolutely no need for a suspensive, therefore we are absolutely opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u65	We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspension of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u66	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u67	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 18.41 a.m. and resumed at 19.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u70	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in view of the arguments put forward, I am convinced that I will withdraw my request for suspension. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u71	I take note of that. She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Senators, I am convinced that today is an important day for all of us, not only because just a few minutes ago we passed an important and just law for unaccompanied minors, but also because we are entering into the substance of a very long-awaited, very fair, very shared draft law, for which we have worked in the Commission working with our colleagues in the House, in order to respond to an important social need. Today, therefore, begins the final process of the approval of the draft law delegation relating to the fight against poverty, the reorganization of benefits and the system of social interventions and services, connected, as the rapporteur Annamaria Parente recalled, to the public finance maneuver for 2016. It is an objective of this Government, just as it was of the Renzi Government, and of this majority, to really fight and not to chat about poverty and social exclusion. Our lighthouse is Article 3 of the Constitution; that is our reference, all too often forgotten. I would therefore like to thank the Minister, the Government, the President of the Commission, the rapporteur and all my colleagues. I would also like to thank the many associations, particularly those of the Alliance against Poverty, which have further strengthened my conviction in the hearings and suggested further interventions that we will certainly be able to implement later. The text remains that of the House because there is urgency; we have not lost a single day to respond to this urgency and I hope that the decrees delegated and subsequent measures of the Government will keep these short times. My experience in the social field, as a local administrator and as an operator in associationism, leads me to a mixed approach, certainly emotional, sensitive, but also very rational. If there is a question on which it is essential to be sober and respectful, this is precisely the field of poverty. Mandela said that defeating poverty is not an act of charity, but an act of justice. For this reason we incardinate this provision of law as a necessary provision of justice, precisely in compliance with an article of the Constitution often forgotten. Sometimes, even in the Commission, this issue has been an area of easy and pathetic invective or odious demagogic proposals. We are dealing with extreme legislative poverty. I have dealt with it, along with many of you over the years, as a small town with associations, but above all as an administrator of a city and a Province in which, between 1990 and 2000, completely collapsed the industrial system, from 6,000 employed to a few hundred employed in the industrial sector. Those who lost their jobs quickly and immediately became poor. And then in 2009, when the earthquake in my city resulted in loss of work, home and social relations. I have had the opportunity, in my experience, to assist 40,000 people; of these many had entered the category of extreme poverty. And if I had had this measure, I certainly could have done much better in my business as an administrator. I have also experienced the first experience of the minimum income of insertion, with Legislative Decree No 98, which was experienced in 39 municipalities, including my city. A long-awaited and generous attempt, which unfortunately failed to meet expectations. Why? Because poverty is a tortuous terrain, because poverty is not satisfied with magic chopsticks or with easy solutions, because over the years the tragedy of poverty has changed, because unfortunately the municipalities have had to take care of poverty, often alone, together with volunteering and the third sector. The first experience, however, that of the Prodi Government with the Turkish Minister, showed better what had to be done. And we treasured that in this delegation law. I am referring to the importance of real determination of people's income and the need to take measures that are not a substitute for social shock absorbers, but specifically aimed at combating poverty. This intervention then - as Annamaria Parente recalled - was replaced by the social card, also partial instrument. On the other hand, it will take the necessary time, good cooperation with local authorities and voluntary work, in addition to this measure. Perhaps we will have to adjust the shooting in progress and we will have to answer, as we try to do, two basic questions. Is poverty linked only to the processes of impoverishment motivated by this serious economic crisis or does it come before and have its own reasons? It is easy to say: it rains, Government thief, there are the poor and it is the cause of the Government, without questioning instead the deep reasons. Then there is the second point. The fight against poverty must be, as we try to do, a general objective, which requires structural measures that call into question at least four issues: growth interventions, active labour policy interventions, active welfare and general policies for poverty reduction, which also need more schools, more universities and more culture. This is how poverty is fought, not by tipping, not just by tipping. Historical forms of poverty, especially in the Mezzogiorno, have been repeated and it is therefore more difficult to question the deep roots, while it is easier to attribute blame to someone. Social marginality is a cause of poverty; so is the fragility of the person. Consider, for example, disability, mental health, addiction. Let's think about the vicious circuit from father to son. The administrator sees it. Those who work in associations see that often generations, from father to son, maintain a state of extreme poverty. We want to combat poverty by promoting citizenship. And poverty must also be combated by promoting active citizenship and creating jobs. Work is the crucial element, but not the exclusive one. This is why Article 3 of the Constitution is intertwined here, which aims to remove the economic and social obstacles that prevent the full development of the human person, with Article 1 of the Constitution, because the Republic is founded on work: not on income without work, but on work; not on non-work, which is an aberrant thing and which can certainly go down because it may gain consent. The message sent by former Council President Matteo Renzi on the work of citizenship, rather than on the income of citizenship, is very interesting. And it is not only a problem of resources, but an idea of society, a model that we want to propose, where the resources to be put in the field must be used, if anything, for active labour policies, to help families with dependent children. The ISTAT data, the data from Caritas that we have broken down in the Commission, must be put at the basis of all reasoning. The report on poverty disturbs us, but it also shows us the way forward, in a sharing of the instrument that we are going to approve that tells us what is the possibility that we are facing. The alliance against poverty also suggested keys to interpretation, not only of the phenomenon, but also of its solution, suggesting a multi-year plan against poverty, but also telling us not to stop the reform. The reform does not fix everything, because the issue of poverty is complex, but it begins to do so, at last, as our rapporteur said before. This is because it inserts a universalistic measure that had never been before: do we mean it? Finally, an instrument is inserted that overcomes all the failed attempts of these years: a universalistic measure, with gradual enlargement of the audience. It's a few two billion, but in the meantime there are two billion. We are committed, in the next law of stability, to increasing the position. Labour policies, then, aimed at combating unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. It is today that the calls for Youth Guarantee have come out and there are resources. It is necessary to intertwine the paths, as provided for by this law delegation, and overcome the vicious circles. It is easy, much easier, to produce a moralistic approach. There are the greedy bankers, there are the vitalities (which are no longer there) and then there is the rain, the government thief. Such an approach is much simpler. Unfortunately, however, poverty is a real social emergency, because in this country it has increased more than in others. In particular, the increase was between 2008 and 2013, with slight corrections in recent years. Italy has among the highest rates of boys who are in that extravagant and serious condition of having neither opportunity for study nor opportunity for work. These are the new poor, with whom we have made another intervention. The delegation, which includes these and other measures on which the Parent Senator related, thus inserts a universal measure, the income of inclusion, to be guaranteed uniformly throughout the national territory, useful to combat poverty, understood as being impossible to dispose of the whole of goods and services. A single measure at national level, subject to the effective verification of the means and the adherence to a personalized project of activation and social and occupational inclusion, aimed at freeing and the condition of freedom. The scope of the delegation is well defined. I shall conclude by saying that I am convinced that this delegation is supported. We can further improve and strengthen this possibility that we have finally given ourselves an organic intervention on a subject of great importance to our community and, above all, to the younger generations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u73	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u74	Mr President, the question is: who and what is the legislator? An arrogant, divisive, lying cunning, once a lion, another fox? This is a very ancient conception of the one who must be the legislator or the politician on duty. And we took this model with us and unfortunately we still see some trascichi. This model is what, mixed with immorality, destroyed our country. So every time we ask ourselves, President: why does nothing change? Why is there a hole under my house (starting from the most trivial and simple examples) and my municipality says that there is no money and on the other side then we see that actually, when the state wants it, the money finds it? We were born for city survival. In a sense, the 5 Star Movement exists for survival, we were born for it. When I read these measures, or rather when I read the title of these measures, I was happy that we could finally speak seriously in Italy about economic measures in favour of the latter. Then I started reading what you proposed, because of course I said to myself: "But don't forget if they give us this satisfaction!" That then, I say, in politics, the one with the capital "p" should not simply give or not give satisfaction to a political part, but there is a people to be satisfied: this is politics, the one with the capital "p". Therefore, it is necessary to put aside the issues, especially when considering measures concerning the country, what can be the income of citizenship. You wanted to make your own measure for an issue that someone might call purely political. I wish it were a political question: it was a purely tactical and media issue, because you wanted to shift your attention from the country's problem, that of 10 million poor people, to televisions, to which you would say: We have done the measure on poverty; we in the PD have done it, because two billion are few, but we have done it. Then next time we'll do it better! It's always a next time! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]] It is true and we were born for this: we were born to survive your next times. The problem is now and now. I then read your provision. I read it to you, because it is also nice, because then it is a proxy: next time, we disappoint. But the delegation that you are going to make goes to intersect with several other measures that must be adopted and several other interpretations that each body is called to express with respect to the measures that should be adopted. So you know what's gonna happen? Nothing's gonna happen again. Then perhaps, even if nothing has been done, if you are here in the next parliamentary term - hoping that you will no longer be there - you will say that you have allocated EUR 1 billion, although perhaps it is less than what is being allocated today, that is, a figure that is not even EUR 2 billion, but EUR 1.8 billion, perhaps, in 2019. You will also say that next time you will do better: there is always a next time. I now want to read some passages of the legislation. Of course, in article 1, paragraph 1, go to mention the principles of our Constitutional Charter, contained in the second paragraph of Article 3: In order to help remove the economic and social obstacles that restrict the freedom and equality of citizens and the full development of the person, to combat poverty and social exclusion and to extend the protection provided by the social policy system....................................................................................... That's nice! I'm almost crying, because it's really moving. Too bad, however, that they are just empty words, because going forward in reading it turns out that the provision becomes so cumbersome, that nothing will be done about it. I want to make it clear that the provision on the citizenship income of the 5 Star Movement, which we have been proposing for two years and which you have not wanted to bring to the attention of this House, does not mean giving money to idleness. You will certainly be wondering how it is possible, since on television you are pursuing the idea that citizenship income cannot be given, because then people stay at home and do not go to work. "Help, there's the 5 Star Movement!" That's what you say. The citizenship income of the 5 Star Movement is not right to idleness, but involves obligations: I give you money, but you don't stay at home. Get up from the chair, come down every day and there will finally be state intervention, thanks to the two billion euros we put as a post within the measure on citizenship income. We will run the state and services for public work and each will have its own tutor, which will help each person to seek work. If at that time, possibly, there is no job that suits that person, it is sent to take free training courses, offered by the State. And if there were no training courses, he would go to help his own community: there are always elderly people who may need someone to go shopping for them, or the municipality needs to remove the weeds. So the citizenship income of the 5 Star Movement is a stimulus to work and it is a way to listen to people, who no longer have work and can not stay at home to vegetate. Be careful: we must listen to these people. Colleagues, I don't even believe anyone who tells me that you don't understand how society works, because you've gone away. It's not like that: you people understand society, only that you're deaf! CARDINALI (PD). Stop! PUGLIA (M5S). So I no longer accept that I am told that you no longer have your feet on the ground, because your feet on the ground are on the ground. It is therefore necessary to understand these people, because at the moment they get away from the world of work they go into depression. These are people who no longer value themselves, and this also affects families. We cannot, therefore, let these people be alone and abandoned, but with the citizenship income of the 5 Star Movement they will have a state that welcomes them. The citizenship income of the 5 Star Movement is a stimulus to work, even for companies that want to, in fact, hire these people. Some might think that a person who takes citizenship income then goes to work in black. This is not the case, or rather it might, but we first introduce a heavy penalty: if you have taken the income of citizenship illegitimately, I will take it away from you for life. If you do not want to go to work, the first, the second and the third time - my lord - the first time I can also understand it, the second also but the third time, if you do not go to work the moment the State finds you a job, it means that you do not want to go to work, so I take away your citizenship income. This is the stimulus to the work of the 5 Star Movement's citizenship income, it is not idle income but it is an incentive to work, to become a citizen of a society again, of a state that listens to you. It is no longer possible, in fact, to leave 10 million Italians in a state of absolute silence. President. - I shall close my speech, although that was a premise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, I'll give you a minute to finish. The premise may be developed on other occasions. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to end my speech by leaving this House a wish: I know very well that you will never do so, however, when the 5 Star Movement is a majority, we will ask for a hand to solve Italy's problems because we are not interested in color but are interested in ideas. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u75	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure before the House today is not that of the 5 Star Movement that I have heard a lot about. I will enter into the merit of the provision that we realize today because dreams are beautiful, utopias also, but we of the Democratic Party are standing on the ground. We have not yet understood where the 5 Star Movement - of which I have heard the friend and colleague Puglia who made a very folkloristic intervention, in my opinion - believes that we can find the resources. We discuss with the resources that are there with our characteristic of being concrete and, luckily for us, the Democratic Party has a background of good administrators who come from the real world, from the municipalities, from the Provinces and from the Regions. We are 40% women and, I dare say, 70-80 percent administrators who have well managed our Italy, our Regions, our Municipalities and therefore we also know how to deal with poverty. We are well aware of the existing system, therefore of the resources given, with the complexity that exists, with the fragmentation that exists, with the fact that the referendum has not passed - and this also complicates things very much, let's face it - we, with this concreteness, continue. We have envisaged the introduction of a national measure to combat poverty and social exclusion (as part of the delegation), the reorganization of welfare benefits aimed at combating poverty, the strengthening of the coordination of social services interventions. I would add that we are already thinking about the implementing decrees, indeed we are already acting because, you will see, we will surprise you with special effects: you will see them soon, much earlier than you think, because we are serious people, very serious and we do not sell smoke. AIROLA (M5S). Consip! FAVERO (PD). These rules are part of a framework of social and welfare measures approved following the severe economic crisis that began in 2007. Since the beginning of the crisis, according to ISTAT, people in absolute poverty in Italy have increased by 155%. In 2007 there were 1.8 million, today there are 4.6 million. But the crisis has affected the family (and that is why we turned to the family in which children are present) because in ten years, from 2005 to 2015, the share of the family in absolute poverty, measured by looking at the consumption of families, has doubled. In families with two or more children, the increase in poverty was about five times higher than in the national average. They have fallen into poverty not only families of unemployed and unemployed, but also families where someone works, but they bring home a single income that is not enough to bring out from poverty the whole family, the so-called working poor. According to the latest ISTAT data, there are estimated to be 1,528,000 households living in absolute poverty. We also know that one out of three Italian children is at risk of poverty and social hardship has now gone beyond low income levels if it is true that, according to ISTAT, in 2014, about 650,000 families were registered on the waiting list for social housing and over 50,000 homeless people. It is true that so many signs - such as those of job loss - have been underestimated and we have seen policies for the continuous postponement of adequate and innovative measures - which were but were fragmented - to combat poverty, such as the one currently under consideration. On the contrary, in my view, in the wrong way, policies to contain expenditure have taken absolute priority. There was a strong sign in 2008-2009 with the purchase card, transformed into the social card in 2014. Finally, in 2013, the Ministry of Labour presented economic support for active inclusion (SIA), which followed its own process and which came to give concrete help to 70,000 poor families, in which on average two minor children live. It is a first bridge, waiting for a structural measure of universal character. This measure has been accompanied over the years by many others of income support for families whose ISEE did not exceed certain thresholds, such as the 80 euro bonus for employees, the baby bonus for the new born and the Asdi, unemployment allowance for those who were still in this situation after the use of the other social shock absorbers planned and adhered to a customized project for occupational inclusion. Meanwhile, significant initiatives by associations and bodies to combat poverty have emerged and developed in civil society. In particular, I am thinking of the Alliance against Poverty in Italy which, at the initiative of ACLI and Caritas, has managed to aggregate many social and trade union organizations. Finally, several regions have also taken initiatives in the fight against poverty. I felt it was necessary to make this framework clear that we did not start from scratch both from the point of view of the measures adopted and the resources used. Through the fourth report on the budget of the Italian social security system drawn up by the Technical and Scientific Committee of Social Itineraries, recently presented, we know that the total expenditure on social protection and its financing from contributory and tax revenue, both at state and regional level, gives an overall picture that shows a really high expenditure, with a strong growth of the purely welfare expenditure, whose financing indicates an important redistribution of resources. These factors may represent vulnerabilities for our welfare system. In 2015, total expenditure on pensions, health, active and passive labour policies, social assistance was 447.3 billion, equal to 54.13 percent of all public expenditure, including interest on debt. In relation to GDP, i.e. all the wealth produced in the country, social spending weighed 27.34%. For 2014, Eurostat indicated that total social expenditure in Italy amounted to 30% of GDP, beaten only by Denmark, France and Finland. We have even surpassed Sweden, a country that has always been recognised as an important commitment to these policies. According to the OECD, again for 2014, social expenditure as a percentage of total government expenditure amounts to 55.8%, and we are exceeded only by Denmark. In the light, therefore, of the experience gained and of the experiments carried out, of the results achieved and to be achieved, of the proposals elaborated by institutional subjects and associations and, finally, of the important work carried out by territorial and local authorities in the social field, the Renzi Government has decided to put in place a structural and systematic measure of contrast to poverty, really filling a lack of our country. The Renzi Government must be acknowledged to have been the first Executive to do this, after years when interest in the matter had come guiltily less. With this aim in mind, the 2016 Budget Act established the approval of one or more legislative measures aimed at intervening in the areas I described in the preamble. The measure also aims to develop the National Plan against Poverty, provided for in the 2015 Stability Act - therefore, there is a path - with an extension of the audience of beneficiaries of social inclusion income (REIS), conditional on the ISEE and adherence to social and work inclusion projects, about which my colleague Pezzopane, who preceded me, and also the rapporteur, whom I thank again. The REIS will replace the SIA and will be intended for families in difficulty but also for those fifty-five years of age who lose their jobs. The resources amount to 1.6 billion for 2017, but will be 1.8 billion for the following years, covering at least 400,000 families by the end of the year. We know that there is still a great deal to be done: there are still categories of people excluded and aspects not included in the measure. We have tried, then, to commit the government with agendas that have been accepted in the Commission, for example, to avoid the risk of the so-called poverty trap. I myself have tabled an agenda, which has been accepted, in order to prevent the expected benefit from becoming a disincentive to the acceptance of work by people with low or zero incomes; I considered it necessary to provide for the provision of a quota for an initial period of time if the beneficiaries access the labour market but cannot afford to lead a free and dignified life. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with the approval - I hope quickly - of the measure, our institutions put the social issue back at the centre of national policy, after years of disinterest and reduction of funds. Have we not put 450 million in a non-self-sufficiency fund that was zeroed and we have yet to increase it? That's not social money, is it? Is it not a commitment that we have made with families, above all, and have honored it? We are people - I repeat - very serious, and we show this here in this House as well as in the Commissions, with our continued commitment, our presence and our continued faith. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] Therefore, we have done not only an increase in appropriations but also the development of an effective and innovative strategy to combat poverty, based on a solidarity model (which comes from our Municipalities, our Provinces and Regions that we are still ruling well) that can be an example for all our European partners. [[Applause from the PD Group and from the government benches]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u77	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u78	Mr President, I very much appreciated - as I think everyone here appreciates - the enthusiastic speeches of my fellow Members who preceded me, in particular this last speech, those of Senator Pezzopane and the rapporteur, Mrs Parente, who have made a thorough examination of the bill. I shall therefore confine myself to a few essential considerations and be brief. Of course, this draft law is a response to Article 3 of the Constitution, as Mrs Pezzopane has said: it contains rules on the fight against poverty, it responds to the need to give serious answers to the integration and reintegration of people into work and society, and especially to families in situations of poverty and social exclusion. The fight against poverty requires policies capable of affecting the collaboration between the State, Regions, Municipalities and territorial areas and requires a strong integration between them. It is, as I said, an answer to one of the cornerstones of our Constitution. The minimum income cannot therefore exhaust the fight against poverty in itself; complex measures are needed, another inclusive philosophy is needed to achieve a result of real contrast, as a guarantee of social inclusion. On the priority scale, in order to determine beneficiaries and benefits within the limits of the resources of the Fund for the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the bill correctly identifies the economic condition of the household, which must be able to lead a decent standard of living and to have the goods and services necessary for it. This is the so-called - and several times mentioned - income of inclusion, as defined by Article 1, paragraph 1, which indicates the measure of benefits to be guaranteed uniformly throughout the national territory; benefits mainly in support of parenthood, linked in particular to those who are in conditions of disability and disability. Special attention is given from the article to families with children or with serious disabilities, or with pregnant women, or with unemployed people over the age of fifty-five, as has already been said. In this context, national operational programmes or regional operational programmes, provided for by the European Funds 2014-2020, will be usable, but the central element of the delegation is interinstitutional cooperation, which provides for the development of customised projects taking into account the actual disposable income, expenditure capacity indicators and the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE). The relief from poverty will take place through projects, arranged in a synergistic way by a complex multidisciplinary team, consisting of the territorial areas that will collaborate with employment centres, health companies, training bodies; the projects will cover health protection, housing policies and education, after a multidimensional assessment of the need. It is interesting to note that project beneficiaries will participate in the design (this is important); projects of which the objectives will be defined and the results monitored. Following these checks will be decided the renewal of the planning or suspension and the forfeiture of the benefit. I believe that it is important that the Government provides for the establishment of a coordinating body for social interventions and services at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the establishment of guidelines to ensure greater homogeneity at national level in the provision of services. A key role is given to the social partners, to the bodies in the third sector, as an indispensable support, both in the formulation of hypotheses and in the production of analyses to combat poverty. The third sector and the social private sector are therefore called upon to develop concrete designs and guarantors of the social policies and rights of all citizens to be well, to live dignifiedly. The objective of the draft delegation is therefore an action of substantial change in the expectations and quality of life of the weak classes, in the hope of achieving results equal to those of other countries in Europe, such as Denmark, Holland and Sweden, where social policies have achieved, in very small contexts and not comparable for complexity to those of our country, optimal levels of employment and development. It is, therefore, a reform project, a non-social or pietistic vision, capable of relaunching the income of families, and that after so many years intends to promote a change, not easy, certainly not immediate (no one believes in fairy tales), but finally able to respond, with a new attention to social and after years of disinterest, to what other governments have not been able to achieve. In this regard, I refer to what Senator Favero said about the commitment of the Renzi Government's social spending. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u79	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u80	Mr President, we are talking with incredible emphasis on issues that are not so new, in the sense that we are already dealing with assistance policies. Who's up against them? Local authorities: Municipalities, Provinces and Regions. We can make a judgment. What kind? Dear? Probably yes, or perhaps not, as the Italy system works a little bit like a leopard, with more efficient geographical areas and others maybe less. Let me ask you a question. Why also delete those welfare policies that have demonstrated efficiency and capacity? Why clean up the good ones too? We have in hand a measure produced by the Renzi Government, whose philosophical approach was that of centralization. Do the care policies work somewhere? I don't care. I want to focus everything. We know the left's position on social issues: the left hates wealth to the point that has always fought it, while we - vice versa - would like to fight and perhaps defeat poverty. These are the two different perspectives from which we look at the same issue. But let us analyze what you have done and which you support with this great, fake enthusiasm. You have quantified EUR 600 million plus an additional EUR 200 million linked to the Poverty and Social Exclusion Fund, i.e. less than EUR 1 billion. For 2017, we have EUR 1 billion from the Poverty and Social Exclusion Fund. I repeat, a billion. Perfect. We also have the numbers at our disposal. According to ISTAT, in Italy families in absolute poverty are 1.5 million. You know what the concept of absolute poverty means. Let us now focus not on families, but on people: the people in absolute poverty are 4,400,000. Colleagues, I invite you to set up on your mobile the operation of division of one billion euros for 4,400,000: the solution is that to every absolute poor we will be able to pay less than 19 euros per month, that is about 63 cents per day. Support with an exaggerated emphasis a measure that will solve the problem of about 4 million poor Italians, providing to each of them 63 cents of euros per day. You can't even drink a coffee with 63 cents of euros all over the country. On the contrary, you are very, very generous with the welcome of foreigners. This government has managed to allocate 35 euros per day for each individual foreigner. I repeat, 35 euros per day for the reception of people who are here maybe even without title (you will see whether they are refugees, illegals or other). The social value that this majority, with great heat and with great waste of energy, is giving to the indigent Italian citizen is 63 cents a day. Estimates have been made: the unified State-Regions Conference states that at least 7 billion will be needed to ensure essential levels of performance; other regional studies, perhaps much more in-depth, provide that 7 billion, in addition to the billion there is, are not yet sufficient to address the issue. Therefore, if you really want to deal with it, you will have to tell us where you will go to get the additional resources. From rationalization of welfare benefits? From there little or nothing is obtained; in fact, perhaps a war between the poor will be waged. Another criticism of us. The delegation started from an initial concept of selective universalism. You also wanted to remove the term "selective" and this means that you will do basically rain interventions. So the benefit will be almost zero, and in addition it will also benefit classes that may not even need it. This will eventually lead to some sort of low-income citizenship even to those who do nothing. We are opposed to this model whereby the public must also do everything for those who do not do anything to find employment and work. After that, everyone can think the way they think. We have a version of the 5 Star Movement, according to which the State should do and give everything, and we have a more laysez-faire and liberal vision of the market; we would be by a middle way: the only serious thing is to try to develop a civic sense of citizens giving them the possibility as well as legal tools to be able to participate in the life of the country in which they live. Article 36 Constitution states that 'The worker shall be entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work'. I repeat, he is entitled to a proportionate remuneration: we talk about remuneration and not about prebenda without any compensation. Also because the minimum income does not solve the problem of poverty; if ever it is solved by the implementation of jobs, employment, the general wealth of the country, and that is where we of the North League, the wretched minimal force in Parliament, would like to aim: win and defeat poverty only if the game plays it on the field of economic growth. I'm moving another criticism. You have included as evidence of the means the ISEE method (indicator of the equivalent economic situation). In this regard too, we in the League say that this is not good, because this indicator is not linked to income, but to wealth. The house, however, does not give income, but it is the result of the savings of a family; it is a virtue and legitimate aspiration of the citizens to ensure a dignified future, to accumulate the savings in the essential good, that is the roof under which to live. Try feeding on the bricks of a house owned, those that do not give income; those do not have to go into the valuations of wealth at all. Another issue that puzzles us is the following. True, this is a proxy, but if you go to read, it grants six months to the government to provide. During these six months, four ministries must be agreed: the Ministries of Labour, Economics and Finance, Public Administration and Health. With the times running, since the majority shareholder of this Government at this time seems also unreliable, that there is a congress in progress, so the attention is all about other issues, that at this point there are problems of government keeping and that the issue of electoral laws also arises, I do not think that there is much willingness, time and attention to be devoted to other issues. The desire to centralise is another difference from our proposals on assistance. Centralize, says the Government; regionalize, the League continues to say, with all the amendments that we have been able to table, also because it is not the federalist system as such that says that this is the best system to administer but, right on the test bench, the more you get away from the problems and the less you can solve them. Don't criticize us. We would have liked at least this measure to be intended exclusively for Italian citizens, since we must respond to them, either to Community citizens or to those in some way resident, but in a stable manner, in this country. How long? We have been saying for ten years or at least five years, as the European Court of Justice has established when a British measure was challenged restricting access to social benefits to those who have not been resident for five years. Let's at least apply this. [[Call the president back.]] I have concluded, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u81	I'll give you another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u82	DIVINE (LN-Aut). That's the way it is, he can't stand. Maybe it won't even come true. We believe that it impoverishes the country, discourages people from entering and solves almost nothing, just as nothing has resolved the other manoeuvre that this majority has brought to this House, the famous EUR 80, which we have recovered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, you've run out of time. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, give me ten seconds to finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ten seconds. DIVINE (LN-Aut). It is precisely today's news that two million people who took the 80 euros have to give them back: the charlatan's maneuver that ruled the country that day. On this second maneuver we can say that, as the North League, we are extremely negative. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u83	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u86	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, McDonald's, Stroili Oro, Adecco, Sisal, Burger King, La Rinascente, Manpower, Juventus, Lazio, Fiorentina, Chievo: all these companies use vouchers to pay their own staff. Attention: they are not occasional jobs; they are people who work there every day, are clerks, stewards, stewardesses and are paid as if they were casual workers. This kind of life, that of those who are paid in this way, is a life that is used and thrown down; it is a life that is destined to a poor old age, because you calculate pension levels around 200 euros per month for those who live on vouchers. Mr Sacconi, Mr Ichino, who is defending this method of payment for work, I wonder how they would feel if at the end of the session someone would join them and say to them: "Tomorrow you don't need to come, to the limit we call you us." This is the kind of life that these people are subjected to. Monday, in Palermo, I saw some workers, who told about their precarious life, always precarious. The government must set the date of these referendums, the two referendums of the CGIL that remain at work, because vouchers are an absolutely barbaric invention, which must be eliminated from the lives of normal workers. If they are to be maintained for those who do occasional work, at rare times in their lives, well; but they cannot be used to pay employees. That must be clear. In the same way I highlight the second referendum, about which we speak less, with which we ask to extend to the contracting entity the responsibilities of the company that contracts the works. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). It is essential that this should happen, because every time a job is externalised and any responsibility is taken away, workers are taken and subjected to incognito. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u87	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-774.ana.u88	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, 2 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
