ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Ironic applause from Senator Albano.]] I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u9	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2583, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over and the debate on the question of trust raised by the government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u16	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, after a few months we are discussing a new economic maneuver. I should actually have to correct myself by saying that we are now ratifying a new confidence in the Government: once again, in fact, in this House, an armored and ineminable text has arrived, on which to lower the ax of the vote of confidence, a practice that will be carried out today. Beyond the irony, I would first of all like to see a methodological problem. This decree-law, presented by Minister Padoan as a mere technical correction of the budget required by Europe for the value of 3.4 billion euros, has gradually undergone a Kafkian metamorphosis. The text at our examination resembles more the financial laws of the first Republic than a corrective surgery of the public accounts. It is so elephantic and uneven that it is tiring even to pull the strings of its content. On the other hand, Mr President, there is an indicator which, if taken into account, is difficult to mislead: the more uneven an intervention, the more an omnibus, the more the English terms contained in the text and in the reports that illustrate it abound. In fact, in this measure we start with the split payment. Senator Latorre, who is doing English lessons - he has gone away now, because he had English lessons - could help me and help us. This split payment is described by the Commission as an anti-evasion measure, but I fear it will result in a real liquidity tax for businesses, professionals and suppliers of goods and services for public administration. Then we move on to the so-called web tax, which is not a real tax, but rather an agreed one that heals the litigation between the State and the multinationals that have not paid the due taxes to our country. So you get to the tax on short rentals, better known as "Airbnb tax." Even in this case it is better not to be wrong, otherwise it is done as those who, to give themselves a tone, instead of saying Italsider, said "Italsaider." This tax risks not only stifling one of the few sectors - referred to as sharing economy - that still shows signs of vitality in our economy, but also preventing Italy from overcoming the current receptive inadequacy compared to demand and international standards. Then there are the increases in excise duties - they never fail - and the safeguard clauses on VAT, regarding which I want to remember, because I think it is necessary, that the former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, at the end of his mandate, told us to "be serene": obviously they are still there, like a mannaja ready to fall on the already very timid signs of recovery of consumption of Italians. In essence, in this maneuver there is no thread that goes in the direction of development, which remains a magic word to be evoked in advertising slogans without being later implemented in the legislative texts, much less in the indicators of the real economy. Gentlemen of the Government, where are the measures in favour of small entrepreneurs, free professionals and traders? From what article in this long text can those who raise a screen, open a company or carry out an office with difficulty get an incentive to move forward and continue or return to investing? What should inspire confidence and optimism in entrepreneurs who, just to say one, are still waiting at least for the IRES cut, promised more than two years ago? Of course, the lack of a red thread also has some small conveniences. On paper, industry studies are finally abolished, bureaucratic monsters that made it more convenient for freelance professionals to limit turnover rather than increase it. This is a positive fact, but let us point out that, after what happened with Equitalia, we must hope that the new indices of reliability will not be limited to changing the name of a substance that does not change. The doubt is legitimate: we would not want, even in this case, someone to tell us - and this is also history and it must be remembered, however paradoxical - "cucucu," the sector studies are no longer there, and then find ourselves in a few months with bitter surprises. Beyond this aspect, in any case, it is difficult to find in these 67 articles some measures to support the entrepreneurial fabric. Nor can it be argued that development can pass through a spending review of 460 million cuts for the Ministries. Throughout a parliamentary term, we have cut down mainly Commissioners on spending reviews; now this declaration of intent, which is not accompanied by immediate implementation measures, suggests a more aesthetic intervention than of substance. Less than a year after the end of the legislature, in fact, it is difficult for the Italian Dicasteries to demonstrate independently that capacity for rationalization of expenditure that they have not demonstrated in the last three years. This omnibus decree-law plastically reflects, to me it seems, the changing electoral requirements not so much of the PD, but of its secretary, traceable in the favors dispensed to both, seasoned with lacked simplifications, cuts to local public transport and social funds, postponement of the sharing by the Regions to tax revenue and, consequently, further postponement of the implementation of fiscal federalism. The latter, on the other hand, if flexibly structured, according to the peculiarities of the different territories, represents the only serious way to empower the government of the local authorities without attacking their autonomy or returning to a centralism that no longer has any historical possibility to assert itself. Gentlemen of the Government, I will now open the chapter on vouchers. I believe that it is also necessary to look for a minimum of seriousness on this issue and not to allow ourselves to go to preconceived criticism. I believe that the exact opposite of what should have been done has been done on this ground. If vouchers are considered to be a useful tool for regulating occasional and occasional jobs - and this is our opinion - they should have been defended by facing the referendum campaign, because sometimes in politics you have to have the courage of your own ideas, even when you start from disadvantaged positions. Mr President, when we took a stand on the constitutional referendum on 4 December, we were considered to be melancholic lunatics, because it was assumed that that referendum would end with a statement by the supporters of the reform. Things have been reversed, because in politics the arguments - the good arguments - have a weight. Not everything is tactical and not everything is communication. The vouchers should therefore have been defended and, in order not to be deaf in the face of the critical issues, it would have been necessary to propose a rationalization that would make this instrument more functional and prevent excessive use of it. Instead, we have chosen to avoid the judgment of the citizens and now, rather than rationalization, we are proposing a solution that seems more complex and cumbersome than the previous one. A solution legitimately criticized by those in favour of the repealing referendum, but at the same time also for those who, like us, expected this instrument to be defended and made more efficient and now finds itself with a surplus of bureaucracy. Any compromise in this country is made by increasing the bureaucracy and difficulties for citizens. And this is a great chapter, which involves school, university and economy, which we should have the courage to open. Finally, I think there is an absentee in this maneuver: the South. After the season of the commercial pacts, which ended up in the void of pre-referendarian propaganda, concrete measures to relaunch the economy of the Mezzogiorno were not found here either. I have to say that this seems to be a stopping point, because I acknowledge Mr De Vincenti's efforts at least to have a policy and therefore also to be the subject of criticism, with respect to the absolute void on this issue. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I would like to ask you one more minute to finish my speech. As we have repeatedly called for, we believe that in order to attract productive capital to the Mezzogiorno, it is essential to deal with the European Commission with a plan of tax advantage, which is really effective, which helps the South to bridge the gap which, together with other conditions of context, does not allow this area of the country to spread today. It would appear from press indiscretions that in a separate and subsequent decree, approved at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, the establishment of special economic zones in the Mezzogiorno of Italy was proposed. If that were the case, it would come to be said: finally! However, I wonder if this would not have been the most appropriate forum to address this issue. As far as we are concerned we have been proposing it for a long time, we have already drawn up a bill and a feasibility study of a measure of this kind and, if the indiscretions are confirmed, we hope to be able to contribute constructively during the conversion of a further decree-law. Mr President, I am really starting to conclude. To be honest, I must also welcome with satisfaction the recognition of the special economic zones for the benefit of the places affected by the earthquake in Central Italy. This too, gentlemen of the government, was a request that we had made with insistence from the very first moment. We would have hoped for a battle in Europe to broaden the scope of the intervention, but the direction we have taken is the one we want. More generally, however, with regard to policies to respond to the emergency of the earthquake and, above all, to reconstruction, it must also be stressed here that the fragmentary measures proposed by the two successive governments and disseminated in at least four decree-laws and in as many bills have certainly not provided our fellow citizens with a picture of clarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u17	Thank you, Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u18	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). I shall conclude, Mr President. We have done nothing to draw from this drama an opportunity for the modernization of the country. Mr President, allow me to add one more thing before I say that we will vote no. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Quagliariello, he's gone through enough time at his disposal. Save something for your next speech. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). You are right, Mr President, but give me one more second. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, Senator. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). I would also ask the presidency of the Senate to consider changing the subject of the Commission of Inquiry whose institution has been approved, because today a Commission of Inquiry into the earthquake in L'Aquila, without any comparison with what has been done in subsequent dramas, really makes no sense. Thank you for your patience, Mr President. [[Applause from Senators Bilardi and Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u21	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, some people in this House seemed surprised when they learned that the question of trust was going to be raised, but in fact two months ago it was already known that it would be put on this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] But the question of trust was not raised because we were late and there was an urgent need to adopt a measure that expired: no, they put it out of fear. Among other things, since we did not make the tax decree in the Senate at first reading and we worked quickly, also since the budget law was passed quickly and the Senate could not touch anything, it was thought that, being an economic issue, at least the maneuver would touch the Senate. But no: the government decided to entrust it to the House at first reading, because it was afraid of the numbers in the Senate. I am sorry, Mr President, to see that the President of the Fat Senate, who should protect this branch of Parliament, because the House and Senate have equal dignity, has not imposed himself to say that the maneuver should have been attributed to the Senate. At this juncture, I should like to thank the President of the 5th Commission, of whom I am a member: at least, of course, within the limits of his function of political belonging, he has tried to do something, and he has said so. Instead, the President of the Senate zero: not received. Let us turn to the matter of urgency. This must be done because we must respond to the comments made by the European Union. But here too I recall that, in October, at the hearing of the budget law - since the European Union was already saying that not all the numbers were returning - I myself asked Minister Padoan if he had any plan B. His answer was of this kind: No, I'm sure of what I'm doing and no corrective manoeuvre will be needed. I happen to be doing the corrective maneuver today. There is a question that is often put on television. Renzi goes on television and says: We are the only government that has reduced taxes and we continue to reduce them, because that is our action. Well, what do we see in this provision instead? A tax increase. The re-determination of the ACE base, which was an aid to economic growth, which was giving some small results, Renzi decided that it is not good and then imposed taxes: in this way it will recover revenue of 600 million per year from companies. And this measure will hit a quarter of our companies. I have seen Gentiloni Silveri euphoric because the estimates of GDP have been revised upwards. Yes, it is a pity that, if we go to see the ranking, Italy is always at the bottom of the ranking of the Countries in recovery. In addition, Renzi always says that taxes are not increased, that, on the contrary, have been reduced; but now, to make cash, we also go to take the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises with the split payment. We are talking about 1.4 billion a year, according to Renzi, and forgive me if I keep saying Renzi even if the President of the Council is Gentiloni Silveri, because we know well who is behind this Government. So you're gonna cash in with the split payment, you're gonna take away company liquidity, and then you forget that these companies should have over 64 billion from public administration. So, in addition to paying the late companies, they are also told that they will no longer receive VAT. The cigarette tax, then, I would understand if it had been imposed for health reasons and instead it was thought because we must continue to collect from the citizens. Despite Renzi saying that he does not impose new taxes, the citizens will find a new tax on the electricity bill. Here again it is an indirect tax, but it will be the citizens who will pay it every month or every two months. A further tax was imposed on citizens' holidays. People have worked all year round, go on vacation and have to pay the tourist tax that will now increase. Another indirect taxation, which I consider to be a tax for commuters, even if it is not properly so, is that which will follow the decrease in the local transport fund. In fact, who do you think it will affect? It will create discomfort for the people who have to move for work, who will not have a proper transport service and will therefore have to find alternatives to move, which will mean a disbursement. Let us now turn to another important issue: local authorities. A measure on local authorities was necessary because, again, Renzi has created a mess with the Provinces. It has taken decisive action on this issue but has left many Provinces in trouble and now it is useless to continue, year after year, to give them a little content, authorising them to approve the budget by way of derogation or allocating 60 million contributions to carry out fundamental functions. The government must become aware of what it wants to do, it cannot leave the issue undetermined and prevent the Provinces from making a minimum of programming. We cannot allow the Provinces to fail to play their fundamental role, which the citizens have decided to allow them to play. Another aspect of this measure is simplification for local authorities. Yes, there is something, perhaps a less document to be provided by the municipalities, but let us look at all the other tasks that local authorities have and, above all, the tasks of the citizens. For example, citizens, in order to be entitled to make VAT compensation, must now turn to a professional for certification and so, again, it is the citizens who have to pay money. Or think of the further postponement of the entry into force of the standard costs and requirements of the Regions: according to the statistics, this measure would result in a huge entry for the State and instead it continues to postpone. The government has finally decided to include the rules for the earthquake, but I remember that we had already proposed them in the previous decrees: why didn't you approve them there and not so late? What is wrong is the way to operate, because these continuous extensions of rules create confusion in the citizens and end up causing disorientation in these poor people who have already suffered the discomfort of the earthquake and may have lost a loved one, the home or the job. The state that should be a support is limited to promising rules or making extensions when, however, it was then remembered to increase the salary of the people involved in the earthquake of the Eagle of 2009. For these reasons, I declare our vote firmly opposed to the measure, but above all to the confidence of this Government, which absolutely does not deserve it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u24	MIGLIAVACCA (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I regret to say this, but this decree-law, which was born with objectives of adjustment of the public accounts shared by us and gradually transformed into an omnibus decree, contains a democratic vulnus that we cannot ignore. The vulnus is represented by the inclusion of new vouchers in the maneuver, an unacceptable choice in the method, because it is a circumventing of the referendary demand signed by more than three million citizens, and on the substance, because it fails the stated objective of combating undeclared work. It was the Government that decided on the complete abolition of vouchers, after having lost a year without starting any comparison on the referendar questions first with the promoters (the CGIL). If vouchers were to be ruled differently, another thing had to be done: to adopt a new discipline, not to repeal it, and if this new discipline did not exceed the reasons for the referendum, it had to be put to the vote of the citizens. By doing so, however, a serious precedent is introduced: the majority in turn will always be able to neutralize an unwelcome referendum by repealing the rule that was the subject of the referendum and then, with a few changes, re-introduce it a few days later. That's not good. Especially for a majority that refers to the center-left. On the substance, then, there was no regulatory vacuum. For businesses, in particular, there is a plurality of contractual instruments that ensure so-called flexibility: job administration, call work, part-time work, surrogate work and extra work. The introduction of new vouchers does not result from a lack of labour flexibility, but from the desire to reduce its cost by reducing safeguards and rights. Although new vouchers cost more than old people and provide higher social security coverage, the fundamental difference from contractual forms is the non-recognition of the thirteenth month, the end-of-course treatment (TFR), holidays, sickness and maternity. The new legislation also lends itself to abuse: there are three days to revoke the declaration of use, but in the absence of controls it can be said that the performance did not take place and pay it in black. It's not like it's fighting black work. That's the point. There is too much precariousness around, especially for young people. There is not just a shortage of work, too often there is a lack of dignity of work. There's humiliation. Without rights, without greater job stability, there will be no solid recovery in consumption or real growth. This tear could and had to be avoided. If we really wanted to re-discipline this matter, we had to do it with reasonable measures, starting with occasional work for families, with a specific measure, respectful of Parliament's prerogatives after a confrontation with the social partners and not with the rewording of an amendment, not subeminable, in a decree-law on which trust was placed both in the House and the Senate. For this reason we have said: remove the rule on vouchers and we vote for trust. In the 5th Commission we withdrew our amendments, including the one (which we were very keen on) opposed to yet another tax pardon, leaving only the one that was deleted on vouchers. If you want, the technical times for a final passage to the House were there; the Government and the majority, on the other hand, pulled right insisting on a divisive choice that others wanted, not us. Our dissent on vouchers does not prevent us from seeing some good things in the decree-law under consideration: the measures in favour of the earthquake areas, those for Municipalities and Provinces, even if in a still precarious and emergent framework; the measures to combat VAT evasion. I am certainly not referring to the condoning disguised with the breaking of disputes, nor certainly to the 8 million data given to a private person when all the Italian theater blows. We know the condition of the country: the economic recovery is still insufficient, exposed to the risks of new internal and external shocks. Investment growth and the fight against inequalities and poverty must be done without disrupting public finances and can be financed through the reduction of unproductive expenditure, a fairer distribution of the tax levy, and the fight against tax evasion. It would be good, then, to pass the budget law before the general elections, without jumping into the dark. In view of this appointment, our priority remains always the same, that is to face the popular discomfort: investment and not relief; stop to rain bonuses; labour rights to be rebuilt; tax progressiveness, school and public health to be relaunched. In other words, for us the next budget law must contain real news, it must have real changes. Then there are other urgent and relevant things to do in the coming months: the law on citizenship and the biological will. Rules of civilization already approved by the House concerning the lives of hundreds of thousands of citizens, who after a long and laborious work of mediation can qualify not a part, but the activity of Parliament. For us, the legislature and the government can come to a natural conclusion. It is possible; it can be done by reconstructing collaboration in the majority and dialogue with oppositions on essential democratic points such as electoral law and - as proposed by the PD's Parent Company - the revision of parliamentary regulations. But our responsibility cannot mean co-responsibility for forces that we do not share as a deception of the referendum. The Article 1 Group will not participate in the vote of confidence. This is the first time we have done so; it is a net distance that we are aware of, an obligatory choice or the only possible one not to surrender to the acceptance in block or to the refusal in block of the decree-law. Let us say no, therefore, to what we judge as forcing on vouchers, contrary to our constituent values: the dignity of work, democratic participation. At the same time, for the responsibility we feel towards the country, we leave an open door to choices, in method and merit, more shared in the future. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Faculty of Law of the University of Rome, La Sapienza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u28	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I come from the noble first Republic and I believe that you, Mr President, have not missed the previous speech and the fact that there is no majority in this Parliament. There is a majority group that has said that it does not vote for trust and has said so in strong and clear tones. It's a clean distance. President, I think you should inform the President of the Senate, because in the first Republic it was much less enough to open a crisis of government and because I do not think that here there is a government in Tarallucci and wine for which one day there is a majority and the next day there is the loophole to say that you do not take part in the vote to allow it to go on even if you do not share anything of what the Government does. This worries us, because it means that the government is under constant and perennial blackmail from someone who asks him to do what he says otherwise places difficulties and obstacles on the way. It is so true what I am saying, that the balance sheet of the last four years, which has been perilously economically lived, is that, at least from the point of view of the reforms to be done, the country has remained impaled. We were a group that, unlike the others of the bandages and prebende, was ready to support all the reforms to get the country out of the dry places in which someone brought it, but I see that all the reforms have remained on the stake because there is this blackmail and the Government is not free to carry out the necessary reforms to the country and that, in a time far, had led Italy to be the fifth economic power of the world. I remember the famous decree of Valentine's Day that the CGIL has always opposed, even if in hindsight he acknowledged to Craxi that he was right. Colleagues, GDP has grown at an average annual rate of 0.5% throughout the legislature. It is a flat encephalogram during the management of Enrico Letta and slightly better with the Renzi Government, but the prognosis remains reserved because it serves a strong Government. And today we have seen that this is not the case because there is no government at all, because a significant part of the majority said that they will not vote for the measure. By the end of the first quarter of 2013 household consumption was 59.5% of GDP, while today it stands at 60.3 percent. A few more zero commas, which is not enough. Even worse it went on investment, which practically remained on the stake, as it was 17.4 and today it is 17.3 percent. Why are there no investments? Because investment policy is not being made and the CGIL and the judiciary are being heard (which gives us a huge power, which prevents foreign investors from coming to invest in Italy). The criminal justice, malasanity and the Italian bureaucracy, which did not want to reform in any way, have led this country to languish. He only threw abroad, but in increasing distress. Its contribution to overall growth has declined since the beginning of the legislature, from around 3% to 1.8%. These figures explain the anemia. We have repeatedly focused on the causes involved: these are above all the lack of pro-growth (growth orientation) reforms, as economists say, starting with low corporate and overall productivity. The real handicap, however, was politics, with its inability to offer a picture of certainties, indispensable in order to channel individual energies towards a shared objective. There would have been a need for a strong and homogeneous government, with clear agendas, objectives and boundaries, which does not exist. If this drive fails, society breaks down. The small cabotage takes over and feeds the illusion that one can separate one's destinies from the more general ones. Yet, something should have taught us the crisis of 2011, with spreads skyrocketing (I am referring to the crisis that brought us Monti, Severino, Fornero and their uncivilized reforms, which have led back Italy). In the sinking of the Titanic did not save the passengers who occupied the first class cabins. Building a stronger horizon and government is therefore the first requirement. The second is really to deal with Europe, without rising shields and weather, but with the quiet force that comes from the belief that it is on the side of reason. Of course, Ciampi and Prodi have led us to an agreement on the devastating European regulations, but that does not mean that it must and can be corrected. The fiscal compact cannot continue to represent an insurmountable wall, at least until the crisis is definitely behind us. The European Parliament was aware of this when it proposed to the Commission the period of experimentation which is now coming to an end. Well, its results have been negative. If we look at the same dynamics as public debt, we can see how it has grown mainly because of austerity and not already because of the international financial crisis. I repeat, austerity caused public debt to grow. The explanation is simple, as demonstrated by the self-criticism, albeit late, of the International Monetary Fund itself. It was his chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, who demonstrated that we were right and that those calculations were wrong, because, in preparing the relevant treatments, he had neglected to consider the deflationary effect that excessive rigour caused, helping to depress the growth rate of GDP beyond measure. Therefore, we must not simply ask Europe to turn a blind eye and give ourselves more flexibility, but we must fight - we can do this - so that the relevant regulations (i.e. those of the fiscal compact) are not included immediately in the Treaties (and we can do this) and there is more time to check the results on the ground. We would thus return to the constraints laid down in the current legislation, to that 3% margin for debt that we will have to use productively. And that he must use a homogeneous and strong government, that has a real program and that is not always under blackmail. By bonuses and prebende, but public and private investment and reduction of the tax burden; by bureaucracy, yes to the reform of justice; yes, of course, to the reform of that regional health care, which feeds only the public debt. Here's the certainty that it serves to restart the country; a sort of medium-term programming that can count on certain resources from the beginning and not on the benevolence or almsgiving, always a little hairy, of Angela Merkel or, worse, of her Minister of the economy. Propositi per il futuro: I am aware of this. However, a strong government must have the strength to change the page. In order to achieve this, however, it is necessary from now on to lay down the most appropriate cognitive tools, to help create a collective consciousness, which is the prerequisite for any possible redemption, if we do not want the perspective to be the one indicated by the pages, which no one has read, even the Ministers sitting on the benches of the Government, about the diagnosis that the Monetary Fund has made and what the Governor of the Bank of Italy has written. The only certainty is that Italy cannot afford to grow to that one percent that has been indicated: it would burn other generations of young people, fuel an anger, a widespread discontent, sleepy - as evidenced by the last local elections - but not tamed. Our vote will therefore be against, but not for reasons of parliamentary tactics. A possible vote in favour would sound like an endorsement of the anemic policies so far followed by this weak Government; chloroform distributed to a patient with a serious illness with full hands. We therefore prefer to fully assume our responsibilities, even at the cost of appearing as those who go against the tide. We know, however, that at least in this case time is a gentleman; you will agree with us. Even more important, however, it is that all those who do not need sophisticated analyses to understand the real nature of this crisis, which is still far from being overcome, because they live it daily, on their own skin and on that of their families, the Italians who want the reforms of health, justice, the deburocratization especially to allow foreign investments in Italy. Otherwise we will be forced to perish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u31	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the conversion process of Decree-Law No 50 of 24 April 2017, in order to soften its content, the Government has been quick to define it as maneuver; a measure which has since taken the form of a genuine financial maneuver. A maneuver that has gone to sink with full hands in the identification of three new taxes and chapters from which to draw resources. From the point of view of redistribution, instead, we have seen the usual, for this majority tow of the Democratic Party, redistribution of electoral character and contingency, but decidedly not of a structural character. This time, however, we wanted to add the mockery: in fact, in the title we understand that there are also measures to promote development. Well, at the end of this parliamentary term and starting towards the beginning of a new one, we would have expected - also to welcome, if necessary, the will of the majority party in this Parliament to indicate the ways - to be able to understand what the guidelines are, what this majority imagines for the future of our country, what the measures to support development are. It has been said elsewhere and on another occasion that one of the fundamental elements of development should have been the Mezzogiorno of Italy. It has been said, even by colleagues who have spoken before me, that there could be a more comprehensive maneuver, with a forthcoming decree on the Mezzogiorno that identifies the ZES, the special economic zones, and the means of a tax advantage. Well, how does a government not have an overall, global and unified view of a problem? If you really believe that the development of the entire country passes above all and strongly through the development of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, how do you find on the one hand tools like the special economic zones and, on the other hand, to sign the pacts of the new ways of silk, identifying the axis of development for this way in the ports of Livorno and Trieste? In fact, in doing so, the centre of gravity of trade moves completely with the new giants of world production, which are India and China, totally above the axis of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, thus not absolving even that normal logic of drawing the greatest possible profit from these trades. The new silk routes cross the Mediterranean by virtue of the Suez Canal, which had to double the possibility of passage of the ships precisely for the increase of the productions. Well, instead of identifying the ports of the South, instead of identifying Sicily as a natural natural logistic platform of the Mediterranean, we will force the great ships that come from South-East Asia, China and India to enter the Adriatic and the Tyrrhenian and then return to the Mediterranean, so that with smaller ships they can supply the other zones of the European and African commerce. With this, the Government clearly shows that it has no interest in the development of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. With this, the Government shows that it adheres more to the business and financial logics than to those of overall development. We can create all the special economic zones that we want, but if there is no reason for production and opportunities to create new production and therefore new development and new employment, we will not have solved the problem and we will not have helped solve it either. The Mezzogiorno of Italy, which in a financial maneuver should have found, at least in the title, its own presence, continues to pay for choices of a national government absolutely far away and enemy compared to the needs of this territory, also in other aspects concerning international treaties with countries that face the Mediterranean basin. We continue to suffer unfair competition from agricultural production in other countries of the Mediterranean basin and do not move a finger for a revision of the treaties that has been promised several times. But what do you think our country should live on? If logistics and commerce must be cut off, if our agriculture, even that of the vanguard, cannot find protagonism because of unfair competition, how do you think you can save or contribute to the rebirth of this Mezzogiorno of Italy? You're without a plan. In these years of government you have followed only the high finance and are proof of the episodes of these last weeks, because your problem has always been the banks; not the banks as a tool for development, but as a high finance that must compensate itself and must survive. But do you not realize that we should talk about banks as regards the problems of access to credit, rather than the clearing operations? Still, you are only close to these great operations; your problems concern ILVA. We find in the solution of the ILVA the same Marcegaglia group that we find involved in the debts of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and we find it in a position of apparent participation of the Italian industry to the rescue of an industrial pole like that of the ILVA of Taranto, ready to parade for the benefit of the banking and financial system. Finance is not a thing of life; only very few people are enriched with finance. It's the job that saves our country! It's production that saves our country! And work and production and income in Italy do so by small and medium-sized enterprises and families; small and medium-sized enterprises and families that are absent from this decree-law that you call maneuverina and that defined as tools to facilitate the development of the country. The new taxes you introduce do not go in the direction of support for these sectors, which are fundamental; they do not go in the direction of support for agriculture. As we speak, measures of great simplicity could help, alleviate the discomfort and absolute lack of confidence that is affecting our small and medium-sized enterprise. I quote, for example, the issue of judicial auctions for homes. Houses for residential use are removed for 17-20,000 euros to people who have not been able to pay, at a time of unfavourable economic contingency, debts with banks. And while banks can yield their so-called deteriorated loans to 7, 8, 9 percent, to the poor unfortunates who run into banking procedures not only ask for all the refreshment, but also auction their homes with all the procedural costs. We cannot let our guard down on these issues at all. In telling this government and this majority that have abandoned the path of the real needs of the country, which continue to linger on the path of support for the great finance, the great industry and the great centers of power, we remember that we are here as a bulwark of the needs of the country. And denying the confidence on this measure, we brand that our country needs a productive program that considers Italy all one, from Trieste to Capo Passero, that it has the awareness that without 55 percent of the territory and 60 percent of the population of this country, which is the South, the Mezzogiorno of Italy, Italy will never be competitive. [[Applause from Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u34	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, corrective action is consistent with fiscal consolidation policies and with the objective of intervening on the structural limits that have led to a long-term trend certainly marked by weak and intermittent growth. It was important, however, that the correction of public accounts of 3.4 billion, equal to 0.2 percent of GDP, took place in line with the objective of not increasing the tax burden. It is essential that this has been done by maintaining the commitment not to intervene with increases in VAT or with the increase in excise duties on fuels in 2018 to cover the sterilization of safeguard clauses. The consolidation of the performance of debt and the contraction of the public deficit is oriented towards growth, firstly, with a reduction in the tax burden, with support for investment and other structural measures. We share the strategy of half-way structural adjustment for 2018 of 0.3% of GDP and, thanks to better growth in gross product, this will allow to predict that the next budget law will be a fair maneuver, able to guarantee the elimination of safeguard clauses, without a reversal of the trend of consolidation measures, and at the same time will open budgetary opportunities able to support incomes, to finance wider and more welfare elements and, decisive factor, to intervene on the cost of labour (the so-called tax wedge) to increase the productivity and competitiveness of the Italian productive world. Incisive policies to combat tax avoidance and evasion have produced significant results and released resources in favour of industrial policies and support for incomes and businesses, while it is by no means irrelevant that the overall tax burden fell from 43.6 percent in 2013 to 42.3 percent in 2016, reclassifying the Irpef reduction of 80 euros as a tax reduction. The guidelines and guidelines indicated by the Government in the 2017 Economic and Financial Document are confirmed by the maneuver. Similarly, we support the decision to stimulate selective investment in production sectors consistent with the Industry 4.0 strategy through additional tax incentives. In the DEF, the Government recalled that the tax reduction took place in a structural way with the revision of the tax base components of certain taxes, in particular IRAP (for labour costs) in 2015 and IMU (on machinery and systems bolted) in 2016, and the reduction of IRES rates in 2017. We believe that the objective of supporting growth through the completion and strengthening of reforms is crucial. It is very important to insist, always with reference to Industry 4.0, on an industrial policy that focuses on technological renewal, the stimulation of the competitiveness of the enterprise system and the need to continue on the path of privatisation through a balanced process and structural measures in a medium-term perspective (balance in public finance choices and objectives, therefore). There is a consolidation of a direction towards the consolidation of accounts with the deficit in constant contraction between 2014 and 2016, but with a speed of march adapted to the need to support the recovery of the real economy. It is in this area that we believe it is essential to intervene both fiscally and economically, in support of social policies for the family. Moreover, the set of measures planned for the benefit of territorial authorities, to which additional resources for more than 2 billion are allocated over the period 2016-2020, is important in this corrective manoeuvre, one of which is already allocated in 2017. This is a reversal of the trend over the years in which local authorities have had to administer on the basis of less resources due to public finance constraints. In the tax field, a number of measures are welcome, including the establishment of a transitory web tax on Internet giants; the possibility of opting for the application of the dry coupon at a rate of 21% on income derived from short rentals of real estate for residential use, if stipulated by natural persons outside the business year; the modification of the rules on the reopening of time limits for voluntary collaboration in tax matters; the modification of the rules on the disposal of deductions due for energy efficiency interventions in condominiums; the exclusion of supplementary forms of insurance from bail-in and the contrast to tax evasion. We believe that a great step has been taken in favour of the spontaneous emergence of tax bases and in order to stimulate the fulfilment of tax obligations by taxpayers, with the introduction of synthetic indices of tax reliability of taxpayers and the progressive elimination of the effects resulting from the application of parameters and sector studies. As a Group for Autonomies we also express satisfaction with the provision that provides for the exclusion of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano from the mobility basins for regional and local public transport services. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government for accepting several agendas presented by our Group and in particular the one that extends the tax concessions for energy efficiency interventions to the expenses incurred for the purchase and installation of micro-cogeneration units and that on the University of Trento. We hope that the next budget law will contain the ad hoc measures for this facility and will also translate the other commitments made into provisions. As a Group for PSI-MAIE Autonomies, we have also given priority, in the corrective manoeuvre, to the identification of a renewed discipline for the pay of occasional work and for families. The provisions introduced in the decree-law on the subject improve the situation, both in terms of the need to avoid possible abuses or violations, and in relation to cases requiring forms of work of particular flexibility: it finally emerges - as some technicians have classified it - a contract of employment that sets minimum hourly wages, very different therefore from the vouchers repealed and, for the first time, a form of minimum wage is introduced. For micro-enterprises, up to five employees, the occasional performance contract is certainly an appropriate and simplified tool. Similar considerations must apply to the introduction of the pre-financed telematic booklet available to families in the case of kindergartens, babysitting and the remuneration of care activities or those, non-profit-making, managed by private individuals. In conclusion, economic data confirm that there is no doubt that structural action is needed to make progress beyond moderate and still insufficient growth, especially when compared with other European dynamics. However, we share the view that there is still room for improvement in measures for redeployment of expenditure. We believe that the fiscal issue has been and is the discriminating point for growth and that this objective must be compatible with a downward perspective of the debt-to-GDP ratio. We must always remember, in fact, that we have a huge public debt. Well, in January, growth estimates were 0.7%. Today, the International Monetary Fund's growth forecast predicts that it will be 1.3% by the end of 2017. These are, therefore, higher growth forecasts than the estimated ones, which give us hope. They are macroeconomic data, of course, the positive effects of which will be felt over time, but they highlight how the work carried out so far and which will necessarily and forcefully continue to pay in the future, starting - we hope - from the next budget law, which will certainly have to be balanced and we are sure that it will not only consolidate public finances but will continue to stimulate the path of economic growth. For these reasons, the Group for the Italian Independents - Socialist Party will vote in favour of confidence. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u37	GUALDANI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to talk about the main purpose and objective of this decree-law: it is the result of a correction on the public accounts required by the European Union, in order to bring us to the medium-term objectives, from which there is a deviation of just under 0.2% for our country. Indeed, the net debt correction in the maneuver is EUR 3.1 billion. This is an important result, which we achieve without increasing the tax burden and without making draconian cuts in the cost of services to citizens. As is well known, most of the coverage of this decree comes from the extension of the split payment audience, a measure much criticized in the past. In resuming the debate last year when we introduced this measure, I would like to remind you of the obvious doubts about the possibility of obtaining the emergence of evasion, which, however, have been largely dissipated. The data tell us, in fact, that the emergence of evasion has been, has been important and enlargement will bring further emergence. In addition, we have approved cuts in the Ministry's unproductive spending and additional taxation on the game system. These are the fundamental items from which we find the resources not only to achieve that correction on the public accounts I have mentioned, but also to implement other very important measures. I would like to remind you that, only for the year 2017, with the maneuver, we refinance the expenses for the earthquake in Central Italy of about 700 million euros. In addition to this fundamental addition of resources, another rule that we implement, thanks also to the work of the Chamber of Deputies, provides for the overall increase of the financial envelope for the Provinces by almost 400 million euros, responding to an issue put to Parliament in recent months by representatives of the territorial institutions of all political colors. In this context we are able to realize, in addition to the correction of accounts, also the first steps of the path of partial neutralization of the safeguard clauses for 2018 and 2019. It is clear that a great effort remains to be made: clauses for about 15 billion still have to be neutralized to prevent the increase of taxes and, in particular, the increase of VAT, which would be disastrous at this time for the country. This is an effort that we must support, of course, in a negotiation that must continue with Europe and must be constant. As the People's Alternative Group, we call for continuous constructive dialogue in the European fora as one of the greatest achievements of this Group, which unfortunately is not recognized or - on the one hand - on who tells us that we should be more rigorous with Europe, or - on the other hand - on who tells us that we should leave Europe. We believe that the correction we are making today on public finances, precisely in order to respect the medium-term objectives and continue on a path of seriousness, respect for European rules, puts us in a political position to sit at the negotiating table in a position of even greater credibility in order to have results similar, if not better, than those we have already achieved in the past years. They have proved - I remember - that they have allowed us to approve innovative and fundamental measures for economic recovery and growth, such as contributory reductions, the abolition of IRAP at work, the super depreciation of measures for the National Plan Industry 4.0. They are all instruments that have been put in place thanks to the flexibility that this Government has gained from Europe. Well, I believe that we must continue on that path, because today, thanks also to this correction, we have all the legitimacy to ask for further margins of budgetary flexibility also for 2018. We must make full use of all the possibilities contained in the Treaties to capitalise on the new positive trends in the Italian economic system certified by ISTAT and, to this end, there has been an important opening up by authoritative European authorities. From this point of view, it is essential that there be a government to deal with and negotiate on these issues, and to be able to present a budget law and to face a serious budgetary session. We have had an increase in employment, in the years in which we ruled, by about 850,000 units. We have an increase in GDP which is greater than estimated. It is a very slow path of improvement, but - I repeat - the data tell us that it is the road that we must follow. That is why I think it is absolutely irresponsible and irresponsible to think of destabilising political scenarios, precisely during the period of the management of the maneuver, both in Italy and in Europe. Mr President, I would like to refer to two aspects which have also been the subject of Parliament's work. The first, which has already been highlighted in several locations, is that of the issue of vouchers. We voted on the hypothesis proposed by the Government on the partial re-introduction of a contract for the management of occasional work. We believe, however, that this measure is absolutely disappointing, unsatisfactory and does not cover all the needs of the productive and entrepreneurial fabric. We voted for it because it is a step in a direction for us to share: it is a measure that goes to cover at least some of the requirements that we have left uncovered with the decree of abolition of vouchers. Vouchers have had a great use. When we see that a measure has a great response, it is a success for us, and not a tool to eliminate. While remaining a very small percentage within the entire mountain hours worked in our country, as an absolutely marginal phenomenon, it responded to important needs. To sum up, we are absolutely opposed to the cultural approach of the limit of permanent staff within companies. The occasional work is regulated not by the size of the company, but by the peculiar type of an occasional supply and demand for work, which depend on the subject and not on the size of the company. This is discriminatory, it divides the world of companies, it puts a stake that can be a problematic jump: it is clear that a company will have problems hiring the sixth person and of course it will have convenience to stay with five employees. So, from this point of view, although we consider that result to be extremely disappointing, we voted because we think it is still a small step forward. To close, Mr President, I would like to devote a few thoughts to the issue of the earthquake and earthquake in Central Italy. Two important measures are included in the decree-law: one is represented by the refinancing of 700 million on 2017 (and one billion under the regime) of the measures of the earthquake; the second, fundamental novelty, is the identification of the free zone, equipped with tax and contribution reductions for all the companies that fall within it. We have made two important changes to the decree-law system. The first provides for an increase in funding and coverage for so-called indirect damage, which is substantially doubled. This is a possibility that responds to the needs strongly expressed by companies, especially in particular sectors, which had been highly penalized. The second refers to the possibility, at a fixed budget, to finance even the complete reconstructions of buildings and therefore, the possibility to renovate by demolishing and rebuilding the buildings completely, contributing substantially to the higher quality of the new building heritage. The decree-law to our examination takes care to face different situations attributable to the necessity and urgency of introducing financial measures and for the containment of public expenditure; to introduce tools aimed at allowing, in favor of the territorial authorities, a better equalization of resources and the programming of new or greater investments; moreover - as said - the measure is directed to intervene to introduce new initiatives aimed at protecting the populations affected by seismic events of the years 2016 and 2017. I conclude, President, by saying that the decree-law at our examination contains a summary of fiscal consolidation measures and interventions to revive growth and investment that constitute the fundamental foundations for the development of the country system. For all these reasons I announce the positive vote of confidence to the Government on the decree-law by the Alternative Popular Group - Centristi for Europe. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u40	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the memory of the day that has just escaped is lost too quickly in this country. Imagine everything that happened just a few months ago. In November 2016, the Commission of the European Union requested additional measures to be taken for 2017, i.e. to provide for a correction of the structural budget deficit planned for 2017 by May, of at least 0.2 per cent of GDP, or around 3.4 billion euros. For those who can read the numbers, this meant a sanction related to the choices made by Renzi in the 2017 budget law, built to respond also to the electoral promises for the referendum of 4 December, sonorably rejected by the Italian voters. Because of the tensions and contradictions of this majority, hostage of cross-country vetoes in perennial electoral campaigns, the Government, once again, has chosen the urgent decree, preventing Parliament from fully exercising its institutional prerogatives. And so we are faced not with a maneuver but with a sort of totally heterogeneous legal monster, with good peace of the promises of simplification of the Minister Madia and the former Prime Minister Renzi: 465 sober pages in which you managed to put everything, except effective measures to get out of the crisis. We are 7 or 8 points below the 2007 GDP; unemployment is still above 11% and CENSIS, just these days, has confirmed that more than 12 million Italians renounce to cure for lack of money, and there are still four and six hundred thousand poor people living in poverty. After announcing, with the now famous tweet, that they sent home 3,000 politicians of the Provinces, claimed source of all the waste, to close them, here comes resources for the Provinces and metropolitan cities to guarantee the salary to employees, the school building (but, by the way, did not have to pass everything to the Regions?), maintenance of roads. How do you do that? You give the possibility to cash with the speed cameras and use that money for the road and local police in derogation from the legislation in force, which imposes to devolve a quota not less than a quarter of the proceeds to the road safety (signs and billboards). And, by virtue of this, administrations will be able to allocate the proceeds of the related fines to cover budget costs rather than to increase road safety. Yet, I still remember a former President of the Province of Florence who was strongly indignant against the municipalities that put speed cameras not reported just to make cash. In this maneuver, there are many interventions ad personam. Article 62 contains a measure that arrived with a singular timing just when the conference of services for the construction of the Tor di Valle stadium was in progress. In fact, it gives the possibility to a technical body, which decides by majority, to approve a variant to the regulatory plan, in spite of the competence of the city council and introduces the possibility of residential construction in the construction of sports facilities, and not only of stadiums. I would remind you that at the beginning of the parliamentary term, some Members praised the rule for the stages that exclude all kinds of building speculation. What do you do? Set a standard for the stadium in Rome, but not for fans, but to finance a speculator financier who will make large profits, securing up to 20% of residential housing, even using Totti's image to convince politics. But - ahinoi - we have seen that the image of Totti is more than exploited by many politicians. Again, in these annals you have repeated: never again condon. Well, after the voluntary disclosure and the affair of Equitalia, we moved to the breaking of the slopes with the tax. Translated: they are all treated in the same way, both those who have already been condemned, and those who are still in the first degree of judgment. We are talking about people who already know that presumably that litigation will lose him; they have already been judged in fact evaders in the first degree and now, with a sponge stroke, paying only and exclusively what was due, without penalties, without aggravating and additional burdens, they return clean even with a conviction at first instance. In recent years we have discussed a lot about a law on AFAM and statization of tied institutions. Suddenly you change course and you choose the short and confused way, because - you know - you could vote at any moment and you have to give the signal to do. The Government is given yet another delegation in white to decide the statizations and their rationalization, without guaranteeing adequate resources, protection for the staff, protection for the precarious of the statesmen and the precarious of the musical high schools and academies. And of course the municipalities, those local authorities that in recent years have seen the ax of cuts fell fiercely even in the culture, will have to take charge of the previous debts of the institutions to be statified. I have to say, you don't know whether to laugh or cry. And what happens to institutions whose municipalities will not be able to bear the debts? But it is known: the election campaign is close and it is better a mirage to continue to guarantee at least the necessary resources, pain of closure; otherwise you will see, so much in the meantime some conservatives begin to close and the economic and cultural investments to make survive and grow institutes where you continue to produce music and art, thanks to the sacrifice and the abnegation of dozens of musicians and artists, someone else will think about it. Obviously, the sanatorium could not be lacking for the directors of the museums. Yet, the TAR reminded you that the laws must be respected, and not only those approved with confidence in haste and fury eagerly for performance worthy of best cause, but also those of which you have even lost track. And then we have the eight million at the Eliseo Theatre, an amendment that had been withdrawn from the thousand extensions. What is the criterion for funding outside FUS today, just as in these hours we are debating in the Commission the law on live entertainment and without serious economic and financial intervention on the whole theatrical system that has been dealing with the reduction of resources for years. Helping a private theatre in difficulty? Well, then it will be a principle and an unavoidable precedent to be used for all the realities of the world of the show that have budgets in red, especially for the public ones, where all too often lay off the workers to make the budgets square and little managers. Yet, money is still missing to renovate the Valle theatre, the oldest theatre in Rome, which is totally public property, with only a quarter of the necessary resources. We will not be silent about the violation of Article 9 of the Constitution. Finally, this maneuver will leave the mark above all for the serious choice to re-introduce the vouchers: a serious operation, smart, to say the least unconstitutional, undemocratic, unbearable even to tell. Today you re-introduce the vouchers cut quickly and furiously in March so as not to pass the scrutiny of a referendum for which the CGIL had collected more than 3 million signatures; a vote that should have been held a few days after the local elections and certainly was too dangerous. To vote or to give consent to this move even if we leave this House is to call into question the constitutional principles. We are faced with an arrogant exercise of power. But how do you expect to restore citizens' confidence in the institutions? About 60% of voters participated in the local elections and this is a sign of total distrust in politics and institutions. Do you really think that, after collecting more than 3 million signatures to request a referendum, then granted, you invent a decree-law not to let the citizens vote, decree-law that we also voted the opposition, and then at the first opportunity the vouchers are re-introduced in a devious way to say the least, invoking also that it is something else? It is a real theft of democracy and a serious anti-constitutional precedent: all in the name of the emergence of undeclared work, leaving out the arson of saying that there are various forms of contract, which you have always voted for, for seasonal or intermittent work and it is not necessary to replace already precarious contracts with even more shameful others. I would add that your operation is particularly serious because, by your laws, you are changing the work culture. Young people are now resigned to precariousness, addicted and unable to react, to the point that it becomes normal to accept to be paid on presentation of receipts; resigned to a future without work and this is a damage to the whole of society and is really very dangerous. We are therefore faced with a very serious attack on our democratic system but in perfect harmony with your supposed reforms of this legislature, all characterized by authoritarian tone. From the Delrio Law on Provinces, to constitutional reform, passing through the jobs act and the law on good school, as well as your draft electoral law, the manifest and no longer hidden objective is the zeroing of spaces and democratic participation in the name of the ideology of the strong man or the strong woman alone in command. We of the Italian Left will vote against this decree-law in a clear and consistent way and Saturday, June 17 we will be in the square with the CGIL, reminding you that democracy is untouchable. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and the Senators De Pin and Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u43	MANGILI (M5S). Mr President, the measure under consideration stems from the imposition of the European Commission on Italy to correct the present excessive public deficit; a structural correction of at least 0.2 per cent of GDP (about 3.5 billion) that does not allow our country to remain in line with the path of convergence towards a balanced budget provided for in the European Treaties. We are, therefore, talking about a correction of public finances requested by Brussels, which will have an inevitable recessive impact. The decree-law in question is justified by stating that this intervention moves in a narrow space, between the needs of fiscal consolidation and support for growth. But why do you not admit that the reasons why Italy does not prosper and does not really grow - in social terms above all - lie also and above all in European choices? Why do you not confess the true original sin, namely that Europe - imposing a massive dose of austerity in the form of cuts in public spending - has failed miserably, managing to increase inequalities, absolute poverty and increasing divergence? Neither austerity nor structural reforms that are true or supposed to date have managed to restore that prosperity in our country and what is worse is that they aggravate the recession. But, above all, the main mistake that has been and continues to be made is to focus all the attention on budget deficits, so much so as to make a misdiagnosis of the problem. The treatment you're giving us is wrong, it's devastating and it's bankrupt. There is little point in saying that these policies in the future will make everyone feel better or must be accepted by the citizens, who - in your opinion - will see the benefits and not only suffer negative consequences. It's not like that, it's not. Your real concern is to be able to put in place actions to avoid negative repercussions on economic and monetary union. Italy continues to exhibit excessive macroeconomic imbalances, starting from the still weak dynamics of production, the high volume of deteriorated loans and high unemployment. In addition, the recessionary maneuvers imposed to satisfy Brussels have had the opposite effect, i.e. the increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio. What strikes the most is that this Government, despite everything, has decided to continue with the logic of the maneuvers, that is, with that series of operations necessary for the operation of the economic machine of a country that has come to collapse, although someone still makes believe that it is growing in terms of GDP. We are talking, therefore, about a maneuver to correct the accounts that you have wronged and that Europe is asking us to settle. Yet, I do not believe that Europe has asked to settle the accounts by including - for example - paragraph 4 in Article 22 which integrates the discipline referred to in article 5, paragraph 5, of Decree-Law No 78 of 2010. The latter article deals with the award of compensations for the performance of tasks with public administrations, which only provides for the reimbursement of expenses incurred and the allocation of presence tokens up to a maximum of 30 euros per session. In essence, you have considered it appropriate to establish that these tasks do not include those relating to professional services conferred on holders of elected offices of regions and local authorities by public administrations, provided that the competent public administration operates in a territory other than that of the body with which the person concerned to confer the office is elected. I cannot fail to point out a few points of this measure. Meanwhile, the tax safeguard clauses that you set, albeit partially reduced, on 1 January 2018, for a lower amount of 15.2 billion instead of 19.6 remain confirmed. The point will be discussed in October. Let's see if you can truly honour your commitment. We have more than one reasonable reason to think that you will only succeed with some other cut, but unfortunately always to the detriment of the citizens who do not deserve it. As far as voluntary cooperation is concerned, I would like to remind you that very few people have joined it. Therefore, it will be difficult to achieve the revenue you are planning, all the more so since your forecasts are not only unlikely, but above all they are not certain. I now come to the vouchers, which have been withdrawn months ago, and then inserted again and which nevertheless do not solve the problem of precarious work or undeclared work. I would like to add a clarification on the Alitalia issue. The €600 million envisaged in Alitalia's rescue operation is called a bridge loan or a financing loan. The reason for this donation is based on the desire to save the occupation of the former flag company's staff. At least that's the reason for the facade. The real one, on the other hand, insists on the need to cover the holes and losses caused by politics to a company that was to be our flagship. Unfortunately, behind this choice there is a good and feasible industrial plan, but you know: you are used to doing everything without considering the causes, the consequences, but above all the impacts in economic terms. So, who cares if infringement procedures for unlawful State aid are opened in Brussels? The important thing is not the infringements, but to be able to tell everyone that the Alitalia issue has been at the center of the technical tables of your Ministries for months. That's all you care about. Finally, there is no point in hiding our regret at the reduction of the funds on local public transport by an amount of EUR 135 million, while you have thought well to provide 97 to guarantee the Ryder Cup. Faced with all these choices of the government, one wonders: but where have those policies that guarantee prosperity ended, understood not simply as an increase in GDP, but as a shared prosperity, in which democratic values are honored and respected and promote solidarity and social cohesion? You have said several times that combining correction of public accounts with economic development and support measures is quite complicated. This is certain, but since the mistakes made in this parliamentary term by the Commission are countless and relate to many aspects of the lives of us citizens, perhaps it is time to make a more detailed and extensive analysis before we commit others, perhaps by making real use of the parliamentary debate. Since we are sure that you will find it difficult to avoid any further mistakes in the future, I and the political group to which I belong express a firm no to the vote of confidence required by this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u46	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law under discussion, which came to an end after the many changes made by the House of Deputies, mortifies this branch of Parliament, forcing it not to be able to face an examination carried out and to have to take note that we are faced with a text which cannot be amended. Despite our protests, the Senate is again prevented from entering into the substance of the text, as has happened in recent months on the budget law and on the so-called tax decree. We are moving forward with confidence and our branch of Parliament is constantly undermining its role. The debate, however, allows us to leave to the documents an analysis of both the text and the errors of economic policy replicated, even now, by this Government, in the same wake of the previous Government. I would like to talk briefly about chapters. First of all, I would like to focus on taxation. After this, VAT rates have risen since 2018: the rate of 10 goes up to 11.5 percent, while the rate of 22 goes up by three points, reaching 25 percent. Sterilization is temporary, only postponing the increase to 13% by 2020. In terms of financial coverage, this transaction is worth EUR 3.5 billion. This is an intervention after which more than 73 billion tax clauses remain in place until 2021. The increase in excise duty of €350 million is postponed to 2019. The substance of the measure under consideration, so wide and varied, is the increase in taxes and taxes for about 4.5 billion in 2018, generated by the same chapters that in 2017 generate higher revenues for about 3 billion euros. Among these, they originated from the games 238 million euros, which become 413 in 2018, despite the will, flaunted by all, to reduce the social impact of gambling. This is the state of affairs, waiting for the announcements to obviously exceed parliamentary acts. These elements are capable of reducing consumer confidence and depressing consumption, losing people's purchasing power, which could therefore only be generated by a significant reduction in income taxes. The evaluation of the four years of central-left government - from 2014 to 2017 - can therefore be made serenely, numbers in hand. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u47	Colleagues, please, I invite you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u48	Please, Senator Mandelli. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). The reduction of taxes, made mainly with the various bonuses, is worth 49 billion euros, while the increase of taxes is worth 57 billion euros. Therefore, there are 8 billion more taxes on Italian citizens, and not due to automatisms linked to the growth, albeit modest, of GDP, but linked to economic policy choices. On the contrary, there is still a lack of serious revision of public expenditure, which in this labour market sees cuts for less than EUR 300 million. This brings us to a total of around EUR 44 billion in expenditure reduction over four years, but increases in expenditure are paid for about twice as much. And how do you finance this difference? It is financed through the use of net debt, which remains more than 35 billion in 2017, although with this surplus it is reduced by 3.5 billion. We are in the presence of a policy of correction of the public accounts that contains interventions still hypercentralist, where continue to play the role of the cinderella all levels of government of the territory. The measures introduced here are aimed at creating new financial spaces or expanding resources, after having reached the impossibility of providing essential services to citizens. We refer to the basic functions of large-area institutions, such as providing for about 130,000 kilometres of roads or 5,100 school buildings or providing assistance to 234,000 disabled pupils. Now, through a temporary return of 180 million euros for 2017 and 2018, we are trying to patch up a messy reform of the Provinces - present in the Constitution, but not in the so-called Delrio law - after the cuts of 5 billion and 200 million of the last three years. Over 90 percent of the labour force is, therefore, based on tax growth. The increase in taxes certainly represents an increase in the pressure on the production system, both on companies and on freelancers. In fact, there are very few initiatives in favour of them in this labour force, which certainly do not compensate for the increase in the tax burden envisaged here. This measure, which was made necessary to correct the deficit-GDP ratio by 0.2 percentage points, from 2.3 to 2.1 percentage points, does so by increasing revenue by 2 billion and 800 million and reducing expenditure by 300 million. The rule is certain: as long as there is a deficit, the debt rises. In fact, the Italian debt continues to rise. Just a few minutes ago, an agency of Banca d'Italia estimates it to 2,270 billion. It increased by 10 billion compared to last month, with a debt-to-GDP ratio of over 132%. In this manoeuvre the maximum level of the net balance to be financed is slightly corrected. As is corrected the maximum level of recourse to the financial market, reduced by 2 billion and 415 million, compared to the increase of 20 billion anticipated by the so-called rescue decree banks. It has to be said that it still grows by 17 billion and 585 million compared to the 2017 budget law. There is still a lack of important structural support for investment, which is necessary to make the economy grow, create stable jobs and create a climate of trust in people, which - let me say informal language - induces them to take their savings from under the brick. It is therefore necessary to continue to support people's savings, where directed towards investments in the Italian economy, made by small and medium-sized enterprises, which still have a very critical relationship with access to bank finance, as the RIPs have begun to do. The zero tax formula to those who invest for more than five years supporting the Italian Mid Cap works. The rule extending this form of investment to pension funds and pension funds is therefore appropriate. For this particular exception there has been a great contribution of Forza Italia to the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, we are still far behind on the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquake of August 2016. This is the fourth urgent legislative intervention, but the emergency has not yet been brought to an end. The reconstruction is choking under a sea of cards. Even in the balance-to-have of this maneuver there are 35 million less for this year, while - like all other items - the 885 million posted in 2018 will have to be confirmed by the 2018 budget maneuver. Finally, there are two aspects that I would like to highlight: the first concerns vouchers and the second concerns the extension of the split payment for professionals. In expressing satisfaction with the re-introduction of the voucher, however, we cannot fail to point out that, with the approval of this text, we will be faced with a cumbersome and complex system that will be at the expense of families. And I am referring to the difficulties that citizens will encounter when they have to register on the INPS platforms. And that can only go against our way of doing politics. The future of the labour market must be increasingly flexible, but above all increasingly simplified and streamlined. We are opposed to extending the split payment to professionals. The measure thus formulated has a double negative effect: that of draining liquidity to a sector that in these years of crisis has gone on with difficulty and courage, and that of returning the image of a country without certain rules. Professionals today are already tracked by paying down the down payment and tightening the rules that limit the circulation of liquidity is a decision that we believe will not produce real effects in the fight against evasion. In conclusion, it would be necessary to reflect, in all honesty, on how many mistakes it has caused to chase after wrong institutional reforms (I am thinking of constitutional reform, Italicum or Delrio reform) and economic policies aimed at pursuing a momentary consensus (I am thinking of various bonuses, various rain interventions and all the missed cuts in unproductive spending). The road can only be the brave one of an important cut in labour income taxes and a simultaneous cut in unproductive spending. But, unfortunately, this is a path that requires a multi-annual vision and that hardly a political experience at the end of the line will be able to bring to completion. For these reasons, dear President, I declare the Group of Forza Italia voting against this umpteenth confidence. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u51	TONINI (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote firmly in favour of the government's confidence and will also express a yes to the decree-law at our examination. 11.42 a.m., followed by TONINI. We will vote in favour because this decree-law is an important part of an economic and social policy strategy that is proving itself, as time passes, fruitful, because it has been set in an ambitious and concrete way at the same time. In this long debate I have heard so much criticism of this or that aspect of the decree-law. Now there is no time to go back to all the individual aspects, but colleagues who spoke yesterday in general have already replied, point by point: I quote for all Mr Ichino, who has responded, for his part, to the objections (for the sake of legitimate charity, but in our opinion absolutely unfounded) about the measure in favour of occasional work. The criticisms have been made about individual measures, but also and above all about the general approach of our economic and social policy. I have heard a lot of criticism, but none of us has managed, despite our efforts to try to understand and listen to the reasons of others, to grasp an alternative strategy, just as ambitious and - let me be quite specific. In recent years, the government's strategy has been based primarily on the objective of putting policies in the field of growth and employment: this has been our main objective and it is also in this decree. The aim is to achieve the maximum possible commitment of public resources, both through investment and the reduction of the tax burden, concentrated in particular on enterprise and labour, compatible with the objective of fiscal consolidation which is equally important for us. In terms of objectives, the objective is primarily that of growth and employment, but from the instrumental point of view the objective of fiscal consolidation is equally important and essential, i.e. the progression towards balance of the budget and therefore the stabilisation of the debt. We have been recognised by all international authorities that our debt is in a stabilisation phase, particularly in relation to GDP and, of course, once we have achieved balance, the objective will be to reduce debt. The third important element of this strategy is to put in place reforms, both in the markets and in the public sector, aimed at increasing the potential growth and overall productivity of our system. In these years and with this measure the path continues towards a structural reduction of the fiscal pressure and at the same time its remodulation and redevelopment. I do not remember all the fiscal policy measures launched over the years; other than tips and bonuses strategy, as I hear constantly repeating! Ten billion euros of tax discount on low average incomes, welded with the reduction of the IMU on the first house (so the pressure, again in this case, on the classes that own their first home): two thirds of these resources have gone to consumption, so they have supported the growth of these years. Then there is the structural reduction of IRAP and IRES which, together with investment incentives, from those on building infrastructure to those on machinery, have helped the ongoing recovery, driven, in particular, by the industrial system. Finally, the universal and structural measures to combat poverty. It is not only a question of reduction, but also of redevelopment and reorientation of fiscal policy, continuing the path of selective reduction, in particular on work and enterprise, financed also through a massive commitment, unpublished in this form and in these measures, against tax evasion, in particular against VAT evasion, which is the mother of all evasions [[Applause from the PD Group).]] We are talking about EUR 50 billion in VAT evasion; we want to finance the reduction of the tax burden on labour, enterprise and households through a fight against tax evasion that will increase VAT revenue, not because we are increasing rates (and we are working to defuse the clauses that would increase tax rates), but because we are increasing revenue through structural measures to combat tax evasion. These measures are not a general commitment, but a forecast of concrete measures. In this decree-law there is the split payment, but in the study there is also the extension and generalization of e-invoicing, which is the main tool for the elimination at the root of VAT evasion. The fruits of this strategy are coming, and this very handful proves it, which was born to correct a modest deviation from the debt targets of 0.2 of GDP, but which, on the way, has become something more important. As the opposition forces have also recognized, the perhaps most qualifying part of this maneuver is the advance of the release of the VAT clauses of 2018: we expected to disarm them in 2018 and a quarter of this maneuver is already anticipated in 2017. Together with the negotiations that are taking place with the European Commission, this will enable us in the autumn to make a budgetary manoeuvre that will have expansive and not restrictive characteristics and, therefore, recessive. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a crucial point, which represents the recording of the conquest by this decree-law. It has also been recognised at international level that we are moving in the right direction. A number of colleagues have mentioned the last important fact, that of the report by the International Monetary Fund, which highlights an important aspect, on which I believe it is useful to reflect and with which I start to conclude. The Fund reports that the Italian economy is in the third year of a moderate recovery (moderate: we would like it much more incisive and we are working for it), which is supported by three factors, which the Fund indicates in order: firstly, by the policies and efforts of reform of the Government (this is the first factor); secondly, by exceptional monetary facilities (the policies of the European Central Bank, which do not come from heaven, are also largely the result of a European policy of the Italian Government); thirdly, by the low prices of raw materials. The Fund reports growth projections for this year to 1.3%; before that they were 0.8% and the Fund adjusted them forward by half a percentage point of GDP, almost 40% more than the planned targets. However, as the winds in favour will become less favourable in the years to come - these institutions are always pessimistic and prefer to sin pessimism than optimism, and that's right - growth is expected to stand at one percent, therefore less than 2017, in 2018 and until 2020. Why are the forecasts for next year and subsequent years more cautious - and I would say more pessimistic - than those of the current year? For the financial fragility, largely due to the mass of our public debt, which makes us structurally exposed to risks; in the second place there are political uncertainties and the third possible setbacks to the process and the reform path. The risk factors, then, are certainly in debt, because we have it on our shoulders, but it can become dangerous in the presence of political instability and a setback in the process of reforms. Let us clear the field of the stupid debate that we are having if we have to vote a month before or after. The problem is not the conclusion of this parliamentary term, which is an important element, but the prospect: what will happen after the next elections? Will we have a stable country able to continue along the path of reforms or will we enter a spiral of confusion, in which the elements of rupture will prevail over the road carried out in recent years? It is clear that this is the crucial issue, on which I believe it is appropriate in this House and in this Parliament to start a debate which will naturally continue in the country and in the electoral corps when, at the latest at the beginning of next year, we are called to vote. That will be the decisive issue. Europe is reorganizing: it has defeated and isolated the outbreak of infection from the United Kingdom, with the risk of a dissolution of the European path and, in particular, of economic and monetary union. Europe is moving forward, in particular thanks to the resounding and extraordinarily positive result of the French elections: France has beaten the Eurosceptic and anti-European positions of Mrs Le Pen and has chosen, in a massive and clear way, to remain the protagonist of Europe and the euro. In Germany it is assumed that the result in September will be continuity and stability, regardless of whether this continuity will be led by Mrs Merkel or the SPD leader Schulz. The problem is we: do we want to be in this group, which is working to reorganize, restructure, reform and relaunch the European path of the euro, or do we decide to call ourselves out? Let it be clear that, compared to a few months ago, when a possible different outcome in France would trigger a debauched chain reaction of the European Union, we are now in a completely different scenario. It is clear that a crisis in Italy can cause damage to Europe, but it is also true that other countries have decided to move forward. The problem is ours: do we want to be in this debate as protagonists or do we want to cut out a space of escape that would lead us - this yes - to a condition of dangerous instability and recession? I believe that this is the political issue ahead of us. The government - and the Democratic Party that supports it, together with the decisive contribution of other allies - is clearly oriented towards this direction: we are to move Europe forward and participate in the discussion and planning of a new phase for Europe and for the eurozone in particular. For this reason, we vote for the confidence of this Government and the decree-law under consideration, which is an important part of this strategy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u53	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u54	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will not vote for the government's dissension from the group that is hosting me, especially to point out an affair of bad politics: that of vouchers and the regulation that replaces them. While it is true that society is calling for simple, certain and stable rules to guide its activities, during this parliamentary term the rules on short work have changed even four times. First it has been enlarged with respect to the previous normative sediment, then it has been corrected with the appropriate introduction of functional requirements to the vigilance, then it has been cancelled in front of the referendary threat, finally it has been reintroduced in terms that discontent both the ideology and the reality. The new text is introduced not only after the escape from the referendum, but in ways that do not allow, in fact, a careful parliamentary reading, and can be seen. We recognize the need for simple rules of short work, but we satisfy it by evoking the heavy discipline of subordinate work and, inexplicably, only in companies up to five employees, as if reality were made by segments. The only important limit - that of compensation between the same contractor and the same employee - is even too generous, but then there are unjustified limits to compensation between a contractor and more lenders and between a lender and more clients. Intermittent employment contracts remain inhibited by meaningless constraints and all this by needless reawakening ideological prejudices. Government people, meditate on the fact that you have displeased both those who idealize the work and those who do the work. It does not seem to me, however, that the many discontented give rise to such honor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u57	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business and on the regularity of the vote. Allow me to make one minute's speech, just to point out the following: we are concerned with the legitimacy of parliamentary representation and the regularity of votes. We are voting for important trust and other important trusts are planned for the coming weeks. Well, we know that some colleagues have been elected mayors in cities with more than 20,000 inhabitants. We know that there is an incompatibility between the two positions, which provides for a fairly long and complex procedure, with a 30-day period to declare it to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and all the rest. Mr President, I appeal to your sensitivity and to that of my fellow Members, and also to ensure that we do not affect the future votes of this House, and I call on you to do as soon as possible, at the time of your proclamation, all the practices necessary to remove these incompatibilitys immediately. [[Comments from the PD Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). It's not like the senators who take over vote with you! CRIMI (M5S). This is so that there is no doubt about the will to arrive at the fateful date of 15 September for the privileged pension by these colleagues: yet another mockery to the citizens! [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u58	Senator Crimes, we take note of this report of yours, which is, however, on a preventive basis since we await the proclamations, before we can proceed to any assessment of incompatibility. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u59	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2853, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 24 April 2017, n. 50, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, the senators Napolitano, Pinotti, Nencini, D'Onghia, Di Giorgi, D'Ascola, Fattorini, Casini, Lucherini, Marinello and Romani Maurizio. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Santangelo is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Santangelo. FRAVEZZI, secretary, makes the appeal. Yes, the senators answer: Aiello, Torbano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bonaiu, Bondi, Borioli, Broglia, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capinali, Casini, Cassano, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascoli, D'Ascoli, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Guerrieri Paleotti Ichino, Ferrara, Idemena, Filippin, Filippi Lonci, Fisore, Francizzi Gentile, Jacobe, Giannini, Ginetti, Gualdani, Guerrieri, Ichino, Ichino The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Boccardi, Bocchino, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Cassinelli, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolinellino, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Cotti, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, Davico, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Divina, Petrono Endrizzi Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Fucksia Gaetti, Gasparri, Giarrusso, Giovanardi, Girotto, Girotto Iurlarardi, Girotto Iurlarola, Divellino, Divola Langella, Luci, Luci Malano, Luci Marglia Marglia Marglia, Malan, Malan, Malan, Mandelli The Senator abstains: Conti. (Senator Falanga declares that he is not taking part in the vote.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2853, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 50 of 24 April 2017, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 144 Contrari 104 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 50.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u60	I inform you that, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the agenda has been reversed, anticipating the draft law on citizenship from the vote on the opinion of the 1st Commission on the decree-law on vaccines. She asked Senator De Petris to intervene to illustrate this request. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u61	Mr President, I have asked for the reversal together with other senators because, as is well known, in line with the requests I have been making for months, I think it is time to frame the draft laws on citizenship. I therefore call for them to be put before the vote on the opinion of the 1st Commission on the constitutionality of the Decree-Law on Vaccines, on which, however, we reserve the right to intervene. I think it is absolutely important that this House finally begins to debate and examine the citizenship bill. We have been waiting for a year and nine months, so I appeal to the House to vote in favour of the reversal and finally we can start a debate that has been expected for a long time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u62	I would remind you that no more than one speaker against and one in favour will be able to speak on the proposal to reverse the agenda, tabled by Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u65	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, if there are any doubts, I would like to speak specifically against the proposal to reverse the agenda. I am opposed to the reversal and incardination of the citizenship measure. This measure came to the Commission in October 2015, so it has been there for one year and eight months. It is my fault that it lies there, not only because of a number of amendments, but also because of the use of the Rules of Procedure, including the use of the Rules of Procedure, so much so that after one year and eight months only one amendment was adopted. I don't think it's a fault, but it's a merit to have stopped this bill from going crazy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But the merits are right to share them and the first party with which I want to do so is the Democratic Party. Why? We have tabled 8,000 amendments and in the past I have tabled 85 million of them, but when we wanted to make a law, it was done: with trusts, with kangaroos, with premissive amendments, with apocryphal amendments. So there is no political will. The PD had the President of the Commission (they had it until December 2016); it had the President of the 5th Commission who, in his goodness, had not yet delivered an opinion on the amendments after a year; he had the presidency of the Senate. So they could have moved on. It wasn't like that. Then, as always happens, the Democratic Party, depending on the period per year and the electoral advantage, as Dr. Jekyll becomes Mr. Hyde and decides to schedule this bill, even without rapporteur, for June 15. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But you don't have to do too much, because there are the ballots, but you also have to give the content to the left, so, not for a handful of dollars but for a handful of votes, you are selling out our identity; you are selling out the identity of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] A law changes it when it doesn't work. Law No 91 of 1992 works all too well, it should be reduced, as Senator Gasparri rightly said. Someone tell me: the number of citizens released at European level is steadily falling. What is the country that in 2016 made the record of the number of issued citizenships? Italy with 205,000 new citizens. Last year Italy again, with 180,000 citizens. In three years we've doubled the number of citizens released. Yet we continue to say that we are too restrictive on the issue of citizenship. I would be much more so, especially on those who acquire it through marriage that determines hallucinating situations in which women are abused and on which the left never says anything, because the extra-Community is always holy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I do not see only a numerical problem, although numerically it certainly is because it is said that I denied citizenship to a million citizens. I think that the problem is not that one million people who want citizenship, but that someone on the left wants that one million citizens to become their elector. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] But what scares me is not only the sale of our identity, but the aspect of security. I cannot forget the countries where there have been attacks and I cannot fail to consider a law like the one that wants it alone, because the attackers, all of them (I am talking about Brussels, London, Manchester, wherever the attacks took place in Europe) had in their pockets a passport of the country against which they made the attack. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Manconi (PD). It's fake! Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Protest, it doesn't lead to anything, the truth hurts, but in the meantime take it home and go tell it to your citizens and voters. Mr Manconi (PD). Where was the Berlin guy from? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I will say more: the lord of Manchester, son of Libyans who thanks to the ius soli, that is that law that you want to carry on today, took citizenship and the English passport, made the attack in Manchester and, dulcis in fundo, had taken 7,500 euros of scholarship and instead of studying with that money bought us the bomb. Bravo, congratulations! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Protests from the PD Group. Senator Manconi's comments..]] Afterwards we will discuss mandatory health treatments. The first place to apply the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution is this Parliament which, instead of committing itself to Italian citizens, thinks only of their votes. Good. Go on, I don't know where you're going. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The deadline for tabling amendments has expired for four minutes. Get ready to count, because there are so many. Someone said we're ready to trust each other. We have here Minister Finocchiaro, we are already ready, let's put it already today, without even the general discussion, but remember that with a confidence nothing is done, because if this measure were to be approved with a vote of confidence, an article entirely replacement, then it would return to the House and there would die. Or get ready to put in four. I wish you all good luck and a good vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u66	The Rules of Procedure provide that no more than one senator in favour and one against may speak on the request to reverse the agenda. We heard the version against Senator Calderoli. A speaker can now speak in favour. Mr Manconi (PD). That surgery was in favor! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already mentioned what the Rules of Procedure say. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, but I have to say something else, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u68	Senator Crimes, do you speak against or in favor? CRIMI (M5S). Just one point, Mr President, I do not speak against or in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then he can't talk. CRIMI (M5S). Why did you tell me I can't talk? If you'd like, I'm against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't. CRIMI (M5S). I know. I asked to intervene for this. You do not allow me to do so, because the Rules of Procedure do not allow it. Maximum respect for the Rules of Procedure, always on our part and not on the part of others.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u69	[[Comments from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. But he can't talk! Shut up! CRIMI (M5S). Having said that, I should like to add a clarification, Mr President. This is a demonstration of what you're doing. You're delivering the debate... [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u70	Senator Crimes, I didn't give you the floor to give your opinion on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u71	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, allow me to say that you are giving the debate on such an important subject to these statements, from which I disagree, and to others which I shall hear from the other side, on which I also disagree. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u74	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I want to make a double point of order. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u75	Quiet! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The agenda would, at this point, bring the discussion on the application of Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure for the presuppositions of the decree-law on vaccination matters. This is not just any item on the agenda, but it is a precise obligation laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Rule 78 stipulates that the vote must take place within five days of the vote in the Commission. The vote in the Commission took place on Tuesday. I do not see that there are any scheduled sittings on Friday, Saturday or Sunday, so we are obliged to do so now. There is a possibility of calling for the agenda to be reversed, but not when there is a risk of failing to comply with a specific obligation laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, my objection is that this anticipation is made not only against the Rules of Procedure, but against the Constitution, which in Article 72 (1) requires that every bill be examined by the Commission and the Assembly. For the Commission's examination, I do not think that it is meant to have waved a few sheets in that place. The amendments were tabled on 12 April 2016, so 14 months ago, and half a session was devoted to their examination. Half a sitting in 14 months is not an examination of the measure, so the measure is still to be discussed in the Commission. Nor can we anticipate an undisputed measure in the Commission to the detriment of a point that the agenda and the Rules of Procedure prescribe absolutely: it is not that we could do it today, but we can do it in two or three weeks' time as any motion. It is an obligation provided for in the Rules of Procedure to discuss the requests referred to in Article 78, moreover deriving from the obligation provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, so the decree-laws must be submitted to the Chambers within five days of their adoption. This, therefore, is a fundamental term. If Parliament were to decide that there were no preconditions, the decree-law would lapse. It is a constitutional obligation, it is not one of many points, with all due respect for each point of the Rules of Procedure. This is a fundamental point that we cannot postpone. We look at this and then we have to move on with the normal agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u76	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u77	Senator Malan, since it is still five days, there is nothing to prevent the Senate from being summoned to comply with the Rules of Procedure if we cannot do so today. We're not there yet. We hope to be able to conclude everything by 2 p.m. which is the deadline for the end of the sitting. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u80	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, but if we have to spend the time to get to the end of the session, let me know so we stop right now and leave. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would have spoken at the beginning of the sitting but I do so to get an answer from you. Our Rules of Procedure provide, for the draft law of conversion, that the President of the Senate shall submit within five days to the vote of the Assembly the contrary opinion expressed by the 1st Commission on the grounds required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution. Within the same period, the President shall submit the opinion of the Commission to the vote of the Assembly if he so requests within the day following that on which the opinion was expressed, one tenth of the members of the Senate and a nominal vote shall be taken by simultaneous ballot on it. The five days would expire on Monday. What I would like to ask you is whether the quorum on that vote should be cut, is the opinion rejected, since it is a favourable opinion? Is there a need for further convocation or what interpretation do you give at this point in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u81	I am surprised at this question, because if there is no vote, it cannot be rejected and the lack of quorum is not a vote. In that case, the sitting shall be convened until there is a quorum and a vote can be taken. My interpretation is that we have five days that we can use. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I get it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u84	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall not go into the substance of the ius soli and the assessments we have made in the Commission and which we shall be expressing elsewhere. Since you said that nothing would prevent the Senate from being convened within five days, I would ask that the Conference of Leaders be convened to decide the timetable for the following days. [[Applause from Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u85	When we're there, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u86	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Otherwise, you are in danger of doing something complicated with regard to a subject on which the country's attention is concerned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm vaccinated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u88	What are you going to do about it? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must first have a favourable opinion, then we will take action. You can't always intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u91	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of President De Petris' proposal for a reversal of the agenda, also knowing that they will leave all the time in this same sitting for other tasks. Senator Calderoli gave me the arguments that motivate our vote and did so when he reminded us of the number of amendments tabled in the Commission, which are the reason that allows us to describe as obstructive the behaviour of those who did not want the adoption of the bill at that time. I must also say that this very brief debate which preceded my speech always confirms the existence of a obstructive attitude towards this text. I must also tell you my personal opinion very frankly. Of course, all the parliamentary conduct provided for in the Rules of Procedure is legitimate, but I believe that politically it is not a noble act on the part of Parliament when, instead of discussing the substance, it is left to attitudes that have to do only with excessive use of procedures. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] Moreover, from the intervention of Senator Calderoli I realized that there is a further problem, namely the need for us to discuss this bill after reading it, because without having done it the issues become more complicated. We are not just talking about giving citizenship to children and children who were born in Italy, but about giving citizenship to children who have lived and studied in Italy. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bencini.]] We are talking about giving citizenship to children who are Italians and who therefore have the right to have citizenship. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Uras and Bencini. Comments from LN-Aut Group and Senator Fattori]] I hope that the debate in this House on this measure will not follow the obstructionist line that has been introduced in the Commission and it is indeed an important debate on the substance of the bill. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You did, the obstruction!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u92	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to reverse the agenda. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). CARDINALI (PD). So much for obstruction! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] Calm down, we're not at the stadium. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Montevecchi (M5S). We're not at the stadium! Resumption of the debate on the proposal to reverse the agenda. I shall put to the vote the proposal that the agenda be reversed, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. [[Comments from Senator Esposito Stefano]] I have the counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]] Mr Manconi (PD). Pusillanami!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u93	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2092, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the own-initiative drafts of the Members of Parliament Di Lello and others; Vendola and others; Bressa; Bressa; Pes and others; Zampa; Caparini and others; Bersani and others; Vaccaro; Marazziti and others; Faith and others; The Make and others; Caruso and others; Gozi; Bueno and others; Caruso and others; Porta and others; Polverini; Sorial and others; Merlon and Borghese; Centemero; Bianconi; Bianchi Dorina; Fitzgerald Nissoli and others; Fabbri and others, 17, 202, 255, 271, 330, 604, 927, 967 and 2394. I call the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Torrisi, to report on the Commission's work. [[Senator Candiani points out that he wants to intervene. Comments from the PD Group.]] Wait, let's have the President of the 1st Commission report first. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] I have already given the floor to the President of the 1st Commission. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I would ask you to speak on the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is President Torrisi, report on the Commission's work. (Senator Volpi insults the President.) Senator Volpi, this stigmatizes his senator style. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Senator Volpi, please sit outside. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] Senator Volpi, he's expelled. [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments from the LN-Aut Group]] CHOIR OF VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out! Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please Parliamentary Assistants and Senators Quaestors to follow up on my decision. Senator Calderoli, you're a Vice President. Senator Volpi cannot use these words in this Chamber; say them outside. Senator Volpi, get out of the Chamber. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Every time there is an unimplemented Regulation, you are a sold one. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of what you said. Senator Torrisi, do your surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u94	Mr President, the draft law before the House today amends Law No 91 of 1992 and other provisions on citizenship. In particular, the issue of the acquisition of citizenship by minors is addressed. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame! TORRISI (AP-CpE-NCD). The main innovations consist in the forecast of a new case of acquisition of Italian citizenship by birth, the so-called ius soli, and the introduction of a case of acquisition of citizenship following a school path, the so-called ius culturae. The draft law was approved at first reading by the Chamber of Deputies on 13 October 2015 and, once transmitted to the Senate, was assigned to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which began its examination on 27 October 2015 with the introductory report of the rapporteur, Ms Lo Moro. (Some Senators of the LN-Aut Group occupy the benches of the Government, giving pressure to the members of the Government sitting there, and display signs in green: "NO IUS SOLI" and "STOP INVASION." Senators Quaestors intervene). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! TORRISI (AP-CpE-NCD). Following the discussion and rejection of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by certain Opposition Groups, the debate began on 15 December 2015. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Stop the session! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Fascists! Fascists! TORRISI (AP-CpE-NCD). There were 24 senators and replies from the rapporteur and the representative of the government... [[General protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u95	Quiet, please. Senator Calderoli, I'm surprised you're a Vice President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u96	TORRISI (AP-CpE-NCD). In view of the situation, I would ask for permission to hand over the remainder of my speech to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u97	I take note of that and authorize it to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Torrisi's report, draft law No 2092, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law. Let us now turn to the other item on the agenda. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). You can't! Arrigoni (LN-Aut). You'll pay for it!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u98	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for the draft law n. 2856: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 73 of 7 June 2017 laying down urgent provisions on vaccination prevention" Mr Manconi (PD). Vile crickets! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Manconi, please. At its meeting on 14 June the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I ask the extensor of the opinion, Senator Mancuso, if he intends to intervene. Senator Mancuso, you're quitting surgery? Mr Mancuso, draftsman of the opinion. Mr President, I confirm the opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u100	Colleagues, please be quiet. That's enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u101	Senator Calderoli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u102	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, before I speak on the subject, I would like to make a point of order. You have completely disregarded the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, because you have expelled a senator from the Chamber, but he is still present. As long as they do not leave the Chamber, you are obliged to suspend the sitting. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Similarly, you, Mr President, would have been obliged to suspend the sitting if a number of Members had occupied the benches of the Government and had repeatedly displayed signs. Therefore, I ask you to restore order, suspending the sitting and allowing me to speak quietly, not obliging President Torrisi to deliver a written text, because he was prevented from speaking, as happened to Senator Mancuso. Mr President, I would ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure. When it is applied, I will take the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u103	Senator Calderoli, we proceeded after Senator Torrisi had been given the floor for the illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u104	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). That's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If Senator Volpi is still here, he will answer in the proper locations for what he has done. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, there's the Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I revocate the expulsion of Senator Volpi. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group. Ironic applause from Senators Candiani and Divina. Comments from the PD Group]] Please, Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, take it with the friendship that binds us (maybe we don't value ourselves, but we are friends), but a precedent like this only reminds me of the referee Moreno! I've never seen anything like it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When there are players who do phalluses and hide, it is clear that the referee can react in this way. [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). I'm not hiding! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When acting loyally, the referee is loyal. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Perhaps the President of the Forza Italia Group of the Chamber of Deputies, Renato Brunetta, may not be seen, but that happens with Senator Volpi seems to me just... PRESIDENT. I was surprised that Senator Volpi expressed himself in that way especially towards me. It doesn't seem to me that it fits in the style I know of Senator Volpi, with whom there is also a nice personal relationship. VOLPI (LN-Aut). That means it pissed me off! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am sorry that political agony can lead to these excesses. Let us return to the item on the agenda. Please, Senator Calderoli. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Falanga, once again, when I speak, please do not interrupt. [[Comments of Senator Falanga]] Please, Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I find it uncomfortable to speak alongside an ejected senator, but I will try to get over it and return to the substance of the matter. Before I look at the constitutional legitimacy conditions, I want to say two things that probably many of my colleagues here, who will then have to vote, do not know. Allow me, therefore, to make a few brief comments on the subject. With this measure, the number of compulsory vaccinations is increased from four to twelve. Provision is made for the impossibility of access to kindergartens or nursery schools for those who have not carried out vaccinations; at the level of compulsory schooling, there is a penalty from 500 to 7,500 euros and, if necessary, the transmission of documents to the judicial authority, in particular, to the court of minors. President, I am an adult, even a little old, I am vaccinated and I would be outlawed at the moment: I have had my son vaccinated and I strongly believe in vaccines and their beneficial effects. I come from Lombardy, the region record for vaccinations not only mandatory, but also optional, and I am proud of it. I therefore express no objection to vaccines, on the contrary. The rapporteur, in the course of the debate in the Commission, told me that what is worth in Lombardy may not apply in the rest of the country, citing the southern parts where, in his view, there is not yet a culture close to vaccination, while at the same time paralleling the culture of organ donation. This surprised me because after seeing with surprise a government intervene with a decree-law on a matter such as vaccination, I would not, Senator Mancuso, find next time a decree-law that obliges me to donate the organs and the state that makes a kind of warehouse with so many livers and hearts, in order to be able to use them as spare goods. This is not my culture, but I do not go into it. The battle in Lombardy was won thanks to a triad that has always brought great results: information, awareness and the right to freely decide. These are the conditions which I believe must be applied. With regard to whether or not the conditions of necessity and urgency have existed, Article 77 of the Constitution provides that, in exceptional cases of necessity and urgency, the Government shall adopt them. The President-in-Office of the Council said that there is no national emergency situation at the moment, and it is therefore clear that there are no factual conditions for the use of urgent decrees. Not only that. The only alarmed about the emergency situation is the Minister of Health, but not the Ministry. In fact, I remember that the data on measles, published by the epicenter and the Ministry of Health, from January to April, also decreased. So, for tabulas, the assumptions of necessity and urgency are not there. Let us now come to the other points on which the measure is based. Article 3, one of the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter, paragraph 2, states that "It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person." To me it seems curious that a government of the left, or that defines itself as such (which should therefore be more attentive and close to the weaker classes) goes to introduce not the prohibition of entry, but the payment from 500 to 7,500 euros fine. Then what is it? The rich guy goes to school and pays every year and the poor guy stays out? Is this social equality? Is this respect for Article 3 of the Constitution? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Even a far-right government would never have been able to put economic stakes in relation to a right-duty which is a fundamental principle of our Constitutional Charter. We continue with the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution which, among other things, allows - and there will be a way of having fun - the secret vote. That subparagraph shall lay down: "No one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except by legal provision. Under no circumstances may the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. And I find it even more funny if I think that those who do not pay and vaccinate the child can see themselves reported by ASL to the court of minors and see themselves, under the discretion of the judge, revoked the country authority of their son. Is it respect for the human person to take a child away from his family? Let us continue: in accordance with Article 117 of the Constitution, what we are dealing with at this time is a shared matter. No agreement was reached within the State-Regions Conference. Every time the excuse is used to include these matters within the LEA, thus bringing them back to the competence of the State. The Veneto Region - and I hope that soon Lombardy and Liguria will also do so - has raised the conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court and will win it, because it is for tabulas that they will lose this appeal. But rather than the articles of the Constitution, I believe that this measure is contrary to common sense. It is not with Manzoni's cries or with legal obligations that a person becomes aware of being vaccinated. You have to educate her, form her, make her aware and then she will vaccinate herself spontaneously. I say yes to vaccines, but no to obligations. We inform parents, let them know through family doctors what are the possible advantages and risks of vaccination, but then each decide at home. With this decree-law you will get the opposite effect. A curiosity and mistrust on the part of families are awakening, so instead of seeing the vaccination rate increase, you will see it decrease. I call everyone to common sense. It is not the political battle of a single, but we are talking about our children. Let us think carefully before resorting to Manzoni's cries that will produce nothing but disasters. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u107	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, but I have the feeling that you often neglect those on this side of the House who are asking for the floor. I think he's got an A-senators rating, B-series and down to Z. If I may, Mr President, I have not heard the rapporteur, Mr Torrisi, and I have not been able to hear his report. I have to say that I have tabled a bill on citizenship, and I shall say what I think about it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Did you not ask to speak on the order of business? I didn't get it right. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Please let me finish. As I said, I did not listen to the rapporteur's report. You said it would be filed. At the time when you incardinated that measure, you did not understand what was happening in this House: the benches of the government were occupied by colleagues of the North League and you, despite that, felt that you were achieving the aim of an incardination that is not good for that measure. You, Mr President, have had the courage to withdraw, to overcome the exception...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u108	Senator Falanga, you have taken the floor to speak on the order of business. At the moment, our work is devoted to the deliberations on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You can intervene on this issue, not on past things.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u109	Just a moment from here, with the arrogance that distinguishes her...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u110	The same arrogance you have.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u111	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). ...you will allow me to ask for the revocation of the bill on citizenship, which you gave before you even put an order in this House. [[Protests from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u112	I take note of your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u113	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). You cannot simply revoke the decision to dismiss Senator Volpi, but you must take the courage to give this Senate a minimum of restraint, otherwise we lose it to the public, because you are the maximum representative of this House. Then decide what you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u116	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, on the obligation to immunize, in my opinion, there are absolutely no constitutional problems, because health protection is also the protection of third parties, as well as the right to care. However, the decree-law would be amendable, in my opinion, on a number of points. I find, in fact, absolutely absurd, for example, the sanction of the fine: it is as if I could, paying a fine, smoke in a place where it is not allowed or I could quietly pay a building pardon; but this does not protect health any more, therefore the guiding principle of the decree-law fails. I would not worry, however, about what has been said by certain anti-vaccinist campaigns about vaccination adverse events. In fact, in the world, the various analyses (systematic review and meta-analysis Cochrane and others) document an adverse effect from vaccine on 3 million vaccinations carried out. In Italy about 500,000 children are born a year, so I can expect an adverse effect from vaccination every six years. At the same time, however, as far as measles are concerned, a thousand deaths can also occur, as occurred - in the vaccinated world, among other things - in the last year (then figures may vary). Thus, an adverse effect of every 3 million is certainly preferable to a thousand deaths in a year. Another important thing to say is that if, every year, for measles (for measles only), according to the World Health Organization, you have 130,000-170,000 deaths and in Italy, compared to other European countries, you have less coverage, under 85%, while in Europe it is 95-98 percent... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Fucksia. We are not discussing the measure on vaccines, but we are discussing the opposite opinion, which we must vote on, on the conditions of necessity and urgency. I'm sorry you prepared an intervention on vaccines. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). He's right. In my view, there is no need and urgency, but there is a need to regulate the matter in detail, not with necessity and urgency. There is a need to standardize and repair a bias that our country has. Many times we have discussed urgent issues that were not and surely there is something more urgent. We can clarify the measure and then detail it in terms. There is a need for clarity. The longer we prolong the time of uncertainty, the more we do not clarify the situation and the more disinformation moves towards an avalanche. So, from this point of view, there may be an urgent need to clarify, but not to urgently set up the obligation, by September, because we are not prepared to do so. From this point of view, as you say, the speech enters into the substance of the decree-law issued and of the amending proposals. For me it is safe to proceed - and I am therefore in favour of it - provided that we then discuss the measure in this House and make sure that it is amended correctly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u119	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we would have time and opportunity to discuss the substance of this decree-law. I'll get right to the point. As far as we are concerned, we confirm our vote against, which we expressed in the first Commission, on the conditions of necessity and urgency, because honestly, Mr President, we do not believe that the conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution are met. If there was an emergency, I think everything would have been justified. But the health emergency had to be proclaimed on the basis of the data and, therefore, with a responsibility in this sense on the part of the Minister. The data that have been reported to date tell us, however, as far as measles are concerned, that we are below the desired coverage, that is to say we are below the 95% threshold, but that is not the case with the other diseases for which the obligation has been extended. From this point of view, the data are not such as to call an emergency for the country. In confirming our vote against, Mr President, I conclude by saying that vaccination scepticism - as the World Health Organization has also called it - can be fought not with operations like this, but only through a great work of information strategy and the involvement of families. On the other hand, we have the impression that the decree-law in question will have the opposite effect. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u122	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, before entering into the question of the constitutional presuppositions on the vaccine decree-law, the value of the debate must be clarified: we are discussing not the usefulness of vaccines, but how the government intervenes on such a sensitive matter. The 5 Star Movement has developed its proposals for a modern vaccination system, based on scientific evidence and in line with the best practices of the most advanced countries. [[Comments from the PD Group]] On the other hand, the Government has "calated" a legislative provision that the Constitution admits only under limited and exceptional conditions. We are here to discuss the constitutionality of this instrument. The decrees-laws derive their legitimacy from extraordinary cases and are destined to operate immediately, in order to deal with urgent and urgent needs. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 171 of 2007, noted that it is not enough that the necessity and urgency are apodictically stated, but rather that there is a real and concrete need for urgent regulatory intervention: in short, there must be an epidemic or a pronounced risk of epidemic. Article 1 of the measure provides, for children aged between zero and sixteen years, for the mandatory 12 types of vaccinations, trebling the number of compulsory vaccines currently planned. In this regard, it should be noted that the requirements of necessity and urgency, as set out in Article 77 of the Constitution, which we see here, should, therefore, entangle the whole range of vaccines mentioned, assuming an overall epidemiological event, concerning diseases which are intended to prevent and/or combat. We should have 12 emergencies. We should think that the entire epidemiological surveillance system in our country has failed and you should first ask for the immediate resignation of Minister Lorenzin. The cogency of an epidemic in progress (or, more specifically, of more epidemics in progress) is, however, refuted by the same plan vaccines, issued precisely by the Ministry of Health that, in January 2017, did not show any kind of emergency, nor epidemic. It may be objected that the plan dates back to the distant month of January, but the President of the Council himself, when presenting the decree-law in question, stated that there was no national emergency. Therefore, the necessity and urgency of such a decree is an invention and proves it, if ever needed, the same process of approval of the decree-law, to say the least ridiculous. I remember a few dates in this regard. On Thursday 11 May Minister Lorenzin announced a decree-law on vaccines and on 11 May the Government formally intervened stating that the next day there would be no decree-law on vaccines on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. On Friday 12 May the Council of Ministers examined a draft of the Decree-Law. On Friday, May 19, after a week, the Council of Ministers approves the decree-law, but the text remains ghost and internal polemics break out in the Government, with Minister Fedeli contesting the violation of the right to study. Wednesday 7 June the decree is published in the Official Journal: 18 days later. If there is an epidemic - but even if there were twelve epidemics - why wait eighteen days, in which thousands of people could die or become infected? More credible is that the time has taken for internal negotiations and to cover, but not entirely, the pudenda of the government. At this point it is clear that the needs and urgency are imaginative hypotheses, and the more well-founded it would be, then, to request the resignation of the entire Council of Ministers for cause of alarm. But that's not all. Connected to the constitutional requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution is the criterion of reasonableness, linked in turn to that of proportionality. To introduce the obligatory vaccination for an abnormal quantity of vaccines - there is no similar case throughout Europe - through the decree of urgency contrasts, in fact, directly and indirectly also with the principle of reasonableness, as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution. The provision of twelve compulsory vaccination treatments is not proportionate to the result announced or to the objective pursued by the legislator. Furthermore, the constitutional requirements for the issuing of a decree-law... Senator Endrizzi, finish your speech. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, don't I have ten minutes? I'm sorry, but he's making me lose it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not interrupting you anymore, but I'm done. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, it has not been ten minutes. Please be correct. I said that the urgent decree is directly and indirectly contrary to the principle of reasonableness. In relation to Article 32 of the Constitution, I recall that no one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except by law. But the law is bound in this sense, because under no circumstances can the limits imposed by the respect of the human person be violated. And a measure that compresses freedom by imposing obligation of care should be certain, ordinary, stable, shared, directly approved by Parliament and not a decree-law which, by its nature, is provisional. The adoption of such a measure in view of the new school year triggers an obligation on families. Nurses and kindergartens are preparing to ask for the certifications of vaccinations; we will have families forced to vaccinate without guarantee that the decree-law will be converted (i.e. into what form will be converted), penalty the refusal of registration. Already the sanction is unreasonable: admitted and not allowed that rejecting twelve vaccinations in block constitutes omitted protection for a minor and not, instead, the protection from a stressful event for an immature immune system, is absurd a sanction that falls precisely on children and deprives them of the right to attend kindergartens and nursery schools. Nor can a general and superficial defence of the right to health for other children be given to vaccinations which are of considerable importance in childhood (hepper B) or any infectious risk (antithetanic). And it is resounding that there is a sanction that falls upon them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You are intervening on the substance, Senator Endrizzi, while you must confine yourself to intervening on the necessity and urgency of the measure. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'm talking about the unreasonableness of Article 77 of the Constitution. Mr President, you also said that you would no longer interrupt me. And it is the Government itself that reveals the incongruous construct, where it triggers the prohibition of enrolment for nursery schools and not for primary or secondary schools, as if the government felt - and I am referring to hepatitis B - more likely the exchange of syringes, transfusions in class or sexual relations between children than preteens. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). What's that got to do with anything? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Shame on you. It is you who create this paradox, and not me who denounce it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u123	Senator Endrizzi, I invited you to speak on necessity and urgency, as requested by the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u124	ENDRIZZI (M5S). It is clear that this measure has as its aim not health protection, but the fact of covering the absurdity of the Government, which was creating a contrast even between compulsory schooling and compulsory vaccination, as if the school were not also a right, the same right for a child and for a boy. And now I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. In several points, there appear to be breaches of the conditions of necessity and urgency, as well as of the principles of reasonableness and proportionality related to them. It is clear that the instrument of the decree is being abused, and we have voted against it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have brought the debate to this House to make it clear to the Italians how the Government intervenes on very sensitive issues such as health, right and freedom of care, the family, the protection of minors, the right to health and education. The debate must be removed from the government's propaganda appetites and dealt with with with responsibility, legal and scientific rigour. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] The 5 Star Movement - I repeat - has already developed its proposals for a modern, effective and best practice-based vaccination system at international level. MIRABELLI (PD). We read them! ENDRIZZI (M5S). And he calls the government and the majority to a serious and not hasty parliamentary confrontation, as you would like. It therefore votes against the conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u126	I apologise if I did not give you the floor earlier, but I had interpreted your request for intervention as relating to the subject we are dealing with and not to the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u127	You have the floor, Senator Augello. AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, unfortunately, it can happen that they are not seen. I asked to speak on a point of order exactly one minute before Senator Calderoli asked for it. And the content of my point of order was not only on the same article as Senator Calderoli, which we can consider concluded with the curious revocation of the measure you made. President, I have great respect for your institutional role and, of course, for your person. I am not, however, available - and I believe like myself many other colleagues - to ignore the fact that some precedents were launched a few minutes ago, that we must consider an emotional parenthesis of our habit of working in this House. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Even more marvellous is the principle that you, who are the President of the Senate and to whom I must teach nothing, invited Mr Torrisi, who was rapporteur, after three times simply recited the title of your report, to conclude. President, if I were the rapporteur and you did such a thing [[Comments from the Mixed Group-SI-SEL]] , I would not take it with philosophy, either because I am the rapporteur and I must be able to do so in a Chamber where....
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u128	Excuse me, Senator Augello, but he was not the rapporteur: he was the President of the Commission who reported on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u129	AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). It is the same, Mr President, because you know very well that, being President and without rapporteur... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, if you get to talk about the order of business... AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mine is a point of order, Mr President. I am asking you in what capacity, and under what Rule of the Rules of Procedure, you think it is conceivable as President to call on the President of the Commission who replaced the rapporteur to conclude his speech, because the rapporteur is not there, or a rapporteur. As far as you can consult the Rules of Procedure, you would not find such an article, and so it is not in your powers. And less than ever it is in his powers to have Senator Torrisi do the intervention in a Maracanà in which you play catch paper between parliamentary assistants and senators who are carrying out a protest. It is not understandable which article of the Rules of Procedure allows you to use the suspension mechanism with the elasticity you used. I conclude by saying that they are all dangerous precedents. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] You understand that if we enter the order of ideas that I can address you in that way and then you can revoke my expulsion, this place becomes the Baggage. [[Applause from Senators Engili and Rizzotti]] I would sincerely ask you to take this speech into account, with all due respect, and not as a play in which you are a teacher on the Rules of Procedure. We need to reflect on what has happened today, because it can no longer happen, Mr President. It doesn't have to happen anymore. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u132	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all, I would like to point out that the Group of the European Forza Italia Group considers vaccination prophylaxis to be a useful and indispensable tool for the health of citizens. However, we are not discussing whether vaccines should be done or not, as you rightly pointed out during the intervention of another colleague, but we are discussing whether the conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution for a decree-law on this subject are met. The President of the Council said no, even if not directly. He said that there is neither a medical emergency nor an epidemic, and there is no mention of it anywhere. He said that they are not there because they are not there, and that is why the President-in-Office's very authoritative words are enough to ensure that the conditions are not met. The Constitution speaks of cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency, and not when one is in a hurry or when the newspapers talk so much about a subject. There are aspects of the decree-law in question - I was going to say draft law, because it should be so - that we share, such as Article 2, which talks about information to families. We believe, however, not only that in this case there are no prerequisites, but that there are even all the reasons for opting not for a decree-law but for a bill, which must be dealt with knowing the issues. We are talking here about the health of people, both those who must be vaccinated and those who can be infected. Is there a statistics on 12 compulsory vaccinations in the world? There is no such thing, because there is no country in the world that imposes 12 compulsory vaccinations. We are in favour of vaccination, but as long as we have a minimum of scientific, medical and experimental knowledge of the need to introduce the obligation for so many vaccines. And with one of them, the one for chicken pox, I recently had to deal with it personally. There are hundreds, thousands of doctors, many of them pediatricians, who do not recommend, rather they do not recommend vaccination against chickenpox. Well, from today to tomorrow it is discovered that such vaccination is compulsory and the State risks abducting children to those who do not fulfil this obligation. This is the point that really outrages me personally and I think I'm certainly not the only one. Article 1, paragraph 5, requires families to impose a higher number of vaccines on their children than any other country in the world. Otherwise, one risks that the State, taking advantage of this - this is the typical way - will take away the children to those who brought them to school, confident that they have entrusted them in hands that take care of them. The state can pick them up from school and take them to a place that doesn't tell you what it is, as with the dictatorships of South America that took the poor people away. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is Article 403 of the Civil Code, which I have been calling for for years to be amended, and instead a decree-law is made on it. We don't play with children's health as an excuse to give the state an incredible power that no one should have, to take the children away from their parents. Then there are other inconsistencies in the decree-law. There is absolute obligatoryness for completely optional institutions such as kindergarten and nursery school, while there is an obligatory restraint for compulsory school. I understand the justifications from the point of view of compulsory school, but here you are making a decree-law. [[Senator Malan's microphone flashes.]] I'm sorry, but I find it completely out of place for my microphone to flash, because I've been talking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u133	Excuse me, Senator Malan, but we have a joint sitting in the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u134	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Then I must continue my speech at a forthcoming sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can continue your speech when the debate is followed up. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you for considering me as exhaustive, but I am more modest and I think I need ten minutes like the others to express a thought. I was saying we're not discussing compulsory school here, so there's no need for a decree. We're discussing a health issue. If it is a matter of health, it should be studied better and written something that is not manifestly illogical. And then I ask: where is the logic in imposing 12 vaccines on children, which - I repeat - are more than those that any other country inside and outside the European Union imposes, when, also thanks to the measure you have just incardinated, they make themselves come to Italy, taking them directly from the African coasts, hundreds of thousands of people who - according to the statistics of the World Health Organization - are at high or very high risk of infections? That's why everything is fine, while a parent, who maybe hesitates to give his child the vaccine that the week before his pediatrician had advised him not, we take the child away. WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). It's not about that! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). This has something to do with it, Mrs. Parent Company! What's the point of doing this? I remember that there is no vaccination obligation in those countries and there is no plan to vaccinate children, children and adults. Schizophrenia, which is indicative of a problematic thought from the inside of the skull or which probably becomes problematic for wanting to make a proclamation here and there, to satisfy this and that. The result, however, is a truly uncomfortable picture of a total contempt for logic, for families and Italians, who are the victims of a Government that, with article 1, paragraph 5, considers itself the owner of children [[Applause from Senator Council.]] The state is not the master! The State must be the one who guarantees and protects families and children. He is not the master, he was not, he should never have been, and he was not even in some dictatorships. It was when the firstborn were sacrificed to idols! This is the idol of the state and I don't want to sacrifice even one fingernail of a child! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u135	Appreciated the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the debate on the resolution to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u136	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-840.ana.u137	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 20 June, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.04 a.m.
