ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 10 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u3	The next item is the question and questions. The first will be the questioning 2-00359 on support measures for Italian fruit and vegetables. I call Senator Padua to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u4	Mr President, I shall be reading this question about measures to support our country's fruit and vegetable products. In view of the fact that the market for fruit and vegetables is one of the pillars of the agri-food sector, the basic pillar of the Italian economy and tradition, and that it is necessary to mention in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, and in the case of non-agricultural products, in the case of non-agricultural products, in particular Articles 34 and 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; one priority aspect is to ensure the safety and quality of agricultural products placed on national markets; in this regard, the legislative decree of 18 May 2001, n° 228, laying down measures to encourage small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises, in particular, in the case of the agricultural sector, is currently affected by the effects of activities, also from the point of health, the promotion of appropriate food traceability and providing specific standards on quality and quality and quality (Article 21), and particularly in the case of agricultural enterprises, particularly has been expressed in the situation, particularly in the case of the case of agriculture, particularly in the case of the case of the case of the case of agricultural sector, which has been expressed in the situation, particularly in the situation which has been affected in the situation, in the situation, in the situation, particularly in the situation which has been affected by the situation, which has been affected by the situation in the case of the Having said that, it is asked to know: how the Minister in address intends to promote appropriate support measures for companies operating in the fruit and vegetable sector, with a view to restoring effective competitiveness and with particular attention to the southern ones, also in accordance with Community legislation on State aid; whether he does not intend to take prompt action, at the appropriate locations, in order to adopt measures aimed at providing for greater rigour on which I can strongly insist in the procedures for monitoring health and hygiene standards on imported fruit and vegetables, especially from North Africa, so that special attention is paid to the protection of the health of consumers and to compliance with the legislation on labelling of imported products; whether he intends to promote a table of comparison with the southern regions and not only union regions and trade associations, in order to address the major problems of the fruit and vegetable sector and to prepare a multiannual plan for relaunching anddevelopment , in order to identify concrete ways of protecting and relaunchingproducts , companies and localmarkets ; if he does not intend to encourage measures to support proper foodeducation. All this in addition, as a result and in order to fulfil the commitments we have made in this House, which the Government has made: I remember the Expo and the important commitment that has been made with the Milan Charter, or the law against food waste that we have approved in Parliament, where there is an important part that concerns education, the provision of right information to consumers, starting with the smallest ones, on how to really feed themselves. All this is in accordance with what was established in Paris: let us think about the agreements on climate change and the consequences that this entails. I do not go out of the question if we think that everything is a system: the environment is a system, as well as energy; everything is a matter of food production and we know how all this will fall on the health of citizens and citizens. As a result of all that I have just said and of the clear and precise choices that have been made with the norms already produced, in a very important way in my opinion, not only for the part that concerns the gift, which is also very important, but also for the part that concerns food education, we must move from words to facts and this can help in a decisive way the recovery of the good, extraordinary agriculture that our country can put as a flagship and, let me remember, that the southern regions and the coastal belt of my island produce in an excellent way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that a valuable tool to deal with the difficulties raised by the questioner, who is always attentive and timely on these issues, in relation to the fruit and vegetable sector, is the support of associationism within the framework of the Common Market Organisation (CMO). It is a support scheme aimed at enhancing the competitiveness of the sector through the concentration of supply, the improvement of product quality and marketing conditions, the optimisation of production costs, promotion actions and specific crisis prevention and management measures. In this direction, there is provision for the financing of programmes of activities carried out by recognised producer organisations (with a general European aid of 50% which, in some cases, can be as high as 100%) for the implementation of multiple interventions, including specific measures to deal with difficult market conditions. However, the effectiveness of these instruments is linked to the propensity to aggregate producers who in some regions, in particular the southern ones mentioned by the questioner, appear to be still too low, slightly exceeding the level of 20%. In this context, the national strategy for the fruit and vegetable sector is the basic policy instrument, and thus the synthesis of the needs of the sector for which the producer organisations recognised under European regulations are the operational means of achieving the general objectives they aim to achieve. In this respect, it is clear that, with a view to revising the current strategy, we have already engaged in consultation with the supply chain and all its representations to define the new guidelines to be implemented in the coming years. This is a further opportunity to assess all the needs of the productive world and to respond more effectively to the problems and challenges described in the interview. With regard to the crisis in the fruit and vegetable sector in the so-called transformed band, which revolves around the fruit and vegetable market in Vittoria, I note that the high-level discussion table that we have called for with the Sicilian operators and the regional administration, has led us to ask the European Commission to activate the safeguard clause provided for by the current trade agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco. I would remind you that in order to counter the effects on the exports of fruit and vegetables produced by the Russian embargo, the European Commission, also under pressure from Italy, has introduced exceptional support measures for all fruit and vegetable producers, whether or not associated with producer organisations, allowing, within certain volumes allocated to the Member States, withdrawal from the market, non-harvesting and harvesting before the ripening of certain fruit and vegetable products. Even at our request, last June the European Commission extended beyond 30 June 2016, for a further year, the end of the exceptional measures adopted so far. For Italy, the total quota allocated is about 17,000 tonnes, of which more than 95 percent was already used on 31 December 2016. As regards the procedures for the control of hygiene and health standards on imported fruit and vegetables, also from North Africa, it is clear that the Ministry of Health carries out checks on all consignments imported through the Italian customs points of entry, with sampling for analytical control of at least 5% of the consignments. Specific initiatives and controls have been activated in particular sectors against greater risks in the past year. It should also be borne in mind that for the verification of compliance with the quality standards established at European level, including the correct indication of origin, there are precise European and national provisions which, based on a risk analysis carried out by EFSA, taking into account also the origin of the product, contribute to improving the transparency of the market and any criticalities found therein. With regard to the promotion of proper food education, I would point out that, since 2009, with the European programme "Frutta in scuola" (School Fruit), which has also been implemented with national resources and intended for primary school children, we have involved more than one million children a year throughout the national territory, with an average annual total allocation of around €33.5 million. This programme aims to improve the eating habits of school children through the distribution of fruit and vegetables, complemented by accompanying measures that make consumption more effective through knowledge of products, territory and the environment. From next school year, this programme will be unified to that on the distribution of milk in schools. In the course of this year, we also intend to implement a second programming cycle of the integrated institutional communication campaign "The quality of agri-food products" already diffused on the main media between November 2015 and January 2016; the aim is to promote knowledge of the quality agri-food heritage and enhance products with a designation of origin and geographical indication, with a view to providing a consumer orientation towards healthy and conscious food and quality and food safety choices. I would like to point out that, in order to re-veil the campaign during the first four months of 2017 on the main media, advertising space has already been purchased from dealers identified in the media plan drawn up by the publishing information department at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u8	PADUA (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I can only be happy with what I have heard. In particular, I am very pleased with the table, which I knew was set up, about the problem linked to the largest market in the South, which is that of Victoria, and therefore to the whole related band. I only hope that these meetings will be more and more frequent, precisely in order to get to know the central state of what the local realities are, because often the difficulty lies in the communication between the base and the centre. But if the establishment of these tables is structural and not contingent, then it is a process that continues; it is not an exceptional occasion, but a path to be taken and taken together. I believe that this is one of the most important elements. I am pleased with what you have said, Mr Undersecretary, but I call for more and more controls of this kind for what is the second point to be emphasized, namely the safety factor, which primarily concerns the protection of our health. We know very well how food is related to our state of health. They say we're what we eat. It is precisely so, also because if we avoid using those substances that we know have a potential for toxicity, not only at the moment, but also in time, because the effects can be manifested after years, unfortunately, and therefore without seeing immediately the danger, if we control all this, we not only preserve our health (and therefore the State for everything that should then do if this was not preserved), but we help to value our extraordinary products more and more without demonizing others. Let the other products come, but let them use, if they come to our country, the same rules that we strictly respect, because it is right to respect the norms that are there, but they must respect them all, not only those who live in our country, but also those who want to come there. One last aspect of which I am very pleased: I knew of the first institutional campaign cycle that had been promoted and now I am glad that there is a second one, because if it is true, as it is true, that children are somehow the trainers of us adults, it is true that we must also reach adults and not only through children, but also through institutional campaigns. I also remember the campaigns carried out at the large retailers for the promotion of our product, which often - as I said just now in the interview and I repeat - farmers cannot even collect, because they do not have the money to pay for the collection and bring it to the market, while I citizen, who live in a big city and I go to buy this product, I cannot buy it because I no longer have the money, because it is not enough since the product, it is too expensive. We must reduce the supply chain and ensure that we can really continue to choose and promote our product by remembering the zero kilometre campaign.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u9	Following is the question 3-03316 on the protection of the Prosecco DOC del Carso. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that, on 2 May 2016, an important coordination action was launched with the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region and the associations of wine producers in the Karst region, at a special meeting in Trieste. At this meeting, Minister Martina had the opportunity to represent the Ministry's full willingness to evaluate concrete projects for the valorization of the wine-growing territory of the Karst and promotional projects of the wines in question (Prosecco, Vitoska, Malvasia, Terrano) when they were to arrive from the associations of wine producers of the Karst, rather than to proceed to the initialization of a new protocol of understanding, which is a tool that tends to reduce responsibility both producers and institutions, in the light of past history that has seen the instances contained in previous protocols disappeared, unfortunately. These projects should be part of the specific financial support and promotional measures envisaged for the wine sector by the existing Common Market Organisation for Agricultural Products. Moreover, on 30 November last, in the context of a dedicated conference of services, convened by the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy to examine the requests relating to the proposal for recognition of the designation of controlled origin of wines "Venezie", presented by two associations of wine producers of the Trieste Karst, the council member of the agricultural policies of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region has reiterated his commitment to start technical tables with the organizations of category of the territory in order to develop the wine peculiarities of the Karst area. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will accompany these initiatives and support them so that producers can be given a real response. Finally, it will be the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies and the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia to support the initiatives already undertaken by the producers of the Karst, aimed at the valorization of the wine "Teran" through the recognition of the protected designation of origin cross-border Italy-Slovenia, as well as for any other cooperation actions with neighbouring countries aimed at the development of the quality wine sector. Precisely because of this need for specific cooperation, a bilateral meeting with the Republic of Slovenia is planned in the coming weeks to address the issues and further relaunch this important cross-border initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u13	PHASE (PD). Mr President, Undersecretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I certainly was - as the question suggests - in favour of the reproposition of the protocol because a protocol is something written and I am mindful of the ancient and wise Latin saying: verba volant, scripta manent. However, I take note of the firm will of both the Ministry and the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, which is so active in relation to these problems, to constitute in short time technical tables, of which I am learning now. It seems absolutely fundamental to realize and continue a work of cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia to go not only to heal, but to prevent phenomena as unpleasant as the internal struggles for names. See the question of wine Teran. A relationship of cross-border cooperation is absolutely the basis of a happy development of relations between countries, but above all fundamental for the maintenance of the high quality of a product. I believe that this path will increasingly have to be translated into concrete facts. I hope that the checks, as my colleague said about the previous questioning, will continue. Direct checks are very important to carry out a path in synergy with categories, associations of farmers and, above all, in synergy between the State and the Region. The problems are of considerable importance and must be addressed. We must tackle the problem of the coast, which is unfortunately slipping towards the sea, and especially farmers who are doing heroic work must be supported. They are not rhetorical words, because we talk technically about heroic agriculture when it takes place on the terraces. This type of agriculture is poorly recognized and has very relative revenues, if we think about the Karst territory. It must therefore be fully recognised. We will happily monitor this path together. As of now, I call on the Government to come and verify further the processes and to confront the world of agriculture and wine.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u14	Senator Fasiolo, the Presidency will also be happy to check the state of implementation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u15	Mr President, I would remind you that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport interprets international and Community regulations taking account of the interests of users, in line with the international obligations to which it must respond as a flag State. Moreover, for years the politics is that to preserve the occupation of the Italian marine ones, putting them like all the international workers and allowing them to spend own certifications in all the Countries of the world forming part of the Convention STCW ( Standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers). With regard, however, to the military experience gained for the attainment of the civil title, as in the case of the officers of the Navy, I emphasize that the STCW Convention '78, in its updated version, excludes from its scope the military ships and consequently the military navigation carried out. The military ships have therefore been excluded also from the scope of the legislative decree 12 May 2015, n. 71 (article 1, paragraph 1, letter a)). Moreover, the Ministerial Decree 25 July 2016 applies, as provided for in Article 1, paragraph 2, to seafarers registered in the freshmen of Italian seafarers who intend to embark on merchant ships subject to the provisions of the STCW Convention, pursuant to Article 115 of the Navigation Code, and therefore military navigation is excluded. For the above, it is not previewed the possibility of renewal of certificates of competence IMO not even for the equivalent functions previewed from article 7 of the ministerial decree 1° March 2015 for officers in service in the Navy. Finally, I would like to point out that the implementation of the Community's international standards adopted by Italy has received the European Commission's approval, which has submitted the relevant offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to two monitoring audits, leading to the closure of open infringement procedures.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u18	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, which will also give me the opportunity to deepen international legislation. This question arose from some warnings, in which I was subjected to this lack of recognition of the military qualification. I also make a reference: a former officer, car manager, has been recognized as an officer of the machine, when the hierarchy includes official student of the machine, officer of the machine, first officer of the machine and director of the machine. I would like to point out that military personnel are still highly qualified; I was able to see this in person during the visits I made to military structures and I can say that they have perhaps higher qualifications than in the civil field. Often they are people who have a double degree. I have had the opportunity to see closely the personnel involved in our underwater component, which, in fact, in addition to operating under particularly poor conditions, is very qualified and above all is found to work in a much more difficult field of civilization. Your reply, Mr. Undersecretary, will also give me the opportunity to speak to the Government, hoping, if possible, for greater coordination with the Ministry of Defence. This could also be the occasion for a confrontation with the various countries, because I have a little 'of difficulty to see this lack of recognition. An officer who has a high level of experience, if he no longer works in the military sector, would see himself totally deprived of the qualification he achieved with a considerable sacrifice, with years of study and often forced to work under particularly poor conditions. However, I thank the Government for its response and hope that there will be this coordination, perhaps even at international level, to review international legislation as possible and to give the right recognition and qualification to our military personnel. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u19	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-740.ana.u20	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.34 p.m.
