ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document III, No 2. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly the revocation of the parliamentary mandate, for reasons of incandidability, of Senator Augusto Minzolini, pursuant to article 3, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree no. 235 of 31 December 2012. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, whether she intends to intervene to supplement the written report. [[Brusio.]] I invite the senators to move so that I can see Senator Lo Moro coming in.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u5	Mr President, the case on the agenda was dealt with many months ago by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which also prompts me to speak about the sensitivity of the case and the consequences of a possible vote in favour of the proposal that I shall make. I would therefore prefer to read the report, if not entirely of its most important parts, especially to make my colleagues aware of the facts that are the subject of our assessment. On the other hand, I will skip the parties - at the disposal of my colleagues - which are not particularly relevant, especially because we have also dealt with defence issues in the report, but not necessary for the decision. So I'm gonna skip that part. I would also point out that the report which I shall give a partial reading of is the report submitted to the Junta at its last useful sitting on 27 July and then submitted to it. Of course there is no record here of the fact that - and this is why I say this at the outset - in accordance with Rule 17 (4) of the Rules of Procedure for the Verification of Credentials, this report was adopted by a majority by the Junta at its sitting on 27 July, which confirmed the proposal, so we forwarded the report to the outcome of this further vote by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. In conclusion, the proposal that I make today to the Assembly is that the revocation from the parliamentary mandate, for reasons of incandidability, of Senator Augusto Minzolini, elected in the Liguria Region, pursuant to article 3, paragraph 1, of legislative decree 31 December 2012, n. 235, be deliberated. These, then, are the conclusions and this is the proposal. I would now turn to the illustration as quickly as possible, but if you, Mr President, or my fellow Group leaders think that you can do without reading the report, I am happy to do so, because I see a little distraction. I am doing this as a guarantee of Mr Minzolini's, so that this House can be adopted. [[Brusio. References by the President]] By judgment No 7436 of 27 October 2014, the Court of Appeal of Rome, Section III, in reform of the judgment of first instance, sentenced Senator Minzolini for the offence of flaw continued to the sentence of two years and six months of imprisonment, as well as the ancillary penalty of the ban from public offices for the same duration. By judgment No 1511 of 12 November 2015, the Court of Cassation rejected the appeal brought by Senator Minzolini; therefore the judgment of second instance became final. It is considered useful to provide a preliminary summary of the case that Mr Minzolini has invested in for events that took place from July 2009 to November 2010. The facts refer to the improper use of the corporate credit card of which Senator Minzolini had availability as director of TG1 RAI and therefore as public service officer; in particular the use of the card took place for personal expenses and in any case not relevant to the service, with the appropriation of the total sum of 65,341,33 euros. It is recalled that the ordinary court of Rome, Section VI, with judgment No 3014 of 14 February 2013, had acquitted Senator Minzolini from the crime ascribed to him with the formula \ because the fact does not constitute a crime }. The decision of the appeal court to which I referred, on the other hand, reformed the judgment of first instance and declared Augusto Minzolini guilty of the crime of continuous sin and, granted the general mitigating circumstances, sentenced him to the sentence of two years and six months of imprisonment, as well as to the ancillary penalty of the ban from public offices for the same duration. The crime for which the conviction occurred is the one referred to in Article 317- bis of the penal code, of which the content is not explicit, because there is no need. On 12 November 2015, the Court of Cassation rejected the appeal brought by Senator Minzolini. The judgments of first and second instance and the judgment of the Cassation were, of course, acquired in the proceedings. We now come to the point that involves us; the historical and procedural reconstruction serves to know what we are talking about, but we refer to events and events prior to the beginning of the legislature and which concern Minzolini not as a senator of the Republic, but as director of TG1. Pursuant to Article 3 of Legislative Decree No. 235 of 31 December 2012 laying down provisions on the incandidability and prohibition of performing elective and government positions resulting from final sentences of conviction for non-poisonous crimes, pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 63, of Law No. 190 of 6 November 2012 (so-called Severino Law), on March 4, 2016, the General Prosecutor of the Court of Appeal of Rome transmitted to the Senate the judgment of the Court of Appeal of Rome which became final on November 12, 2015. On 8 March last year, the President of the Senate referred the matter to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. The reference legislation is contained in Legislative Decree No. 235 of 2012. In particular, according to article 1, paragraph 1, letter b) of the aforementioned decree (entered into force on January 5, 2013), they cannot be candidates and can not in any case hold the office of deputy and senator who have reported final sentences to penalties greater than two years of imprisonment for the crimes, consumed or attempted, provided for in book II, title II, chapter I, of the penal code. In the present case, Senator Minzolini (elected in the Liguria Region) was definitively sentenced to two and six months of imprisonment; the (perpetual) offence charged to him is covered in Book II, Title II (of crimes against public administration), Chapter I (of crimes against public administration) of the Criminal Code, Article 314, which reads in the current version: The public official or the public service officer, who, having for reasons of his office or service the possession or in any case the availability of money or other mobile thing, appropriates it, is punished with imprisonment from four years to ten years and six months. The sentence of imprisonment is applied from six months to three years when the perpetrator acted for the sole purpose of making momentary use of the thing, and this, after the momentary use, was returned immediately. It is specified that the minimum of the sentence has been brought from three to four years of imprisonment (otherwise we would be surprised in the calculations) from article 1, paragraph 75, letter c) of the law n. 190 of 2012 (at the time of the facts was instead of three years). The penalty, therefore, was commensurate with that provided for in the code at the time of the facts. Moreover, Article 3, paragraph 1, of the same legislative decree, in the case of incandidability which occurred during the parliamentary elective mandate, expressly provides that "if a cause of incandidability referred to in Article 1 survives or in any case is established in the course of the elective mandate, the Chamber of belonging shall deliberate pursuant to Article 66 of the Constitution (and that is why we are discussing it today in the Chamber). To this end, the final sentences of conviction referred to in Article 1, issued in respect of MPs or senators in office, shall be communicated immediately by the public prosecutor to the court referred to in Article 665 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to the Chamber of their respective members. It is also recalled that two other provisions contained in the aforementioned legislative decree: Article 13, paragraph 1, on the duration of the incandidability, provides that the incandidability to the office of Member, Senator and member of the European Parliament due to Italy, deriving from the final sentence for the crimes referred to in Article 1, starts from the date of the passage in court of the judgment and takes effect for a period corresponding to twice the duration of the ancillary penalty of the temporary prohibition by the public offices imposed by the judge. In any case, the incandidability, even in the absence of the ancillary penalty, is not less than six years. With reference then to the relationship between the incandidability and the application of the ancillary penalty of temporary prohibition from public offices, I recall that article 15, paragraph 2, specifies that the incandidability governed by this single text produces its effects regardless of the limitation of the right of active and passive electorate resulting from the application of the ancillary penalty of temporary prohibition from public offices or of one of the measures of prevention or security referred to in Article 2 (b) and (c) of the single text of the laws for the discipline of the active electorate and for the holding and revision of the electoral lists referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic 20 March 1967, n. 223. These are the rules to be used as a reference to fully understand how the facts have occurred and what the rules we are applying are. The Council met from its meeting on 23 March 2016 (I remember that on 8 March President Grasso had communicated to us the acts), in which the introductory report was presented. At its meeting on 26 April, Senator Minzolini was heard, who presented defensive memory on 11 April 2016, supplemented, on 17 May 2016, with the transmission of the copy of the appeal, presented by the same Senator, to the European Court of Human Rights. At the next sitting of 18 May, the final proposal was made to ascertain the incandidability of Senator Minzolini, pursuant to Articles 1, 3 and 13 of Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012, and, therefore, the existence of a cause of forfeiture, thus justifying the contestation of his election and not considering the main request made by Senator Minzolini - concerning the disapplication of the effects of the judgment of conviction that concerns him - nor the subordinate ones that requested a suspension of these proceedings and a preliminary referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union by this Junta. The general discussion which continued at the next meeting on 25 May was then opened and concluded at the meeting on 8 June 2016, when the Junta approved the above-mentioned proposal by a majority. In the course of the debate in Giunta, opposite guidelines emerged, the first of which, in line with the arguments put forward by the defence of the senator concerned, opposed to the application of the cause of revocation. According to this thesis, in the light of Article 66 of the Constitution, it must exclude the automatic and ratificationary character of the decision of the Junta in relation to the decadence of a parliamentarians who has reported a final sentence to penalties greater than two years of imprisonment for the crimes, consumed or attempted, according to the provision of legislative decree n. 235 of 2012; therefore the Junta, although not having to enter into the merit of the judicial decision, should focus on the procedural aspects of the decision itself in order to assess possible violations of national and supranational legislation. In the present case, a breach of the principle of fair trial has been envisaged in the part in which the judges of the court of appeal have reformed the judgment of acquittal issued by the court of first instance without proceeding to a new hearing of the witnesses, as well as the violation of the rights to the defense and to an independent and impartial judge, as well as the principle of irretroactivity of the criminal rules, the latter principle applicable in the case in question given the sanctioning nature of the decadence, institute entered into force from 2013, when instead the facts ascribed to Senator Minzolini took place from July 2009 to November 2010. I am explaining all these elements well knowing that this House has already dealt with them in the Berlusconi case, but I believe that every case must be respected as a case in its own right. The second guideline, the prevailing result, was expressed in a sense contrary to the arguments put forward by the senator concerned, as well as to the requests made by them, both in the main and subordinate way and, therefore, in favour of the application of the cause of revocation: according to this thesis, also taking into account the previous determinations that the Junta adopted at the beginning of this legislature and to which it cannot be put back, the parliamentary body is not responsible for any further procedural union to the one already consolidated in the judicial offices responsible for the result of a judgment that has become definitive, being the same Junta called only to a serious and scrupulous recognition of the premises provided for in Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012 for the application of the institution of the incandidability which has occurred and the consequent decline from the parliamentary mandate, decadence which, by virtue of a consolidated jurisprudence, does not constitute a sanction or a criminal effect of the sentence, but the consequence of the lack of a subjective requirement for access to the elective offices or for their maintenance, within the meaning of Article 51 (1) of the Constitution (which confers the power to lay down the requirements of the Constitution, as laid down by Article 25, the second paragraph). The requirements concerning the development of the public session require the completion of the conflict between the parties provided for in Chapter IV of the Regulation for the verification of powers for the purposes of the electoral dispute procedure, which can therefore be defined as the dialectical procedure required. On the basis of several and unique previous elections in the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, Roberto Cassinelli, deputy of the XVI legislature, was therefore identified as a counterinterested party, as the first candidate of the non-elected for the same list, who at the time was PdL, in the Liguria Region, who would take over in case of termination of the mandate of the senator whose election was declared contested. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u6	Sorry to interrupt you for a moment, Senator Lo Moro, but I would like to point out to my colleagues that it is no longer possible to continue in this way, because I cannot hear it. I would kindly ask all colleagues to lower the tone of their speaking in the Chamber or to sit outside.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u7	THE DEAD, rapporteur. I would ask colleagues, in turn, not to underestimate the decision we have to make, in the light of the work we have done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, go ahead. THE DEAD, rapporteur. As I said, on 7 July 2016, Mr Cassinelli announced his decision not to take part in the public session, while Senator Minzolini announced on 13 July that he would be represented at the public session by the German lawyer - admitted to legal aid in front of the higher courts - and, at the end of his defense, reserve the right to speak (which he then did). On July 18, 2016, at 15, the Junta met in public session: Senator Minzolini participated, accompanied by the German lawyer, while the counterinterested party was absent; after the introductory report, the aforementioned lawyer explained the reasons for the assistance and, subsequently, answered the questions addressed through the President by some members of the Junta; then Senator Minzolini himself intervened. Following the debate developed in the chamber of council, the Junta has decided by majority to propose to the Assembly to deliberate the decadence from the parliamentary mandate of Senator Augusto Minzolini for reasons of incandidability occurred, pursuant to article 3, paragraph 1, of the legislative decree 31 December 2012, n. 235. I would just like to add a few other things, leaving out what the Junta thought it would write to counter-deduce on matters that were not essential, but that were put forward by the defence. The important point is in incandidability as a particular cause of ineligibility. The institute of incandidability was extended to parliamentarians by legislative decree n. 235 of 2012 (so-called Severino law). It is an institution that operates and produces its own ex lege effects before the taking of office, precludes it in concrete, or after the proclamation, producing the non validation of the election (if the determination of the cause of incandidability intervenes in the validation phase of the elected) or the forfeiture from the parliamentary mandate (if it happens subsequently). The institute de quo is directly qualified by the provisions in question in terms of incandidability and appears to be the same as a particular form of ineligibility, also by virtue of the express forecast of a necessary resolution of the Chamber of belonging, pursuant to Article 66 of the Constitution, according to which each Chamber judges, inter alia, of the causes of ineligibility. The reference to Article 66 therefore accredits the thesis - which, in truth, is not very disputed - that incandidability is a form of ineligibility. The relevance of the incandidability to the wider genus of ineligibility, on the other hand, is also confirmed by constitutional jurisprudence. I avoid quoting the various judgments. The present procedure, which finds its highest rank in Article 66 of the Constitution and in the same principle of autonomy as the constitutional bodies, is concerned with the verification of the effective existence of the conditions to consider applicable - in this case - a cause of ineligibility which has occurred and, consequently, of forfeiture from the parliamentary mandate. Now, let us also deal with the subject, which has been largely examined in other circumstances, of the nature of the parliamentary body and of the functions exercised, which has obviously been relevant in order to reject the demands of the defence. Both the Council and the Assembly have already dealt with the issue of the nature of the parliamentary body in previous circumstances. It is useful here to briefly recall the conclusions which have been reached because the nature of the parliamentary body inevitably affects the choices which the Junta is called upon to make in the first phase and, therefore, the Assembly. According to the previous approach, the Junta remains a political body, without those indefectible powers that, on the other hand, characterize the courts. In the presence of different opinions, it cannot but take into account the choices already made according to a constant and dating practice, according to which the present proceedings are not of a judicial nature, with the consequence that neither this Junta, nor the Assembly of the Senate of the Republic, can qualify as judges on a case-by-case basis for the possible referral to the Constitutional Court of questions of constitutional legitimacy (see the night session of 18 September 2013 of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of the Senate in which the preliminary question concerning the possibility of raising a question of constitutional legitimacy with reference to certain profiles deemed relevant and not manifestly unfounded and the preliminary question concerning the possibility of making a preliminary interpretative referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union for doubts of compatibility with the law of the European Union, as well as other meetings which I quote in detail in the report). In addition, it is recalled that the Senate Council, in its session of 2 July 2013, also in the context of the verification of powers, excluded the feasibility of a question of constitutional legitimacy. Many arguments, in particular the principle of the autonomy of the constitutional bodies, the lack of the requirement of third-party jurisdiction (which distinguishes the courts), the possibility of the Senate acting directly on provisions which it considers to have constitutional illegitimacy through the exercise of its legislative function, and, with regard specifically to the proceedings before the Junta, already exhausted for a long time, the content of the proposed "mere" - as it is today - addressed to the Assembly, taken up by its final resolution, which therefore presents a provisional and non-binding nature. The function of the Board is, therefore, formally and substantially preliminary, preparatory and, at most, pre-decisional and therefore does not assume decision-making value: the decision, in a technical-juridical sense, in fact, is the responsibility of the Assembly and only of it. In this regard, it is sufficient to consider that, with the decision of the Junta, the Member of Parliament does not lapse, but his election is only contested; the decision of the Junta does not have any decision-making nature, so that the judicial nature of the function exercised by the Junta cannot even be hypothesized. I now come to the non-applicability of the principle of irretroactivity to the institution of incandidability and decadence and to the lack of sanctioning character. This point is particularly relevant. From the temporal point of view, it is specified that the facts ascribed to Senator Minzolini are committed, as repeated several times, from July 2009 to November 2010; the legislative decree n. 235 of 2012 (so-called Severino law) entered into force on 5 January 2013; the sentence of sentence inflicted on Senator Minzolini passed into judgment on 12 November 2015. These are the time data. According to the defensive propositions, the prediction of the incandidability would have the nature of criminal sanction, therefore subject to the principle of non-retroactivity enshrined in the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution. The central theme of the alleged irretroactivity of the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 235 of 2012 - which provide for a cause of ineligibility and, therefore, of decadence - inevitably revolves around the possibility or not to qualify the decadence as a penalty of criminal importance. The discipline of the cases preventing access to and permanence in the elective offices, contained in the aforementioned legislative decree n. 235, for the aspects that compete here, does not conflict with the principle of irretroactivity of the penal norm, sanctioned by Article 25 of the Constitution, first for logical-systematic reasons because this primary source does not possess the connotations of a criminal standard nor does it contain a discipline of sanctioning nature. The ratio underlying every criminal norm and, in particular, those that identify a criminal offence and determine a subsequent punitive apparatus consists in the anti-juridicity of a conduct, in the replicability of the prediction to general requirements of order and public security and in the nature proper penalty of the same punitive apparatus that postulates the imposition of a strict penalty sensu understanding. The forecast of incandidability - even if it happened - as introduced by Legislative Decree n. 235 of 2012 expresses quite another ratio, attributable to the combined provisions of Articles 51, first paragraph, and 54, second paragraph, of the Constitution. From these last constitutional canons the penal norm excludes in principle, not being primary end of the criminal legislator neither evaluate the integrity and exemplaryness of the private subject nor, let alone, introduce a regime that specifies the requirements to condition the access and the permanence of the subject in national or local elective body. This reconstruction is confirmed by some formal data, the first of which is represented precisely by the reference to the requirements, contained in the first paragraph of Article 51 of the Constitution: this phrase indicates that the intention of the Constitution is to keep separate the two regimes under consideration, the one relating to the discipline of access to elected posts and the one, which could be said to be typical or common, within which criminal standardization operates. In this sense, the mildly afflicting forecasts introduced by the Severino law do not possess or manifest any intent proper and typically sanctioning and are, instead, intended exclusively to satisfy the absolute reserve that presupposes the precise determination, by the primary source, of the aforementioned requirements. The prescriptive value of the reference to the term requirements (ex Article 51, first paragraph) therefore appears to be very different from that resulting from the verbal expression "no one" may be punished (ex Article 25, second paragraph) and from the other "the accused is not considered guilty" (ex Article 27, second paragraph). From this point of view, therefore, the aforementioned Article 51 of the Constitution represents a fundamental element of discrimination which requires that sanctions should not be confused with the requirements of a necessary quality or condition or, as the constitutional judge expresses himself, a condition that must necessarily exist so that the electoral mandate can legitimately be established and can also remain. As a further effect of this reconstruction, it is believed that the content of these requirements is first and foremost derived from another constitutional norm - on which I insist - contained in the second paragraph of Article 54, where the two places of discipline and honour are used, with which the norm-principle in speech requires the legislator to inspire its choices to the presuppositions of exemplaryness and integrity. Consequently, in Articles 51, first paragraph, and 54, second paragraph, we find the different ratio that is the basis of the legislative forecasts concerning the two areas in question, the criminal one and that of incandidability, one and the other not confusing as to the respective inspiring principles neither homologable as to the characteristics to which the respective legislative source refers. It is, then, from this framework that it follows, as a first effect, the possibility of a different regulatory regime in the matter of incandidability compared to the criminal one, with reference in particular to the issue of irretroactivity. I skip all the next part that is further explanatory of the principle, among other things sanctioned in relation to other cases and other subjects from various judgments, because - I recalled in premise - the incandidability has been regulated from 2012 onwards for Members, Senators and Members of the European Parliament, but it is an institution that precedes the Severino law. However, this institute concerned other subjects, in relation to which there are several judgments of the court of merit and of the court of legality. There are several pages on this point in the report. I conclude by saying that the Council has also dealt with other issues, which are not, in fact, decisive for our assessment. However, having been proposed by the defence, it seemed right to us, even to a colleague who has shown himself to be particularly attentive to the procedures and respectful of the process that was being followed in the Junta of the elections, to be at least exhaustive. For this reason we have addressed the issue of fumus persecutionis, the issue of non-renewing in appeal of the examination of texts, i.e. issues unrelated to the case or which have been exhausted in the judicial phase with a final executive judgment that has closed this argument, namely the judgment of the Supreme Court. So I'm going to the final point. In the meeting in the chamber of council, held following the public session of 18 July 2016, after a wide and qualified discussion, also on the basis of the previous procedure of contestation of the beginning of the legislature - I have already recalled - the Presidency has considered it appropriate, in order to guarantee the maximum expansion to the rights of the defence, that the Junta expressed itself, in any case, with special votes, on the following questions for a preliminary ruling, which have not been accepted: the proposal to raise a question of constitutional legitimacy before the Constitutional Court, with reference to Articles 1 and 3 of Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012, in relation to the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution and I have already explained the reasons that led the Junta to make this choice; the proposal for a preliminary referral to the Court of Justice of the European Union, with reference to the possible violation of Article 7 of the European Convention on HumanRights , in relation to the criminal conviction at the origin of the presentprocedure ; the proposal to wait for the ruling of the European Court of HumanRights , with reference to Article 6 of the European Convention of HumanRights , in relation to the criminal sentence to the origin of the presentprocedure. All these arguments have been rejected. At the end of the aforementioned meeting, the following resolution was adopted, communicated in public session: the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunities of the Senate, following the contestation of the election of Senator Augusto Minzolini (Liguria Region) decided by the Junta in the session of 8 June 2016; in public session, heard the presentation of the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, and the interventions of Senator Minzolini and his defender; gathered in the chamber of council; having regard to the articles: 66 of the Constitution; 87 of the single text approved by decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957; Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993; Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate of the Republic; Articles 14 and 17 of the Rules of Procedure for the Verification of Powers; recalled Articles 1, 3 and 13 of Legislative Decree No. 235 of 2012; ensures that there is a case in the presence of an addition of incandidability, and resolves by a majority - rejected any contrary notice in proceeding and substance - to propose to the Assembly the decadence from the parliamentary term, on the grounds of December 31, on the grounds of the basis of paragraph of Article 3 of Article 1 of the President of the President of the President of the decree of the decree of the Sendoption of the decree of Article 1 of the President of the decree of the Council of the Council of the President of the President of the Council of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the Council of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of the President of Pursuant to Rule 17 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the report has been submitted to the Junta - as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech - and was sent to the Senate the next day, within twenty days of the adoption of the decision, therefore within the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. My conclusions are as follows: with my report I propose a declaration of forfeiture, i.e. the adoption of the Junta's proposal. I will conclude with a personal note. In the report that you will read, which concerns a colleague and the respect that we owe to our colleagues, we will all read it, there are also words that I would call of sympathy to Senator Minzolini, who has behaved absolutely correctly towards me and all my colleagues. The regret with which I close the story is that Senator Minzolini believes that he has found a former parliamentary judge on his way from whom he has felt mistreated, while today he is dealing instead with a former parliamentary judge who concludes for his decadence. I am personally sorry, but I am used to the application of the law and, in the face of the need to apply the law, even sympathy and personal relationships do not lead me to be hesitant in any way. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u8	I declare the debate on this document open. Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u9	Mr President, I do not intend to open a battle in favour of Senator Minzolini with my speech. On the other hand, I intend to represent the House with a number of problems which have strained the procedural path and which, if they were to repeat themselves, would touch on our personal autonomy. My speech, therefore, is in favour not of Senator Minzolini, but of the Senate and of all of us senators. In the same way, I do not believe that in this case we should be interested in the mere formal application of the Severino law, i.e. to declare essentially the forfeiture in the light of a judgment passed in court and issued by the judicial authority. I intend to pose other problems, the first of which is that, against the order of forfeiture, our order does not allow Senator Minzolini any recourse to the judicial authority. And this clearly represents a deviation from the equal scheme, as an appeal is allowed to municipal, provincial and regional councillors. However, it is a deviation - from my personal point of view - which is not relevant at the constitutional level, because it is precisely at the constitutional level that the appeal is not possible. If this is true, however, it is also true that Senator Minzolini, or each of us, just as the municipal, provincial and regional councillors, has the sacrosanct right, even if to see them rejected, to ask questions that pertain to the constitutional legitimacy of a law. In other words, Senator Minzolini, to whom the possibility of appealing to the judicial authority is precluded, has the right to make his exceptions known to the courts. In the present case, this was not the case, because - as you will be able to read on page 8 of the report - the Junta said not so much that it was not a court, but that it could not act as a judge on a case-by-case basis for the remission of questions of constitutional legitimacy and for the reference to the European Court for a preliminary ruling. It is a statement, this one of the Junta, which stands in stark contrast to what is alleged to be sections united by the Court of Cassation, that the Junta is a judge on a case-by-case basis and even that it is a court within the framework of the powers of self-dedication. And all this prevented Senator Minzolini from being able to bring, through the judge a quo, his condolences to the Constitutional Court. Beware: I do not say that the complaints of Senator Minzolini are founded, because I do not care; but I say that Senator Minzolini is precluded, if the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity is not judge by chance, any possibility of manifesting his exceptions, different from what happens - as I said before - for municipal, provincial and regional councillors. You all know that Mayor De Magistris and President De Luca, right in the courts, have raised questions of constitutional legitimacy, which have found a positive assessment from the point of view of the non-obvious unfoundedness and which have then been overcome by the Constitutional Court. All this was not possible for Senator Minzolini and it will not be possible in a future for each of us. And do you think that it corresponds to the dictates of Article 3 of the Constitution, and mainly to Article 24 of the Constitution in the matter of the right of defence, that a Member of Parliament, unlike all other citizens of this country, cannot, even if to see them rejected, ask questions of constitutional legitimacy or reference to a preliminary ruling? In other words, I want to say that the Junta, as it had already done in 2008, dealing with specific questions of constitutional legitimacy put forward at the time by Senator Casson, and then rejecting them, had an obligation to address the issues and to reject them, if it intended to do so; and even more so, in the light of the 2015 Constitutional Court's judgment in the matter of the central office of the referendum and of Judgment No 213 of 2008 in reference to the Court of Auditors in the context of equalization of budgets: bodies that are certainly not courts, to which the Constitutional Court has recognized the status of judge as a judge in the matter of the possibility of promoting an exception of constitutional illegitimacy. I do not think that we can go on in such a situation. Again, I open and close a parenthesis. On page 9 of the report of the Junta it is said that the Junta cannot be a judge on a case-by-case basis, because it completely lacks the requirement of third-party jurisdiction. Gentlemen, third parties are impartial. How can we allow such a statement in an official act of the Senate, namely, to say that each of us senators is not protected by law, but is at the mercy of the majority on duty? The absence of a third party only means that. A second point I would like to address is the following, to which the rapporteur also referred at the final stage of her speech. On page 16 of the proposal of the Giunta is dedicated a capitoletto to fumus persecutionis, which I would like to expose. The Junta states that the theme of fumus persecutionis is absolutely ultraroneo, as it does not concern the panorama of the issues subject to its interest. This is a statement which could also be shared but, if it were to be true, why does the election committee dedicate three pages to deny the existence of fumus persecutionis? That's not fair. If we do not talk about fumus persecutionis, fumus persecutionis is not mentioned, either in positive or in negative. If we have to talk about it, we are talking about it because it is necessary for the decision to be taken and, consequently, then, each of us could make our own considerations. In essence, there would be no fumus persecutionis because - and here there is another grave singularity in the Junta's proposal - the Undersecretary of the Ministry of Justice ruled out the obligation to abstain by Judge Sinisi. It is unusual for a parliamentary body to be dictated by the Commission. It is unusual that a parliamentary body should be subjected, without blinking, to the decisions of the judicial authority and to the assessments of the executive power. But, in short, the principle of tripartition and separation of powers means not that one power must be supine to others, but that it carries out its assessments in full autonomy. Moreover, I apologise to those who drafted this measure, but the Secretary says something extremely technically wrong. He states, in fact, that there was no possibility of abstention also because the so-called serious reasons for opportunity had not been raised, with an instance of objection, by Senator Minzolini. This is wrong. While it is true that the serious grounds of opportunity are a cause of abstention, it is also true that they do not fall within the various possibilities of appealing. Colleagues, I invite you to read with tranquility Article 37 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to discover this little truth, which seems to be unknown to the Undersecretary and to those who have reported his words. There are no serious reasons for opportunity, because it does not point out that one of the members of the college has carried out political activities in a politically opposed party to that of Senator Minzolini. But, gentlemen, I would remind you that this House has unanimously adopted a measure aimed at regulating relations between the judiciary and politics with regard to the entry and removal of judges from politics. According to that provision, Judge Sinisi could not be a member of the Board of Appeal. But let's not be, because it is a law in itinere and de iure condensing you cannot imagine serious reasons for opportunity. However, if each of you were ever a magistrate who was to return to the judiciary, would you not feel strongly, within you, the obligation to abstain when you were to find yourselves judging one of us, similarly to how one would feel strong this duty in opposing condition? Europe tells us that. How many times have we heard this statement in this House? Europe tells us exactly one thing. The Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO) states that a law on the incompatibility of the simultaneous exercise of the function of magistrate and politician at local level - in a more general way, the question of the political activity of judges - must be dealt with in all respects on the legal level, in view of its impact on the fundamental principles of independence and impartiality of the judicial system. Excuse me - I don't want to argue with anyone - but the President of your party, Matteo Orfini, with reference to Emiliano's candidacy, said that the history of revolving doors must end and the President of the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies said that the candidate cannot go back to being a magistrate. But there is more. If I had to go to check on what happened, I would be faced with certain anomalies. As for the lack of recognition of the reasonable compensation for the damage, I remember Minzolini returned all the money to RAI. Why has this not been recognized? I do not want to think that this appeasement has not been recognized because, if it had ever been enforced, the penalty would have been less than two years and, consequently, the leghold trap provided for by the so-called Severino law would not have taken place. I believe that you cannot vote for a measure - device and motivation - in the part where, in the explanatory statement, it is absolutely stated that there has been no anomaly in the presence of that judge in that college. And again: you cannot vote on a measure which, in the part relating to the reasons, says that there has been no violation of the law with regard to the failure to reopen the investigation. In summary, Minzolini is acquitted at first instance and sentenced to second degree. In the first instance, the court considers that certain statements of witnesses are reliable. In second instance, the court of appeal considers those statements unreliable and privileges others that had been considered irrelevant by the court. But if there is no need in this case to reopen the investigation, what rereading are we talking about? If there is not here the possibility of reopening the investigation that would have allowed Minzolini, in the face of the questions asked to the witnesses in inquiry, to be able to defend himself and to render his statements again, when should the investigation be reopened? In conclusion, gentlemen, I recall, in 2011, the Dan v. Moldova and the Hanu v. Romania proceedings: the European Court affirmed that Article 6 of the European Convention must be respected, which states - according to the European Court - that the investigation must be reopened. In 2013, the Court of Cassation, Section Macchia, complied with the European Court's principle of express law and stated the need for the reopening of the investigation. Finally, the united sections of the Cassation, in April, claim the same thing. This is so important that it becomes a specific part of the extension of the judicial year carried out by the first President of the Court of Cassation, Giovanni Canzio. I think, therefore, that it is correct to return to the Junta for three orders of reasons: first, the Junta is pronounced and the rejections, but it is pronounced on the exceptions presented by Minzolini. I'm not arguing about the constitutionality of the Severino law. I'm discussing the interpretation that the Junta has given in terms of its qualification. I recall the general principle that interpretations must be in line with the Constitution and that, before reaching an exception of constitutional legitimacy of the norm, one must go the way of an interpretation that makes that doubt of constitutionality no longer such. If the election committee is not a judge on a case-by-case basis, the Severino law is unconstitutional. It will be available not here, but in the European Court of Justice. If, on the other hand, the election committee is a judge on a case-by-case basis, rejecting matters, rejecting them - I don't care - but taking this step. If the election committee is a judge on a case-by-case basis, it must decide on the exceptions presented by Minzolini and, therefore, the measure can only go back. If the fumus persecutionis or the violation of the law are outside the matter of interest of the Junta, Minzolini has the right that the Junta does not take a position in any way on the absence of the fumus persecutionis and on the absence of a violation of the law. In fact, he has the right, tomorrow, when he is declared to have fallen (if he is declared to have fallen), to be able to say that he has been the victim of something not positive from the judicial point of view. He'll have the right to say it. He will say that there was a non-neutral judge and everything will be part of the discussion that Minzolini will be able to do. But no one will be able to carry out a measure where, in an ultroneo way - as we read in the resolution - and completely detached from the powers of the Junta, in a way completely detached from the truth, it is stated that that process was without anomalies. Thirdly, the Junta must expunge from the explanatory statement of the proposal all the part concerning fumus persecutionis. This is stated by the Junta itself when it says that it is not part of her examination. So let's try not to be realistic any more than the king: if he doesn't come into the exam, he doesn't write. The question of fumus persecutionis does not arise in accordance with the assessment provided for in Article 66 of the Constitution. Therefore, having been acquired the order of sentence just over two years, certain considerations are made. Similarly, the question of the violation of the law with regard to the reopening of the investigation does not equally arise. That's what I wanted to say, and in defence not of Senator Minzolini, but of each one of us. If every one of us - I am asking you to do so - should ever be in the same situation as Minzolini, then he has the right to raise questions of constitutional legitimacy before his judge, who is precisely the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys. And it also has the right to that in the proposal of the Junta there are no ultrone passages, which certainly affect the defensive perspectives of Minzolini and mainly the image of the future senator or Minzolini himself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, ALA-SCCLP and CoR, and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u10	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Luigi Einaudi) in Manduria, in the province of Taranto, and the Institute including Via Ormea (Via Ormea) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the story of Senator Minzolini is truly emblematic. And I say that in the literal sense of the term, to stay at the Zingarelli. It is particularly significant or representative of concepts or phenomena that pre-exist and permeate its becoming. The decadence of Senator Minzolini expresses in a plastic and immediate way the inability of the legislator, and therefore of all of us who sit in this assembly, to ensure the right balance between the right to participate in the political life of the magistrates and the exercise of delicate judicial functions capable of affecting so greatly the public and private life of the people. It is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to have failed to identify measures capable of restoring the necessary confidence in the impartiality and serenity of the judges to the senator or even to the citizen of Minzolini. In this regard, I would like to point out a bill, first signed by Senator Palma, who is still under examination in the Chamber after many years, which precisely regulates the return of the magistrates in the roles after their political experience. The unique circumstances relating to the political militancy of judges who, in several degrees of judgment, were interested in the case of Senator Minzolini were... [[Brusio. References by the President]] As I said, they have already been reported by Senator Minzolini, by the directly concerned. Have they affected the content of the decision? I do not know whether they have affected the content of the decision and I believe that no one can, of course, know. It seems to me, however, that it would have been better to avoid even the suspicion that this could have happened. It is the suspicion that must be avoided. The defendant must have the serenity and certainty of the impartiality of the judgment that is expressed by the judges dealing with his case. The story of Minzolini is also emblematic of the little consideration, colleagues, that we have of ourselves. I wonder, in fact, what the meaning of our debate today is. If, in fact, the Senate is called to the Assembly to approve or not to approve a proposal from the Junta, it is clear that there is - and must be - a decision-making area, an opportunity to approve that proposal or not. If you were in the presence of alleged automatisms - as you would like to pass those prepared by the Severino law - that you are called to approve or not, I cannot, first as a jurist and then as a politician, not ask myself what is the benchmark for my personal decision. It seems clear to me that, in this case, the parameters can only be two: the first is political, that is, related to the need to protect the individual parliamentarians and, through them, the guarantees of the composition and functioning of the entire Chamber of Representation. On this point it seems to me that he has already said enough to the directly concerned in his defences in the Commission. The second parameter is that of constitutionality, and on the point my thinking differs from that just expressed by Senator Palma. In what way do you differ? Senator Palma recalled the decisions of the Consulta, following appeals by judges of merit, in relation to the questions of suspension of the mayor of Naples De Magistris and the president of the Regional Council of Campania De Luca. President Palma recalled those decisions and stopped to point out how judges of merit had deemed the questions of constitutionality not manifestly unfounded, so that they had returned the acts to the Court. I'm going a little further. In fact, if one reads the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 276 of 16 December 2016, precisely following the dismissal of the Neapolitan judge of merit on the question of unconstitutionality, it is clear that the Consulta made a distinction between a measure of an undoubtedly administrative nature, such as that of the suspension, which had affected both De Magistris and De Luca, dwelling on the reason for the rejection precisely on the basis of the consideration that the contested measure was of suspension and, therefore, of an exquisitely administrative nature, and not already a sentence. The question of Senator Minzolini seems to me different, because the final judgment, which defined the case, has passed into judgment and, therefore, the Court has never expressed itself... [[Brusio.]] I listened to Senator Palma very carefully and, since I am comparing myself with his thesis, I would like to be heard. As I said, the difference lies in the nature of the contested measure, that is, the measure that automatically triggers the application of the so-called Severino law. That of De Magistris and De Luca was an administrative measure and the Constitutional Court rejected the question. Has the Constitutional Court been called upon in the matter of the irretroactivity of the Severino law, in the event of a conviction? I don't think so. And I'm going even further. If the Court had not considered that this distinction had been made, in the sense that it had considered the two cases to be identical, it would not have been necessary in the reasoning to state that its decision was related to the precautionary measure and not to the final judgment. On the point of the nature of the ancillary penalty, such as that of the forfeiture, I share what Senator Palma said about the forty-year jurisprudence of the Court of Strasbourg in this matter. It is sufficient, however, to consider that it has been consolidated and stratified in the so-called Engel criteria, in the same way as sanctions of a criminal nature, in order to apply the principle of irretroactivity, also measures of a punitive, grievous nature, qualified by the national legislature as administrative sanctions. In other words, we have gone further: even if the national legislator qualifies administrative sanctions, the case law of the Court of Strasbourg still considers the penalties to be of a criminal nature. We know that the questions raised by Mr De Magistris were not manifestly unfounded by the judges of merit. Senator Minzolini to whom can he ask to raise the question of unconstitutionality - and here I find myself, again, in harmony with Senator Palma - if not to that organ that must decide whether or not to apply the Severino law to his case? What's this organ? Senator Lo Moro, in explaining the proceedings, referred to the public hearing, the invitation to the parties and the other party concerned. The counter-interested, that is, the first of the unelected, who should sit in the place of Senator Minzolini, has renounced to attend that public hearing. Senator Lo Moro spoke of a trial, from the point of view of the ritual, with a person receiving the eventual measure, a counter-interested person and lawyers. How then can it not be assumed that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has a judicial nature? He's got it. But I'm going even further. We know that there is a doctrine - which, in truth, is still limited - that has considered the appeal to the Constitutional Court admissible, not already on matters of unconstitutionality, but on the grounds of conflict of powers on the part of the Senate, namely a House of Parliament (and here the doctrine to which I refer is still isolated, I must be honest, and moves from some young doctrinal, however Tuscan). Even a single senator, as a fraction of the power, may refer the matter to the Constitutional Court from the point of view of the conflict of attribution. Dear colleagues, I have not entered into the substance of the Minzolini affair, but one thing I have to tell you: a labour judge, interpreting the contract, has established and affirmed that Senator Minzolini, in execution of that same contract, had correctly used the credit card. A court of first instance, in criminal proceedings, found that Minzolini's conduct and conduct had been corrected. An appeal judge - who, until a few years ago, sat here before me and confronted me on different ideological and political positions - claimed the opposite, however denying the renewal of the debate. For the truth, it is said that the sentence to united sections intervened after the decision of the court of appeal, but beware: the united sections intervened after; before that, however, there were judgments of merit that practically affirmed the obligation of the court, when it decides in peius for the accused, to renew the investigation debate, and this has not been done. We are faced with a Court of Cassation which has limited itself to a verification of conformity in the application of the procedural rules and we find ourselves in a final sentence. I repeat that I do not know if that judge has decided on the basis of political conditioning, but I know for a fact that the doubt I have has certainly also Minzolini and we cannot allow a citizen to have the doubt that the decision taken against him was conditioned by a faith or religious or political or by any other motivation. I have signed the agendas which have been tabled and I call on the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to carry out this further control. I think it is legitimate and proper that a serious and motivated response should be given, as does the above-mentioned Junta, where we have authoritative representatives and also legal experts. Let them reject, said Senator Nitto Palma: well, do so; but tell me why the election committee is not a judicial body. They have to tell me, I want to read it and I want this decision to remain in the Italian Parliament's proceedings also to mark the future and to understand to what extent the political class is protected by decisive attitudes that can come from other powers of the State. We need a proper balance between the powers of the State. Today I am not asking to keep Minzolini sitting on this bench, but - as President Palma did - that a proper balance be established between the powers of the State. I ask not only for myself, but for my children, my grandchildren and the future of my country. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senators Albertini and D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u14	Mr President, I will not repeat what Senator Palma has already said and I would like to address essentially the Democratic Party, whose decision I welcomed this morning's decision to leave freedom of conscience. I appreciate what President Zanda has done, because that means recognising that there is a room for decision-making in Parliament also in relation to the Severino law and making that law constitutionally legitimate for the choice of freedom of vote. There is, therefore, a space for technical-legal assessment or assessment of conscience on the same decision that is being examined. For the second part, I want to address the Five Star Movement. You have always said that you have an aspiration for justice, almost, at times, by violating the Constitution, which gives Parliament the centrality in the institutional landscape of our system. However, I do not believe that you are engaged in formal justice, which would be very serious; I believe you are champions and advocates of substantial justice, that is to say that it affirms values and is not just paperweights, and if, by hypothesis, we were not called to evaluate, we would become paperweights. We would have no parliamentary dignity, no senators, no institution in which we sit. I do not want to refer to some of the issues that have already been dealt with. Mr President, as you will recall, when we met in the 1970s, President Pertini, who presided over the Supreme Council of the judiciary (of which I was a member at the time), raised the question of whether the judge should be independent or appear independent. Pertini correctly claimed that the judge must be independent, but also appear independent. And why does it have to look independent? I have worked forty years in the judiciary and certainly no one can tell me that I have ever betrayed that appearance of independence, but today, if I go back to being a magistrate, could you say that there is appearance of independence? In the frontal confrontation with the 5 Star Movement and also with you, President, if you were judged by me, would I appear independent? No. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Giovanardi]] Why wouldn't I look independent? As you will recall, when it came to the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, I said that I did not feel like being a member of the election committee if this was not a judge and if it had to reason according to the logic of the party and the party. And you told me that, under the Rules of Procedure, I could not resign, even if I did not agree, so much so that I stayed a year and a half outside the Council. Then I returned, because otherwise the presence of the Group to which I belong was lacking, even if that rule of law is wrong. The appearance of independence concerns many aspects: how can we imagine that a person who was a member of Parliament was Undersecretary and, why not re-elected, the party sent him to the UN, then returns to the judiciary and participates in a decision on a political opponent? That appearance fails and touches the entire boarding school. This is one of the key points. I do not want to retrace the story of the trial in Minzolini, because I believe that all the issues have been unraveled and you have all understood the reality of things. Nor do I want to recall the rule that we voted yesterday on remedial conduct, which relates to crimes that can be prosecuted, so if the defendant repairs the damage, the crime is extinguished. This point was voted on yesterday, I believe unanimously (I believe, because trust prevented us from assessing what the possible disagreements might be). Well, that has become a behavior that determines the extinction of the crime, will it be more possible for a judge to discuss whether or not the compensation made by the party is such as to justify the attenuating? Or will it become an obligation, President? This is a passage on which we should all reflect. Then I want to draw your attention to another fundamental fact. It seems to me that you were also present this year at the inauguration of the judicial year in the Court of Cassation, during which Giovanni Canzio correctly recalled that last year - he finally said - a principle of legal civilization has been established in our country, a fundamental principle that makes us say aloud that we are a country of Europe. Article 6 of the European Convention lays down rules. And why has Canzio given strong value to that decision of the United Sections, which intervened fifteen days before the decision of the Junta? It would be good to read the four principles established by the judgment of the United Sections No 27620 of 28 April 2016, but I quote one in particular: The provision contained in Article 6 (3) (d) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, relating to the right of the accused to examine or have the witnesses charged and to obtain the summons and examination of the witnesses to discharge, as defined by the consolidated jurisprudence of the Court of Justice, which constitutes an interpretative parameter of the internal procedural rules, implies that, in the case of an appeal by the public prosecutor against an absolute judgment, based on the assessment of declarative evidence deemed decisive, the court of appeal cannot reform the judgment under appeal in the sense of the affirmation of the criminal liability of the accused, without having carried out, even of its own motion, - Senator Cucca, who is attentive to the guarantees: there is no need for the defendant's request - pursuant to Article 603, paragraph 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to renew the instruction by examining the subjects who have made statements on the facts of the process deemed decisive for the purposes of the judge of the absolute judgment of first instance. And who are these subjects, Mr President? You will have read the entire sentence, so I will not read it again, but in addition to the witnesses, who were heard, a subject that should have been heard on appeal was Senator Minzolini. Read the sentence, read it all: the defendant, if he gives assessments that are examined from the point of view of criminal liability, must be affected! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] And that's what the Court of Cassation says in joined sections. I appreciate the Democratic Party's decision to grant freedom of conscience in the vote. As far as I am concerned, this ruling would lead me to reject the judgment of the election committee, but if we really want to be more realistic than the king, the first thing to do is that these aspects should be re-evaluated by the junta, since these aspects were only established and published fifteen days earlier, if I recall correctly, on 4 July. That means only one thing, Mr President. I cannot fail to take into account a fact: you have been a magistrate for several years like me and you know very well how difficult the art of judging is and how much more difficult it is not to take into account those reactions, sometimes emotional, sometimes of inconsulted movements, of tic, which come out during an investigation, both of the defendant and of the witness; and how many times this has led to further questions that allow to ascertain the truth. Precisely, for the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, we are not talking about absolute truth, but about the procedural truth. In all trials and precisely because a procedural truth needs rules and you are the bearers of rules and values: how do you vote on such a thing without making a further assessment of the Court's judgment? If we are on the same boat in the affirmation of new principles, new values in this country, if we are on the same boat fighting collusions, mafias, criminal organizations wherever they nest, we must respect the rules and legality and constitutional law is the first assessment that must be made. Can we abdicate to the Constitution and say that Parliament has no opportunity for evaluation, as the rapporteur has written? President Zanda was aware of the abnormity of such a statement, so he spoke of freedom of vote, because the latter legitimates an assessment, otherwise there would be no freedom of vote. If there is freedom of vote, there is the possibility of evaluation, otherwise there is the deployment, the decision per party made, on the political side. And I do not believe that we can in this way violate the prerogatives of Parliament, the fundamental values. Yesterday I heard many statements, which I fully agree with and endorse, by members of the Democratic Party, about constitutional principles that have not always been respected in the past and I would not like today, less than twenty-four hours later, to betray those same principles that were affirmed yesterday. [[Applause from the FI-Pdl Group XVII]] I hope that there will be consistency of behaviour between yesterday and today, because the point is the same: these are constitutional values, the principles of freedom and justice. I am not asking you to say no, I am asking you to make a serious assessment, in the Assembly of the elections, of that decision of the Constitutional Court. If today it had been judged on appeal, certainly in accordance with the principles of the judgment of the Court of Cassation in joined sections, the decision of the Court of Appeal would have been annulled. You would like to attach yourselves to a formal fact which I do not even hope that my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement can accept: we cling to a judgment that has no value, a wrong judgment, unjust and illegal, as stated by the Court of Cassation to united sections. And you're gonna hook up to something like this? Senator Palma suggests to me that this principle was also affirmed yesterday, in the reform of the criminal process, and I hope that as we all voted in that forum, we can reaffirm it today. That is why I ask you, mainly from the point of view of the ability to assess a rule and to apply it immediately, if you think that there are any doubts, that there is a need for further assessment and further comparison, to accept the proposal to refer to Giunta for an assessment that takes into account the judgment of the Court of Cassation in joined sections. You cannot wash your hands like Pontius Pilate, saying that it is not up to you and that you are not judges, because at that point a serious and offensive act would be taken towards Parliament, towards the fundamental institution of our country. In fact, if Parliament is not worthy and does not have the opportunity to assess, it must raise a question of the constitutionality of the Severino law, otherwise we fail our duty and our responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and CoR. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u16	Mr President, I have to make two premises. The first is that I met Senator Minzolini in this House and in the adjoining rooms, when we were both at RAI we would have heard twice on the phone and on strictly business matters, we did not have the same dates and we never went to dinner. The second is that I think that the laws must be respected, even when we consider them to be perfectible or not good laws and I think that the Severino law has been written and approved at a particular moment in the history of the Republic, in which a very large majority (right and left united) asked the country for very heavy sacrifices, even with obvious injustices, as in the case of exodus, and then decided to take away to Parliament all discretionary power and to indicate the decadence of the senator or of the Member who has been condemned for certain crimes definitively to a sentence of more than two years, eliminating any kind of discretion. And it is true what Senator Palma said when he said that this type of mechanism creates a disparity, a diversity, a discrepancy between the condition of the city councilman, the mayor, the local administrator who may in any case raise an exception of constitutionality, while the senator and the congressman are not allowed this condition. Having said that, I have said and I repeat that when the laws are applied to us, we cannot object to a particular case. However, I want to bear witness here in the Senate to my experience. I have worked in RAI 37 years and, if I may, I see the story of Senator Minzolini with a slightly different perspective than the articles that are read in the newspapers and also some speeches that I have heard in Parliament. I think, that is, if Senator Minzolini had a responsibility, this responsibility was to underestimate the difference in his role as a journalist, much appreciated outside the RAI, and as director of TG1, to overestimate the power of his mentor (as everyone knows, Minzolini had been appointed at the special request of Silvio Berlusconi, then the most eminent political personality of the country) and to think that with his professional ability, his past and with this type of investiture he could have managed the TG1 without any particular problems. It's not like that. A public company like RAI has within it a series of encrustations and a series of relationships between rope and power groups that sooner or later, if you don't kiss the slippers, they come back against you. That's what happened to Augusto Minzolini. I would like to make a few comments on this point. What's in dispute with Minzolini? That he improperly used a company card, which, according to the rapporteur, had been given him as the director of TG1. I have been director of a RAI magazine for six and a half years and I have also been director of a correspondence office of some importance. I never had and never wanted a corporate card. This is because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental hypocrisy in this country that concerns us all. We are willing to say that the part of our allowance that concerns our work is high, when we know very well that those who work in private, not necessarily with greater merits, take three, four, five times more, but then we endure a use of this neo-capitalism, which has also gone to public companies and even the Senate of the Republic, which is to pay people with expenses refunds, with benefits and other utilities. In this operation there is a trap and Minzolini fell on foot united in this trap. I'd like to know if anyone asked the CEO who gave him that credit card what he told Minzolini when he gave it to him. I would like to know whether it is true or not that Minzolini claimed to be able to continue a collaboration with Panorama and that the general manager, a friend of Minzolini and of his political side, said that he could not grant the derogation to the exclusive but that there was that credit card: tell me if this is not an invitation to theft. And anyone who has lived in a company like RAI knows that this is an invitation to width, to use that credit card in an uncontrolled way. The fundamental point, then, is that system of power, which Minzolini clearly underestimated. For example, can you think that a director doesn't even have the power to alternate the conductors? So what's the manager up to? What is Article 6 doing and what is the journalist's employment contract? But if you think, as Minzolini thought, that you can do it simply because he was Minzolini and because he had been appointed by the most important politician of his time, sooner or later you will touch things that will turn against and sooner or later they will use against us the political battle they want to do against our mentor. This happened to Minzolini in many fields and I wanted to bear witness to it. Another aspect on which I cannot remain silent is that of the inquiry. I said earlier and I repeat that final judgments must be respected. I say, however, that each of us is free to exercise his own criticism of the judicial process and the sentences. In the case of Senator Minzolini we have an acquittal at first instance, with the judge accepting compensation of over 60,000 euros made immediately by the defendant. The judgment of second instance completely overturns the first judgment and, by chance, does not consider the compensation. At this point, I must say that the doubt raised by Senator Nitto Palma is legitimate, when he said that the failure to accept the compensation probably served not to grant an attenuating one that would perhaps have dropped the sentence under the two years and thus not causing the decadence of Minzolini, already then Senator of the Republic. There is also, as has been said, a circumstance, which is not prohibited by law, but which is at least singular, that a politician judge judges a politician. This is actually an obvious anomaly. The anomalies are therefore many and I want to bear witness that we are facing the end of a long phase, in which politics has made demagogy and has felt that it does not pay the price of its mistakes by offering an enemy within the politics itself: the parliamentarians, who do not work, who take the vitality, who is paid too much. But without affecting the issues of real corruption. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] I repeat that paying with bonuses, reimbursements and other utility, according to the dictates of neoliberalism, is profoundly amoral, more than the salary that each of us takes and on this issue we do not intervene because there is a general hypocrisy. Why is it amoral? It is amoral because, on the one hand, it grants forms of improper salary and, on the other hand, because sometimes the ball of the roulette stops at one point and then raises the question: and then Marino becomes responsible for who knows what theft and Minzolini becomes guilty of a continuous flaw. That's the point. The point of my speech is to bear this witness. I do not feel that I accept or share the view expressed with so much doctrine by Senator Nitto Palma when he says that we must return to the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity, because the Junta must express precisely the yes or the no to the disputes of merit of Senator Minzolini because, from what I understand (that I do not have the culture of Senator Nitto Palma, nor yours, Mr President), the so-called Severino law has actually removed this discretion and, to some extent, the acceptance of the line leading to the decadence of Senator Minzolini is therefore obliged. We should change the law, but at the moment we can't do otherwise. And we cannot do otherwise even in the face of inequality with local administrators because the key we used during the decadence of Senator Berlusconi was that we must serve Parliament with honour and since a condemnation of that kind removes this requirement, the Senate automatically takes away the discretionary possibility. That's what I understand. I can make a mistake, Senator Nitto Palma, but on the basis of this I do not feel that I should not vote for the decadence from the parliamentary mandate of Senator Minzolini, because I think it is an obligatory act. However, I wanted to bear witness and I hope that the senators will realize this for the future. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u17	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u18	Mr President, the matter under discussion is certainly complex and contains many elements of discussion and reflection. However, we cannot forget the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which has not taken a decision lightly. The Junta has gone into the issues brought to the attention of the House and - just to fix the first point in the meantime - I believe that the report presented this morning has been absolutely exhaustive in the many aspects that were then proposed during the general debate. I want to remember a few points, very schematically and quickly. For example, this morning there was talk of the difference in the treatment given by the Severino law to regional, municipal and provincial councillors, who lapse after the sentence of conviction of first instance and have the possibility of appealing in spite of what happens instead for the parliamentarians, who are declared to have lapsed only following the final sentence and - not within the merit of what happened earlier - the decision must necessarily go to the Junta, which does not give a definitive decision but is limited to making a proposal that is then brought to the attention of the Assembly, the only body that is elected to take a final decision on the decline or not of the senator. So it is not that there is no opportunity for discussion on the issues that are being proposed: they have been dealt with in the Junta and, subsequently, they are being dealt with in this House today. This is the first topic, which allows me to talk about the nature of the Junta organ of parliamentary elections and immunity. I believe that the report gives a comprehensive account of all the discussion that has taken place, not only in this case, which has been brought to light in the course of the debate in Junta, but also the answers - which I believe to be equally exhaustive - that have come from the rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro. This is because certain issues have already been addressed and resolved with the reasons given on page 8 and 9 of today's report, which have been absolutely distorted during the debate in Junta. Moreover, this debate had already taken place in this House on other occasions and we had reached the same conclusions. With regard to the matter of the failure to reopen the hearing investigation, there is indeed a judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation which intervened on July 6, 2016, while the judgment we are dealing with today was deposited on February 17, and is precedent. However, the judgment of the Court of Cassation had also examined the case from that point of view: the question had rightly been raised in the appeal in cassation against the judgment of conviction of second instance and the Cassation replied with the reasons literally stated on page 21 of the report to our examination. I could also read them, but I simply recall them, to say that there had already been a ruling in this sense, and this, unfortunately, leads us to say that we are in the presence of a final judgment that obliges us to take certain decisions, then, in compliance with the content of the Severino law also with respect to the judgment of the Court of Cassation. It is clear that, in this sense, we may be able to set up an anomaly, but unfortunately we must stick to the content of the law. Then, because we are legislators, where we want to, we could also put our hand and decide whether the Severino law imposes a sort of taking of the content of the sentences or whether we think we are discussing it. I would like to say that, in this particular case, we have also discussed these problems, and when we have exhausted the issue of whether or not to raise questions of constitutional legitimacy (on which I do not want to go back because we have talked too much about it), with regard to the competence of the election committee in relation to a final decision, I believe that, in the state, we can only respect the content of a final judgment, which has also distorted those issues. We have to say that they have also been distorted in a comprehensive way, so all we can do is stick to the content of those judgments. In this sense I believe that even the request for a return to the Junta, on which I personally have nothing to complain about, is late, because it seems to me that in fact all the issues brought to the foundation of this request this morning have been exhaustively discussed during the work of the Junta. Furthermore, from the content and content of the report presented to us today by Senator Lo Moro, it seems to me that specific answers have come objectively: I believe that they touch on all the aspects raised this morning and on the issues that have been proposed. I repeat once again that the final judgment we are dealing with today (the judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation had not yet intervened), in its reasoning, had clarified the reasons why the lack of reopening of the trial had not been granted and had been decided on the basis of the documents relating to the trial at first instance. Therefore, the request in question to me seems objectively late. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u19	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Secondary School of First Degree (Master Pie Filippini) of Frascati, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this ordeal, I am obliged to make a statement. I am convinced that the battle I have undertaken goes beyond my person: I am convinced that certain inconsistencies, contradictions and infernal mechanisms that often emerge in our judicial system represent an opportunity to take stock of the condition of justice and democracy in our country. However, these battles, in order to be effective, must be sterilized from every personal interest: they must only be battles of principle. That's why I'm saying right now that whatever the outcome of the vote, a moment later, I'm gonna resign as a senator. I will do so later, however, not before, because I want the Senate to express itself on a case that I consider, with all the respect that I can have for the judiciary, a great injustice. Not for nothing will I continue to fight the battle on this matter in all fora, in Italy and in Europe. I think I'm the victim of a Kafkian affair that shows how in our country sometimes you see interpretations of the law closer to the perverse will of the "History of the Infamous Column" than to Cesare Beccaria: stories that make you lose confidence in justice and represent it as an enemy of common sense and friend of partiality. I'm saying this because the court case I've been involved in is unbelievable. I arrived in Rai in June 2009, after having worked thirty years in private companies (Agency Asca, "Panorama" and "La Stampa"). I accepted a salary lower than that of my predecessor, Gianni Riotta, but I put as a condition that I could continue my collaboration with "Panorama": I wanted to say mine outside of the news that I would direct. First I was told yes, then the president of the Rai of that time, Paolo Galimberti, opposed and sent me an e-mail in which he told me that it was ethically, as well as contractually, incompatible that I would continue (remember these words). At that point, disrespected by the refusal, you put the matter of the credit card. I told the then general manager Masi that I wanted a credit card just like the one I had in the daily newspaper "La Stampa" as a special envoy (repeat: as a special envoy) and not as a director: same budget, same rules, including that of not having to indicate the names of the people I met or invited, for obvious reasons of confidentiality of my sources. During the trial, the then CEO of the newspaper "La Stampa" (La Stampa), Angelo Cappetti, sent a letter confirming that the conditions that had been granted to me in the newspaper were precisely these. The negotiation ended. For eighteen months everything went on as planned: my secretary sent the notes with receipts to Rai's financial management, which gave the 'okay' to the payment every month (repeat, every month). In June 2010, Masi sent a circular, in which he recalled the directive of the former Director General Cattaneo of 2005, in which it was expected that expenses without the names of the beneficiaries should be submitted for approval by the Director General: having the agreement I spoke about, I thought I was dispensed with. And, however, there continued to be no dispute over my known expenses. Not to mention - not to mention - that months later, in my trial, the director of TG1 of the Cattaneo era, that is, Clemente Mimun, testified, together with his deputy director, that it was established practice in the company that the director of TG1 did not indicate the names of his guests for a matter of confidentiality: a testimony that has never been contested by anyone. But let's go back to those days. No one told me anything about this problem until one of the board members, Rizzo Nervo, put the matter to the general manager Masi, who didn't have the clear ideas in his head (in Rai often happens) slurred and contradicted himself. In two letters he gave two different answers: in the first, addressed to Councillor Rizzo Nervo, he called the card a compensatory benefit in exchange for the exclusive; in the second, addressed to the undersigned, he changed the nature of the paper into a kind of facility, claiming that between me and the company there was an administrative misunderstanding and, recognizing my good faith, asked me to reinstate the sums. I would like to point out that - unlike other cases of this kind - the type of expenditure concerned only lunches or dinners with two to three people. I do not hide my disappointment at the turn of the company summit. Among other things, I wrote to the Director General: The company could have warned me about this short-circuit procedure before and not wait 18 months. And a simple warning would solve this misunderstanding in the bud. Also be outraged, I decided, without blinking, to give back to the company all the sum in question, that is exactly what the company required back. I returned the sum and told the company that I would go to the labour judge. At the same time, in another letter, failing the condition of the credit card, I asked to resume the collaboration with "Panorama": a request that was immediately accepted: so the collaboration, considered a year and a half before by the president of the Rai ethically and contractually incompatible, became quietly lawful. Mysteries of Rai, but also confirmation, indirect, that the card was a compensatory benefit of the exclusive. I returned the sums, then, even before I received the peculate guarantee notice. I did so only because of a matter of pride: to be accused by someone, even in bad faith, of having squandered public money I thought, and I think, an offense. So much so that I gave back all the sum, without questioning, to show that in the performance of my duties as director Rai had not paid me a coffee, or a guest of mine, but that it was, if anything, the exact opposite. Sinful of ingenuity, I was convinced that the story had ended there. But in the meantime, a statement presented by Mr Di Pietro had set in motion the Rome Public Prosecutor's Office. The investigation did not reveal evidence, an episode, a testimony, from which it could be deduced that I had gone to dinner for my own private business. In fact, on 26 April 2011, the Board of the Order of Journalists closed the matter unanimously. Same thing the Court of Auditors did, on December 6, 2011, but two months before the coup in Rome had sent me back to trial. The first hearing of the trial took place on March 8, 2012. The first degree trial lasted just over a year: dozens of witnesses were heard and a mountain of documentary evidence examined. The prosecutor began his requisition, warning the court that there was no direct evidence that I had done that wrongdoing. There was not, to be clear, the so-called smoking gun. So the trial ended with absolution. I thought my ordeal was over, but it was just starting. I limit myself to the raw news, because in my case it is more effective than any comment. In the year that separated first-degree acquittal from second-degree conviction, five events took place. First, I was elected to Parliament, so I became part of the country's most vicious category, that of politicians. Second: the labor judge, perhaps the most experienced court of the mechanisms of a journalistic company, forced Rai to give me back the money that the company had asked me for, since in my eyes it appeared as the definitive confirmation of my innocence. Thirdly, I have strongly argued with the then head of state, Giorgio Napolitano; someone will disagree, but the dialectic is the salt of politics. Fourthly, I voted against constitutional reforms, in disagreement with my parliamentary group. Fifth: I have denounced to the Court of Strasbourg the President of the Senate for the conduct of parliamentary work on constitutional reform, too careful - in my opinion - to the needs of the Government. Needless to say, it was only political polemics, in which there was nothing personal. At the end of this journey, on October 27, 2014, there was the appeal process. And there, in four hours - I say four hours - without reopening the investigation, taking new evidence, collecting new testimonies or listening again, the sentence of acquittal has been overturned. Moreover, the court went beyond the demands of prosecutors both at first instance and on appeal: if they had asked for two years, the court sentenced me to two years and six months, and to ban from public offices for the same period of the sentence. In short, he condemned me to silence, because he didn't even recognize the attenuating, almost obvious, return of money even before the beginning of the criminal proceedings, exceeded the two years foreseen for the parole and triggered the institution of decadence contained in the Severino law. Moreover, with the ban from public offices, he deprived me of the right to vote and decreed, in fact, the suspension from the Order of Journalists. In short, it is a sentence that delivered me to oblivion. [[Live and sustained applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (Ncd-CpE), ALA-SCLP and CoR Groups]] and Senators Buemi, Centinaire, Fucksia, Giovanardi and Stefani). I am struck, above all, by two details of the sentence. First: the court indicates as an element of guilt, the use of the credit card on my birthday, without explaining if on that day I had made a private use of it and, mainly, without such an element ever being disputed to me in the course of the trial; in thirty-five years of profession I, as I believe many of you, have never taken a vacation on my birthday, which for me has always been a day of work like another. Secondly, the sentence does not even recognize me as the attenuating of the return of money that I, as you will remember, gave back to Rai even before receiving the guarantee notice. The reasoning behind this is, in my opinion, captious and illogical. My fault would have been that I didn't calculate the damage. But how could I do that? The company didn't ask me at the time. And if I had done it on my behalf, such a choice would have been interpreted as an admission of guilt. Not to mention that later, as you know, I was acquitted in the first degree and the labor judge forced Rai to give me my money back. And finally, paradox in the paradox, now that following the final condemnation I have given the company the money back again, the latter has not asked me for the damages. We must be shocked at the absence of any logic. I was shocked by the sentence, but I thought the court had taken a crab and, having faith in the judiciary, I convinced myself that the cassation would change the direction of the appeal court. At least that's how I hoped for that moment. Instead, a year later, the Cassation confirmed the sentence. I would just like to comment on one aspect of the High Court's decision. The sixth section of the Cassation is the same that had annulled the sentence of condemnation of the court of appeal of Genoa against the former chief of police, Gianni De Gennaro, on the facts of the G8, overturning the sentence of acquittal in first instance. Reason? The appeal had not brought any new evidence and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights provides that an acquittal can only be reversed by reopening the investigation. Exactly as it had happened to me: but in cassation, in the same section, the results for me were different. Yet, several times in the past, the High Court had made the very orientation of the European Court of Human Rights. Not to mention that on 28 April last, that is six months after my condemnation, a sentence of the reunited sections of the Cassation has reaffirmed again in extremely solemn terms that the reversal of a sentence of acquittal, between the first and the second degree, can take place only by reopening the investigation. From that moment on, I didn't give up. I began to analyze what had happened, with the state of mind of those who felt betrayed by justice. And I found out that in the appeal court, the one that overturned the first-degree acquittal sentence, there was a judge who's been in politics for 20 years. The judge in question, Giannicola Sinisi, has in fact had a long career in politics in the opposition to that in which I find myself: he was mayor of Andria; he has been candidate for the Presidency of the Apulia Region; he has been deputy, Undersecretary to the Ministry of the Interior in the first Prodi Government (and in that group the Minister of the Interior was Senator Napolitano) and, again, Undersecretary to the Ministry of the Interior in the Government of Alema; he was then senator from 2006 to 2008 and, from 2008 to 2013, legal adviser to the Italian embassy in the USA (other political nomination, since it depends on the Ministry of Justice). I mean, for the years that he spent in the institutions, he was 20 times more political than I was. This is the judge who sentenced me, overturning an acquittal sentence, and who, again, increased by six months the penalty requested twice by the public prosecutor, making me in this way incur the Severino law. To me all this seems like an enormity: the king is really naked. In the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, someone blamed me for not rejecting that judge, but I didn't know that, I'm not a regular courtroom attender, and my lawyers were ignoring his past. If anything, there is one thing to think about: three years ago, this House fired a law that would have prevented that judge from being part of that court, a measure that the House is still late in approving, despite dealing with a crucial topic for the functioning of every democracy, on which, just a few weeks ago, a new warning came from Europe. The Group of States against Corruption, the so-called Greek (Groupe d'Etats contre la corruption), the body of the Council of Europe, has in fact approved twelve recommendations to our country, the first of which calls for stricter limits for the participation of magistrates in politics. It reads: It is clear that the Italian legislation contains several gaps and contradictions in this regard, which raise doubts from the point of view of the separation of powers and the necessary independence and impartiality of judges. In this logic, the body points to the negative effect that any alleged politicisation of the profession can have on the perception that citizens have of the independence of the entire judiciary. Looks like it's good for this. The truth is that times change, and not for the better. For example, the former Senator of DC Lucio Toth, who returned to the judiciary, refrained from participating in the college that should have judged Arnaldo Forlani, his former party secretary, because, as a party friend and colleague, he was convinced that he did not appear impartial. It is an institutional tact, but it also belongs to many of today's many criticized or honored judges. There are countless public occasions in which characters like Di Pietro, Canton or Davigo himself have publicly stated that a judge who chooses to enter politics should not return to the judiciary. Moreover, it is almost an obvious fact: how can one accept that a magistrate, who entered politics and returned to the judiciary, can judge an opponent? In such a condition, where does the principle of thirdness end, of impartiality of the judge? Such a situation occurs only in countries known to the chronicles of injustice, such as Turkey or Egypt, certainly not in a European Court. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and ALA-SCCLP, and Senators Compañera and Giovanardi.]] From us, a Luciano Violante would never dream of going back to the judiciary to judge Andreotti, nor would Antonio Di Pietro ever have thought of wearing his toga again to condemn Silvio Berlusconi in a courtroom. I will say more, and I address the 5 Star Movement Group: would you find it right if Senator Finocchiaro went back to the judiciary and found himself having to judge a Di Maio? What would you think? Or what would you say, all of you, if Michele Emiliano, politician, magistrate for twelve years in expectation and now candidate for the secretariat of the PD, would return in the future to his old profession to judge in court Matteo Renzi? I'm almost laughing. What has happened is worrying and offers a glimpse of our system that is alarming. To return to the central character of this affair, a judge, that is Sinisi, politician and magistrate - I say not, but as Wikipedia defines it - who decides on the permanence of a political opponent in Parliament is an unprecedented fact also in the annals of this Republic. This is an issue which not only raises the problem of the politician who returns to the judiciary, but which, more generally, reverses an issue that has characterized the debate of these years. The problem is not only to safeguard the autonomy of the judiciary from political power, but also to preserve the autonomy of politics from the judiciary. I am not the only one who raises this question, but also distinguished professors such as Sabino Cassese, who, among other things, on more than one occasion, reminded us that since 1994 the presence of judges in Parliament has tripled. Look, I believe that what has happened is not only with the law, but even with the common sense, especially if we take into account the regime established by the Severino law. Do you realize that? A magistrate, who has returned from politics, can decide, by raising his sentence by six months, even with respect to the demands of the public prosecutor in both degrees of judgment, the forfeiture from Parliament of a member of the opposing party. But do you realize what infernal mechanism you invented? And a political class worthy of this name, in the face of this extraordinary case, can take refuge behind automatisms, precedents and praxis? I do not think so, as I believe only the leguleans can defend the retroactive application of a rule such as the Severino, insofar as Article 2 of the Criminal Code, Article 25 of the Constitution and Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights are concerned. They liquidate everything as an administrative sanction, forgetting that the primary crime, the one on which the controversial law intervenes, is criminal. Unfortunately, our system is full of inconsistencies and contradictions, but above all, there is a political vacuum as big as an ocean: to assure a defendant a third judge, impartial, that he was not a political opponent. This vacuum should be filled by you with an assumption of responsibility in order not to increase the distance that divides us from other European countries. I am convinced that many of you share these concerns. But then there are the reasons for politics, which prevent this awareness from becoming a coherent act. But I ask myself: can politics, the logics of deployment, the opportunistic assessments of part cause you to put in parentheses your conscience and your free conviction? If you prefer the path of automatism; if you implement a pilatestic behavior and - allow me - hypocritical, what remains of politics? In my opinion, nothing! Just a huge emptiness! One tells you that, in the four years he was in the Senate, he often found himself voting against the indications of his group. The matter is even bigger here, because no one knows what tomorrow could be for us. The risk of a regime, of a decadence of our democracy, is always around the corner. Remember: in the old Soviet Union, as in any other regime, opponents were never granted the status of political adversary; they were always condemned, not because of the diversity of ideas, but as evildoers. The need for Parliament to assess on the substance the legal situation of one of its members is, therefore, a primary requirement, precisely in order to avoid even the slightest shadow of persecution, precisely so as not to throw discredit on our democracy. That is why politics is, first and foremost, an assumption of responsibility. For my part, I assumed this responsibility in full: I have arrived until today, until the last stage of this Calvary. I'm ready to drink the hemlock. The history of humanity, after all, is a long list of injustices: just today, thirty-nine years ago, that gentleman of Aldo Moro was kidnapped, and subsequently killed. Then, whatever the outcome of today's vote, I will resign as a senator. Sure you have your conscience in place. However, I offer you an opportunity to send a signal on a sensitive issue which concerns our judicial system and our democracy. There is a phrase that months ago told me Antonio Di Pietro, that is the character that with his exposure is at the origin of this absurd affair. The sentence still buzzes in my ears. He said, "Maybe the trouble you've had, you've had it for this experience in politics. Politics brings trouble. This is a bitter truth not so much for me as it is for this country. Let us look ourselves in the eye: a society in which politics is not a confrontation of ideas, it is not the highest service that can be given to your country, but it turns into an infernal mechanism that brings trouble does not have a tomorrow. The guarantees for fair justice are the humus of every democracy. And with these words I leave you to your consciences and responsibilities. [[Live and sustained applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD, Mixed, AP (Ncd-CpE), ALA-SCLP, (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE), GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI), LN-Aut and CoR]] . Many congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u22	The debate on this document is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency has received a number of agendas, the texts of which are distributed, which are intended to be presented. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, if she wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u23	Mr President, it is my duty to take action to respond to issues that have been used and misplaced today. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] I hope that is not my answer to the question. I said that it is my duty to intervene because, since I did not read the entire report, certain subjects, which were extensively dealt with there, were presented today in a misleading way to the House and on one in particular I have to intervene. I also need some clarification on the nature of the Junta. I will not reply and say a word about Senator Minzolini's intervention, except to say that I agree with him on one point, namely that it is time to assume responsibilities and that we do not need pilatesque and hypocritical behaviors. [[Applause from Senator Cardiello.]] I fully agree with that, even if he has said so in one direction, while I repeat it at the beginning, and I will also do so at the end of my reply, because I would adversely judge that the House, in order not to assume its own responsibilities, would take pilatesque and hypocritical decisions that lead to the end of the legislature without deciding on the issue at our examination. We enter into the merit of the events: the nature of the Junta. Gentlemen, I invite you - while I try to do so myself who do not have the tones of the tribune or at least of the magistrate investigator, because I have never been, I have always been a judge - to adopt the same tone in which I address you, which is the tone of politics. If you allow me, after so many roboating phrases (which made me think about when I was a judge and, while I am aware of the facts, I thought about what is meant by certain statements), I would now use the language of politics, so we all understand each other. The election committee, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, took decisions. I can also say, without hiding a "secret of Pulcinella," that on these decisions I have been in the minority. Then, regardless of whether or not it changed its mind, the Junta took decisions: we are talking about decisions that have even affected the course of the legislature. The first decision was taken by the Junta on 2 July 2013. The Junta, like any collegiate body that respects itself, does not take occasional or episodic decisions on matters of right, changing direction from time to time, especially because here we are not faced with a question on which we have spoken on appeal, but it is a theme that directs the activity of the Junta. On 2 July 2013, we declared the question of advanced constitutional legitimacy on electoral law to be unacceptable. We were in the process of validating the elected ones and various remarks were raised, which then addressed the Constitutional Court in other ways, and, since those remarks had been raised by other subjects in other places and with other legitimacy, the Assembly of the elections decided that it was not a judicial body and on the basis of this assumption it proceeded to validate the elected ones, that is to say, to our validation. Subsequently, on 18 September 2013, the election council itself decided that it was not a court in another procedure involving the head of the opposition, Silvio Berlusconi. Today the case of a colleague is exciting, but I can tell you that the case of my colleague Mr Berlusconi (who I do not know, unlike my colleague Mr Minzolini, and therefore I have no personal reason to say this) bothered me and made me tremble over the responsibility that was entrusted to me, because declaring the decadence of the head of the opposition, although it is not and cannot constitute a political decision, is a serious assumption of responsibility of the Assembly and even before the election committee. On that occasion, we also examined all the related issues, aware of the judgments that have been cited and the guidelines adopted in the previous ones, both of the Senate and of the House, and we came to the conclusion that we could not raise questions before the Constitutional Court and the European Court, because we were not a judge: a decision that someone in this House today asks the Junta to review. I shall then make a serious speech. In the face of a hypothetical agenda that asks the Junta to assess these issues, I call all of them to responsibility and seriousness, because it would be like saying to me, that I am an ordinary member of that Junta, that in distant periods but in this legislature, with my personal vote and with my contribution (because I made an explanation of vote for the PD), a decision of decadence was issued that was political in nature, while for me it was a necessary act of law enforcement. And I have neither celebrated nor rejoiced at that law enforcement. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] , because the law applies, does not rejoice and does not applaud; does not do such things, but simply applies. Above all, the law applies it to an organ such as this Assembly, which also has a power other than any other subject, that of amending the laws. When we do not then change the laws, because we do not have the majority or for any other reason, then we must respect them: I believe that this is a precise duty [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] Therefore, halt: do not talk about a Junta must review its positions. We're all serious. The Junta made a decision and nothing new emerged. The robust speeches and the effect of my colleagues on me have no effect (I say this because a colleague was not even polite with my report, and I will go straightaway to say why). These speeches impress those who do not know the right, and that is why we speak in technical and not political terms. I am not here to be a judge, because the judge has done so, even in a decent way, elsewhere; here I speak as a politician and I say that you cannot ask the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which has validated your elections and proposed the decadence of the opposition leader, to revise at the end of the term of office an approach which it still shares. For this reason, if you send this measure back, you only do so because you do not want to take responsibility at the moment, while politics is responsibility. Another argument which has been dealt with in an entirely inadequate way concerns the newness of the Court's judgment, which provided for the need for the renewal of acts. But do you think that the Junta did not notice and did not raise the problem, even though it was outside our mandate? As everyone knows, there is a revocation of a judgment passed in court: there are neither the applause nor the tears, but the revocation of the sentences; it is not the political classrooms that do these things. However, it is necessary to read the documents to the full, because those who assume the responsibility to represent the political groups in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities do not do so with any mandate, but they also go there to be diligent. We then read pages 20 and 21 of the report, stating that in this case too we gave an unsolicited answer, but that it should be exhaustive. In other words, we pointed out that in this case the problem did not arise, as stated in the same judgment of the Minzolini case of 15 November 2015. The Court of Cassation, cutting its head to the bull on the speech of the renewal (which is not automatic, but it is a choice that the judge must make on some premises), states in 2015 (first, therefore, of the judgment of 2016): "There is therefore no need to renew the debate on appeal in order to proceed to a new discussion of the witnesses felt at first instance when, as in the case at hand, the Territorial Court reaches the reform of the judgment of absolution and the affirmation of the criminal responsibility of the accused on the basis of the same depositions assumed by the first judge and without carrying out a different assessment of reliability - in accordance with the recognition of both judgments - limiting itself to a re-reading - and evaluation - in a way suitable to provide the only possible reconstruction of the facts in the same way as the complex of the declarative and documentary evidence collected by the Court of Cassation. This relief, therefore, is also entirely aimed at obtaining effective sentences. I keep thinking that Senator Minzolini's behavior, which is certainly touched personally, is very respectful, so much so that he did not, as you have heard, make a single reference to the behaviour of colleagues of the Junta or to the process we have followed, but he spoke of his case, as is right and as anyone has the right to do. On the other hand, I find it inappropriate for us here to give judgements, because no one is entitled to give them in this House, on how the reports are written and, above all, on the need to make excerpts from reports, when the arguments that are being dealt with in this House are precisely those that are contained in the parts to be deleted. We want to talk about fumus in this House too, we want to talk about the relationship between judges and politics, which I do not want to touch for reasons that are intuitive. In the part where we write about this, we should expunge and censor ourselves, and then be able to say anything, because politics is often talking about freedom and saying whatever comes to mind in order to reach its goal. I reject this policy and say to Senator Palma that he should not be allowed to talk so about things that cost others difficulty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Think about how he writes. If we, as a Junta, have recognized the need and the opportunity to be exhaustive also on arguments that are dealt with by the defense, to give answers to a colleague and to a defense that had dealt with those arguments, it must not come the senator in turn to explain - not to the judge, but to the colleague - that it is not at all so written... [[Live comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group. Applause from Senator Dirindin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u24	Let Senator Lo Moro finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u25	THE DEAD, rapporteur. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have tried to be balanced and that none of us care about our own positions. In the meantime, I would like to thank all the other people who have participated in the debate, such as Senator Falanga, whom I see here, but also others, who have expressed absolutely respectable opinions and with completely adequate tones. We have made a proposal and this House must assume the responsibility of accepting it or rejecting it. Any other hypocritical solution, as a chaste policy, is completely alien to me. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u29	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like the rapporteur to give her peace and at least leave it to the House to accept or not the results of the examinations carried out by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. I believe that this is a faculty that can still remain with us. I would like to make a general premise, Mr President, because a government has changed, the presidencies of certain committees must be renewed and I take advantage of this situation to point out to your Presidency and to the House that it is a well-established practice for the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to be the preserve of oppositions. If anyone had escaped, Senator Stephen votes with a majority. [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] It is well known that I am not usually - indeed, almost never - in agreement with what Senator Zanda often says in this House. However, I would like to recall for just a moment - and then start with that - the last consideration that Senator Zanda made yesterday about the Lotti affair. Senator Zanda said: "Justice is done in courtrooms." I believe that this statement is very relevant in the assessments we are going to make today. This is to say that today we do not care about the Minzolini case as we have seen it represented, because we are not called to express a judgment of guilt or not. We are called upon to express a political opinion on the whole matter. And if we want to see, the Minzolini case is the summa of all the shortcomings and negligences of the legislative body. In essence, within this thorny affair there is a j'accuse against us for all that we could and should have done and that, instead, we have not done. On all of them, one issue appears to me to be a matter which we have dealt with in this parliamentary term and which we have left unsolved. I am talking about re-entering the roles and functions of those magistrates who have played or had political roles. The measure, dismissed by the Senate on March 11, 2014, sleeps quietly at the Justice Commission of the House. This is the key argument, beyond all the procedural twists that in general discussion have been punctually reported by Senators Palma, Caliendo, Falanga and not least, in addition, also by the reading of the whole story made by Senator Minzolini. This is the key argument that undermines at the base the assessment that the Junta expressed on the case, that is, that of the decadence of Senator Minzolini. In summary, Minzolini is acquitted in the first instance, condemned on appeal by a panel of judges in which Dr. Sinisi, magistrate and political exponent opposed to that of Senator Minzolini, and the sentence is confirmed in Cassation. My assessment, and my Group's assessment, is all there is to it. If it is true as it is true that the magistrate in the exercise of his duties must, not only be impartial, but also appear such, the result on this matter is obvious. We cannot be sure that Senator Minzolini has been impartially judged. Still, we understand well how unholy the political class has been, but we will never participate in that horde of demagogues and populists who want to do shit of constitutional principles. We do not escape the principles that have animated the so vicious institution of immunity provided for in our Constitution. The goal to the constituent Fathers was very clear. To prevent an imbalance between the main powers of the State, legislative, executive and judicial, in favour of the State, of course. The principle was very simple: a judge with persecutory intent towards a Member could use his power to prevent him from performing his duties. Well, ultimately today we evaluate Minzolini but we could have discussed Di Maggio, Crimi, Zanda, Buemi, any other senator and we would have expressed the same assessment. We would have voted, and we vote, for Senator Minzolini's non-decoration. And above all, we would like this vote to be a start for the legislator to return with good policy to assert the supremacy of its function. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u32	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, with regard to the case that we are debating today, the task of the Senate is necessarily limited to verifying whether the conditions for the application of the rules on incandidability introduced by the so-called Severino law exist, without entering into the substance of the case and refraining from any improper interference with the activities carried out by the competent judicial authorities. In the case in question, Senator Minzolini has been sentenced to a sentence of more than two years' imprisonment for a crime - that of peculate - covered by the same Severino law. In this sense, as already highlighted by a constant and consolidated jurisprudence, the incandidability that has occurred and the consequent forfeiture from the parliamentary seat do not constitute a sanction, but constitute measures aimed at preventing limited categories of subjects from having - or continuing to exercise - for a certain period of time established by the law as public offices after it has been established, in full respect of their constitutional guarantees, that these subjects have given certain and unequivocal proof of the objective loss of those requirements of discipline and honor that our Constitution requires for the fulfilment of public functions. For the reasons set out above I declare the vote of the Article 1 Group Democratic and progressive movement in favour of the conclusions contained in the document of the Junta to our examination. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u35	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is superfluous for me to tell you that I believe that all the speeches in this area should be of a personal nature, because when you are called upon to decide on the fate of a person, there are not collective political positions, but personal assessments that deal primarily with the conscience and knowledge of the facts of each of us. We are called upon to decide on particularly sensitive issues, which directly affect our conception of democracy and the rule of law. Apparently we are discussing the fate of Senator Minzolini, but in essence we are discussing our legal civilization, our democracy and the autonomy and separation of powers. We discuss our ability to separate the field of criminal responsibility from that of the political-judicial exploitations that have been the cause of the political-judicial disaster of our country. The question we are debating - the retroactivity of the so-called Severino law - is a matter for the European Court of Human Rights. Let's talk about the role of magistrates in politics and politicians in the judiciary (pretend it in the direction you prefer). We are talking about the role of the managers of public companies and their role as public officials, interpreted according to the conveniences of one situation, rather than the other. We discuss the decision on revocation as a final act that is attributed to us by the constituent legislator, the last instance of the Assembly belonging to the parliamentarians and therefore not automatic. Colleagues, we must reflect today so that we do not have to back down and self-criticize tomorrow. All too often in recent years we have had to correct our attitude according to the stage. I do not want to be in this situation and I continue to keep the bar straight in the direction of respect for fundamental principles concerning the autonomy of politics with respect to the judiciary and the non-retroactivity of the rules, not only criminal. Colleagues, in Europe there is not only the principle of non-retroactivity of criminal rules, in Europe there is the principle of non-retroactivity of rules because the citizen must have a legal framework at a time when he makes his own choices, whether they are choices of conduct of criminal importance or choices of opportunity and perspective of his own life. The citizen must be able to deal with a certain situation that does not evolve according to the conveniences. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from a legal point of view, I fully agree with what Senator Nitto Palma has said and from the point of view of merit I fully agree with Mr Minzolini's speech because the facts are what he has described. You can judge differently, but the facts are the ones he described. Colleagues, it is not about being either hypocrites or cynics, it is not about being against the judiciary, nor about being friends or enemies of someone or someone else. Today we have to deal with the fact that what we decide is final, we transfer the situation to a situation of greater tragedy and we decide on the death or life of a colleague on whom we can have different opinions politically but, at the same time, we also have an awareness of the facts. Colleagues, on this I agree with my colleague Mr Lo Moro: we must assume our responsibility even if, as my colleague Mr Nitto Palma said, we could go back to the Commission to discuss it again. Frankly, I don't need to argue again. I have discussed in Junta, I have taken a position that I confirm today in this House and I am convinced that there is a sub-iudice law and the sure behaviour of a colleague judged in a at least questionable way by a magistrate who has performed important political functions and on which, let me say, although I am of the same political part, I may have some suspicion of partisanship. In the face of a condemnation, because this is a matter of colleagues, not of an automatism but of a decision of condemnation of the colleague, I assume the attitude of prudence, which in the one who must judge must always be maintained: prudence in attributing, prudence in judging, prudence in particular when the decision is final. Colleagues, I cannot but be opposed to the Junta's report, I can only draw attention to the future with which we will be called to deal when the European Court of Human Rights will have to rule on the matter of Senator Berlusconi, who was part of this House, but also external political leaders who are candidates for regional elections or other colleagues who have been declared dead by reference to a law (the Severino law) which, frankly, once again, as often happens in our country, has been assumed by Parliament in emergency conditions. Colleagues, laws must not be made in emergency conditions. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] The laws go beyond the emergency. Laws are the future of a country [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. For these reasons, with the doubt of what can still happen, I can only claim the position of the person who, in the face of a situation of uncertainty and reasonableness - because this is also the case, colleagues - decides to vote against the report and to vote against it. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u38	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. I respect the work of the rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro, and thank you for saying in this House that you have appreciated, albeit in different positions, the moderation of my remarks. I will make my explanation of vote by moving from an exquisitely technical plan, which I have dealt with in the general debate, to go on the subjective and personal one. Senator Minzolini has played his role in this House in respect of the principle of autonomy of mandate: as he said, I also like to recall his vote on constitutional reforms. Senator Minzolini, your free voice serves politics and we cannot allow it to be silenced by a vote. For these reasons I announce the ALA-Civic Chosen Group's vote against the Liberal and Popular Constitutional Assembly's report on elections and parliamentary immunity [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u39	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the All-inclusive Istituto Ciampoli-Spaventa in Atessa, in the province of Chieti, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u42	D'Ascola (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, I would just like to raise one specific and limited problem which, nevertheless, has a decisive effect on the solution of the legal problem. It must be understood whether the suspension determined by the declaration of revocation from the office of senator has a sanctioning nature, that is, whether it is a sanction that recalls ethical, moral contexts, that is, the unworthiness to hold a certain political office. Between the two different alternatives, the temporal problem obviously arises. I mean that if it is a specific sanction it must undoubtedly be subject to those rules also constitutional of a criminal law which requires that the law be prior to the fact committed. In a totally contrary way, if it were a kind of unworthiness to hold a political office, the principle of guaranteeing unfavorable irretroactivity, which is in the Constitution in Article 25, paragraph, should not operate. So these are the terms of the matter. I do not allow myself to entertain the Senate on a question that fascinates the criminal doctrine on several sides, therefore on what is the nature (whether sanctioning or not) of a provision, with reference to different sectors of criminal law, but I directly adhere to the introductory law of this measure in order to understand whether in the text of Legislative Decree No. 235 of 2012 exist, as positive normative data, of the arguments demonstrating that, in this case, we are faced with a criminal sanction and as such to subject ourselves to that principle of unfavorable irretroactivity that - I repeat - lies in our Constitution. We therefore have a series of indices which I would like to see clearly demonstrated in this regard, i.e. in the sense of the certainly sanctioning nature of the measure of forfeiture due to incandidability, and thus demonstrate the need for that provision (so without touching the law) to be applied to events which are subsequent, from a temporal point of view, to the introduction of Legislative Decree No 235 of 2012, dated 31 December 2012 and which, if I am not mistaken, entered into force five days after its publication. I repeat, the question here does not arise because the facts challenged to Senator Minzolini are largely before the date of December 31. Well, we have three arguments of positive law, within the legislative text that should be applied, demonstrating the need to respect a fundamental canon of constitutional criminal law. I repeat the anteriority of the law to the fact to prevent phenomena of unfavorable retroactivity. First point: the so-called law, improperly, Severino provides that the duration of the suspension due to incandidability occurred is related to the ancillary penalty of prohibition from public offices (understand, related from the temporal point of view). We have, therefore, a first fact that links the duration of the suspension to the duration of an ancillary penalty provided for by the penal code, an argument that certainly militates in favour of the sanctioning nature and - I would say, even more - the criminal law of the suspension. If we talk only about sanctions, in fact, we could imply a scenario of punitive administrative law; in this case we are related to the ancillary penalty of ban from public offices. Second argument. The so-called Severino law provides for a single cause of extinction of the suspension following the declaration of forfeiture due to incandidability: it is, precisely, Article 178 of the penal code, that is, rehabilitation. We have, therefore, a sanction linked to the ban from public offices, therefore to an ancillary penalty, which is extinguished only by the recourse of the conditioning components to the application of rehabilitation, which is an extinct cause of the penalty referred to in the penal code. Moreover, the last paragraph of Article 13 states that the incandidability and therefore the duration of the suspension is increased by a third if the facts are committed by abuse of the powers or in violation of the duties inherent in the ownership of a political office. This means that the duration is, among other things, built as an aggravating circumstance. In fact, if it is connected to the ownership of political offices, the basic orthodox duration of suspension due to incandidability occurred has increased by an entire third, according to that normative scheme of the penal code, regulating the so-called circumstances with common effect. These are the three concomitant reasons, all of which are in the same direction and not unrelated to the legislative text. This is an important point: these are arguments that we draw not from the legal order considered as a whole or from other sections of the legal order, but directly from the Severino law. For this concomitant and triple series of convergent reasons, I do not believe that, while respecting and maintaining the Severino law, a sanction of a criminal nature for a fact committed before the date of entry into force of the law that introduced it can be applied. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u45	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a necessary premise to Mr Di Maggio, who said just now that this could happen to some of us and he also quoted me. I just want to say that if there were Crimes in Minzolini's place, he wouldn't have forced this Senate to discuss his case by taking time away from more important issues. He would have resigned immediately, as happened with all the other cases. [[Protests from PD and Misto-IdV groups. Ironic applause from Senator Bencini]] I speak for myself. I've been brought up and I'm saying what I would have done. It is not personal, there are neither winners nor losers. There is only respect for the rules and respect for the laws. I do not intend to discuss the subject of the judicial affair involving Senator Minzolini and the curious and certainly interesting arguments which he has put forward, which should perhaps make some colleagues reflect, for example, on the opportunity to conclude the law governing the passages between the judiciary and politics, approved in this branch of Parliament for almost two years, and still standing in the Chamber's Justice Commission, which - I would like to point out - we too voted. That law would prevent these clashes between the judiciary and politics; we voted on it and if it is firm to the House, to the Justice Commission, the responsibility must be attributed to the Presidency of the Justice Commission of the House, to the Presidency of a deputy of the Democratic Party, as it happens, magistrate, who would therefore see limited his return to the judiciary at the end of his political career. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If it's not a conflict of interest, what else is that? I would therefore urge the Democratic Party to urge its Member, Mr Ferranti, to pursue that law, which has been passed in this branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the RAI issue, the management of credit cards, charges and allowances, an ad hoc debate should be opened. If everyone believes, as repeatedly emerged from the debate, that there has been a use-abuse of payment instruments by RAI managers, of which Senator Minzolini is perhaps the only one today to pay the consequences for an alleged - so say those who propose the return to Junta - use such tools that are not different from what they do and have done all, then we face this issue, we open an ad hoc debate on RAI, on how RAI money is managed. Let's see how the RAI cow mom has been milked in recent years by politicians and leaders appointed by politicians, instead of hiding the dust under the carpet [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the matter, this is a fulfillment that is part of our duties, to which we must provide for the respect that is due to the rules of the Constitution and the law. Fundamental respect for democratic life and civil coexistence. This is the point that has motivated and which must motivate our determinations: compliance with the rules: this and only this is what we are referring to. What we are celebrating in this House today is not a judgment on the merits of the accusations made in the trial against Senator Minzolini. It doesn't belong to us. We are called upon to take note of a decision made by the judiciary in three degrees of judgment and passed to judgment by the decision of the Court of Cassation. We must take note of this and take responsibility for the subsequent decisions, which are only the responsibility of this Senate. It is not possible in any way, with any argument, to complicate the reality of the facts which, on the contrary, is extremely simple. A citizen, perpetually banned from public offices, no longer holds electoral rights, can no longer vote and, consequently, can no longer be elected and if he has already been elected and is parliamentary, he lapses from his mandate, pursuant to Article 66 of the Constitution, or resigns. It is not about the victory of one side over the other, it is simply about the truth of the facts and it is about fulfilling our duty, our duty in this circumstance to respect the rules laid down by the Constitution and the law. These are words that you have already heard, because I read them a few days ago on another occasion; these are the words that President Sergio Mattarella used on 31 July 2007 on the proposal for the revocation of Caesar Previti. These are not my words, but they are the words of the President of the Republic. There is no persecutory intent, Senator Minzolini, and there should not have been another trial or a judgment of merit on the accusations made. For those who claim that the Junta was wrong where, once again, as in another similar case, it goes as far as defining the non-existence of fumus persecutionis, it is an incidental and not relevant passage, since the Junta itself then declares that it does not detect for the purposes of the conclusions. But it is true - and we must take note of this - that all too often in the past the Junta and this Parliament have acted on the basis of political conveniences rather than on the basis of facts. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] In almost all cases, however, these are interpretations that see a principle of self-protection, self-protection, self-acquittal, since in most cases the demands of the judiciary have been rejected and very few cases have been accepted. So, for once, indeed, for a second time, this Junta and this Parliament are voting according to law, respecting the rules. How could this Parliament be defined if it did not vote for the decadence of Senator Minzolini or other senator in the future, if condemned definitively? How could it be defined, if not an outlawed Senate, out of the law that the Senate itself approved? A counter-sense, for which a new wording of the law should be found, including automatic revocation, a simple taking of the decision of the courts, when these decisions are final. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the Junta's report and against the agenda. Finally, allow me to make a few comments on numbers, and these are also addressed to the Presidency. The Minzolini case in numbers, to date: 65,000 euros is the amount spent by Augusto Minzolini with the RAI credit card, for which he was sentenced (the amount then returned); two years and six months of imprisonment, in addition to the ban from the public offices, the penalty; 490 days passed since the sentence became final; 183 are the missing days to Augusto Minzolini to mature the right to perceive the vitality; 114 sessions passed without the Assembly having discussed the report of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity; 1,800 about the votes in which Senator Minzolini participated by sentenced (while he should have been declared deceased); 185,000 euros have been paid by the Senate to Augusto Minzolini after the sentence, in the form of allowances and refunds, in addition to the reimbursements from accounting and other transport facilities; 8,000 euros will be paid to Augusto Minzolini as an end of term for each year of stay in office. This is the situation of numbers. Therefore, I call on the Presidency to evaluate our proposal, Document II, No 32, which provides for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, providing for certain and rapid deadlines for the arrival in the Assembly of the decisions taken by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, subtracting the decision on their timetable from parliamentary majorities, instrumental to their non-approval. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u48	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, having taken note of the work of the Council, listening to the debate, listening to the rapporteur's suggestions and listening to Senator Minzolini's speech, in accordance with what the PD Group has also done in numerous previous votes of the Assembly on the decisions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, also on the issue that is on the agenda today, the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party Group have freedom of vote. I, having learned the decisions of the Court of Cassation, shall vote in accordance with the decisions of the Junta. I just add one political observation. If yesterday, during the debate on the issue that concerned Minister Lotti, Senator Crimi had spoken about, about which we heard today the absolute respect of the rules and the absolute need to keep the judicial power separate from the political power, well, if yesterday had spoken with these same intentions Senator Crimi, the 5 Star Movement would have expressed itself in a way different from how it expressed itself. [[Applause from the PD and ALA-SCLP Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). Zanda, it burns you!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u49	Senator Airola, please don't comment. Agendas G1 and G2 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u50	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I shall cancel the voting procedure. There is a request for clarification. I said that the G1 and G2 agendas were withdrawn. We shall vote on the G3 agenda, which is the one which calls for the decision of the Council to be rejected. Anyone who wants to approve the resolution of the Council knows how to vote. Those who want to vote on the agenda and, therefore, reject the Junta's proposal vote yes; those who want to confirm the Junta's resolution vote no. Let's be clear. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3, presented by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Live and sustained applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (Ncd-CpE), ALA-SCCLP and CoR groups. Congratulations very much.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-787.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12:43 a.m.
