ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 19 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (11:06 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2941, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Toninelli and others; Giachetti; Pisicchio; Lauricella; Locatelli and others; Orphini; Hope; Menorello and others; Wolves and Misuraca; Vargiu and Matarrese; Nicoletti and others; Parisi and Abrignani; Dellai and others; Lauricella; Cuperlo; Toninelli and others; Rigoni; Martella; Invernizzi and others; Valiante and others; Turco and others; Meloni Marco; La Russa and others; D'Attorre e altri; Forty; Menorello and others; Brunetta and others; Wolves and Misuraca; Constantine and others; Pisicchio; Fragomeli and others, 2621, 2726, 2749, 2762, 2793, 2843, 2876, 2905, 2911 and 2938. The rapporteur, Senator Torrisi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Minister Finocchiaro, fellow senators, today the bill before the Assembly was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 12 October and sent to the Senate the following day. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs began its discussion on 17 October and concluded its work at yesterday's sitting on Monday 23 October. While taking into account the tight examination times, it was my care, as President, to ensure respect for the prerogatives of the majority and opposition groups, organizing the work to ensure adequate spaces for all the phases of the reference office, with particular regard to the general discussion, without neglecting the requests, received by the Groups, aimed at deepening the content of the text approved by the House, through the hearing of constitutionalists. The stage of examination and voting on the amendments has also taken place at a time which I consider to be appropriate. In reporting on draft law No 2941, however, I would like to make some general comments. It is well known to all that the current electoral systems for the election of the Senate of the Republic and of the Chamber of Deputies are based on the regulations resulting from the cancellation effects produced by the decisions of the Constitutional Court n. 1 of 2014 and n. 35 of 2017. At the outcome of these decisions, the electoral laws for the two branches of Parliament have significant differences, which can produce heterogeneous results. Incongruent effects on the structure of the future Chambers could therefore be determined, with possible negative consequences on the stability and efficiency of the institutional system. The President of the Republic has on several occasions expressed his concerns in this regard, calling on Parliament, in accordance with the prerogatives of the legislative power, to make every effort to adopt coherent legislation between them. Throughout this parliamentary term, Parliament is called upon to act as an act of institutional responsibility, intervening to overcome the most serious problems of the current electoral legislation. I am aware that, in the context of scientific reflection on this subject, there is convergence about the need for electoral rules to be as stable as possible and that, in any case, they will be changed at a time distant from that in which they will have to be applied. However, it must be borne in mind that this assumption, which is certainly acceptable in general, gives way to the particular and unusual features of the present context, especially in view, as I said, of the heterogeneity of the two electoral systems, all the more evident when it is considered that, after the outcome of the referendum of 4 December last, the two Chambers retain the same power and exercise the same functions. In particular, they are both holders of the power to grant and revoke trust in the Government and it is precisely in view of this fundamental constitutional prerogative that the differences between the two systems stand out with extreme evidence. The most significant differences between the current two electoral systems are as follows. The Senate is allowed coalitions between lists, while the House of Deputies is not allowed. For the election of the Senate there is a complex system of barrier thresholds, while for the election of the Chamber of Deputies it is expected that the seats will be allocated to the lists that obtain, on a national basis, at least 3% of the valid votes, with the exception of the representative lists of recognized linguistic minorities, for which there is an ad hoc system. With regard to the preferences, for the election of the Senate, to the outcome of the judgment n. 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, Article 14 of Legislative Decree n. 533 of 20 December 1993, as amended by Law n. 270 of 2005, was declared unconstitutional in the part where it does not allow the elector to express the preference for candidates. For the election of the Chamber of Deputies, on the other hand, Law No 52 of 21 December 2015 provides that each list is composed of a leading candidate and a list of candidates, in favour of which the voter may express one or two votes in preference. The law for the election of the Chamber of Deputies provides rules to guarantee gender representation, while in the electoral law for the election of the Senate there is no provision of such tenor. Finally, for the election of the Senate there is no majority award, while for the election of the Chamber of Deputies there is a majority prize, even if only possible, in favour of the list that has reached, on a national basis, at least 40% of the valid votes. The description of the differences between the electoral systems for the election of the two branches of Parliament clearly shows the urgent need for action. I therefore believe that the Head of State's invitation should be accepted. As I have already said, Parliament is called upon to act in a responsible manner and, within the time available to it and taking into account the current political framework, to draw up complete and consistent electoral legislation. Certainly the solutions could be the most varied: majority electoral formulas based on single-name colleges; proportional electoral formulas, to which a wide spectrum of possible variants opens up; mixed formulas. Unfortunately, the time remaining before the natural end of the legislature does not allow further investigation into the best choice. Instead, at this stage of the legislature, the system must be secured by adopting coherent legislation, as much as possible shared and in line with the general indications emerging from the reading of the Constitutional Court's judgments in this matter. In the light of these canons, I believe that the text now before the Senate represents a point of balance. If the bill is passed, we would have uniform electoral systems for the two branches of Parliament. As can be seen from the reading of the parliamentary work in the Chamber of Deputies and as confirmed by the progress of the proceedings in the Senate, a positive convergence has emerged on this text between majority forces and some opposition forces. Some of the most significant principles that can be derived from the Constitutional Court's judgments are respected, with particular regard to the principle of representation and the principle of the candidate's knowledge by the elector. I would therefore like to refer in detail to the measure under consideration. The draft law outlines a mixed electoral system: the allocation of 232 seats to the Chamber of Deputies (including a college in Valle d'Aosta and 6 colleges in Trentino-Alto Adige) and 116 seats to the Senate (including a college in Valle d'Aosta and 6 colleges in Trentino-Alto Adige) is carried out in the one-named colleges, with majority formula, in which the most voted candidate is proclaimed elected: the allocation of the remaining seats takes place within plurinomial colleges, with proportional method between the lists and the coalitions of lists that have exceeded the barrier thresholds. The candidates included in the college list, in accordance with the order of presentation, are therefore declared elected in each multi-annual college, within the limits of the seats to which each list is entitled. For the Chamber of Deputies, each district is divided into single-member colleges and one or more multi-member colleges. The single-member colleges of the national territory are divided into each division on the basis of the population. The determination of single-member colleges, as well as that of multi-member colleges, is subject to a legislative delegation to be implemented within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. For the allocation of the remaining number of seats, by proportional method, each division shall be divided into plurinomial colleges, consisting of the aggregation of the territory of adjacent single-member colleges and such that each of them is normally allocated a number of seats not less than three and not more than eight. In the provision of delegation to the Government, it is specified that the determination of multi-name colleges takes place in such a way that the number of multi-name colleges in which a number of seats less than the average value is assigned is minimal. The number of single-member colleges is therefore determined by law, while the number of multi-member colleges, resulting from the aggregation of one or more single-member colleges, is referred to the legislative decree referred to in Article 3, on the basis of the guiding principles and criteria provided for therein. In the Senate the national territory is divided into 20 districts, corresponding to the territory of each Region. Each regional constituency shall be divided into single-member colleges and one or more multi-member colleges. The single-member colleges of the national territory are divided into each division on the basis of the population; the determination of the single-member colleges - as well as that of the multi-member colleges - is put, as for the Chamber of Deputies, to a legislative delegation to be implemented within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. In the Senate, too, multi-name colleges are constituted by the aggregation of the territory of adjacent single-name colleges and such that each of them is normally allocated a number of seats not less than two and not more than eight. The criteria and guiding principles for the implementation of the delegation are largely the same as those laid down for the determination of the colleges of the House. Each organized party or political group intending to appear in the elections, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, is required to deposit its mark and to indicate its name at the Ministry of the Interior within the prescribed time limits; at the same time as the filing of the mark, the electoral program must also be deposited, in which the name and surname of the person indicated as head of political force is declared. Both in the House and in the Senate, organized political parties or groups may present themselves as a single list or as a coalition. The coalition is unique at national level. Coalition parties present unitary candidates in single-member colleges. Both in the Chamber and in the Senate, in each multi-annual college, each list is made up of a list of candidates, presented in a given numerical order. The number of candidates may not be less than half, with rounding up to the upper unit, of the seats allocated to the multi-annual college and may not exceed the maximum limit of seats allocated to the multi-annual college; in any case, regardless of the number of seats allocated to the multi-annual college, the number of candidates on the list may not be less than two or more than four. When submitting the list, all candidates shall be indicated in the single-member colleges included in the multi-annual college; each list, under penalty of inadmissibility, shall submit applications in at least two-thirds of the multi-member colleges of the division. The list, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, must be signed by at least 1,500 voters and no more than 2,000 voters registered on the electoral lists of Municipalities included in the same plurinomial college or, in the case of multinomial college included in a single municipality, registered in the electoral sections of that plurinomial college. The text also gives a delegation to the Government, to be exercised within six months of the date of entry into force of the law, in order to define the modalities to allow in experimental way the collection in digital mode of the subscriptions necessary for the presentation of the lists. In the case of coalition-related lists, they shall present the same candidate in single-member colleges, with the exception of the lists representing recognized linguistic minorities, which may submit their candidates separately. Both in the House and in the Senate, no candidate can be included in lists with the same mark in more than five multi-name colleges, under penalty of nullity. The candidacy of the same person in more than one single-member college is nothing. The candidate in a single-member college may also be a candidate in multi-annual colleges, subject to the limit of five. The Member elected in several multi-name colleges shall be declared in the college in which the list to which he belongs has obtained the lowest percentage of valid votes compared to the total of valid votes of the college. The Member elected in a single-member college and in one or more multi-member colleges shall be deemed to be elected in the single-member college. Specific provisions are laid down to ensure gender representation. First, under penalty of inadmissibility, in the internal succession of lists in plurinomial colleges, both of the Chamber and of the Senate, candidates must be placed in a gender alternate order. At the same time, the House is expected that, in all the nominations submitted by each list or coalition of lists in the single colleges at national level, neither of the two genres can be represented to more than 60%, with rounding up to the nearest unit. In addition, in all lists in multi-name colleges presented by each list at national level, neither gender can be represented in the leading position to more than 60%, with rounding to the nearest unit. The National Central Office shall ensure that these requirements are met. The Senate has the same forecasts at regional level and it is up to the Regional Election Office to ensure that they are respected. With regard to the mode of expression of the vote, each voter shall have one vote to be cast on a single ballot box, bearing the name of the candidate in the single-member college and the marking of each list or, in the case of associated lists in coalition, the markings of those lists, together with the names of the candidates - two to four - in the multi-member college. The vote shall be expressed by drawing a sign on the rectangle containing the list mark and the names of the candidates in the multi-name college. The vote shall be valid in favour of the list and for the election of the candidate in the single college. If the sign is drawn only on the name of the candidate in the single-member college, the votes shall be valid in favour of the list and for the purposes of the election of the candidate in the single-member college; in the case of several lists linked in coalition, the votes shall be divided among the lists of the coalition in proportion to the votes obtained by each in the single-member college. If the voter draws a sign, however affixed, on the rectangle containing the candidate's name and surname in the single college and a sign on a rectangle containing the mark of a list to which the candidate is not linked, the vote shall be void. There are also new provisions on the basis of the details of the ballots and the ballot. In particular, electoral ballots are to be provided with an anti-fraud coupon with a progressive alphanumeric code. As already mentioned, in the single-member colleges the seat is assigned to the candidate who obtains the highest number of valid votes; in the case of equality, the youngest is elected by age. For the seats to be assigned to the lists and the coalitions of lists in plurinomial colleges, the Chamber is divided at national level, with proportional method, between the coalitions of lists and the lists that have exceeded the barrier thresholds. The barrier thresholds are 3% at national level for individual lists and 10% at national level for coalitions (as long as at least one intra-coalition list reaches 3%); for coalitions, in any case, the votes of parties that have not exceeded the threshold of one percent are not counted. Specific provisions guarantee linguistic minorities: in this case, the requirement is to reach 20% at regional level or to have elected at least two candidates in single-member colleges. The Senate shall be allocated to the lists by a proportional method and shall take place at regional level. Coalitions of lists which have obtained at national level at least 10% of the valid votes cast and lists which have obtained at national level at least 3% of the valid votes cast, as well as lists which have obtained at least 20% of the valid votes cast in the Region or, for linguistic minorities, have elected at least two candidates in the single-member colleges. At the end of the operations of the electoral offices, in which the number of seats is determined by the coalitions and lists, individual and coalized, are proclaimed elected in each multi-annual college, within the limits of the seats to which each list is entitled, the candidates included in the college list, according to the order of presentation. The manner in which both the Chamber and the Senate proceed to the proclamation of the elect in case of exhaustion of the list presented in the multi-annual college are also specified. First, the candidates presented on the list in the other multi-name colleges in the circuit. After all the circuit lists have been exhausted, the so-called "best losers" (based on the ranking drawn up by the circumscription electoral office) take over the single-name colleges of the multi-name college and, subsequently, the best losers in the one-name colleges of the constituency. The candidates presented on the list in the plurinomial colleges of the other districts are then proclaimed to be elected. In case of further incapience, the candidates of the related lists in coalition presented in the original plurinomial college and then in the other plurinomial colleges of the district shall be declared elected. In the event that seats still remain to be assigned, the best losers in the one-name colleges of the other districts and, finally, the candidates of the related lists in coalition presented in the plurinomial colleges of the other divisions take over. For the Senate, we proceed similarly, with the difference that the rules that allow the taking of candidates from other regions do not apply. With regard to the discipline of so-called subordinates - in the event that a seat remains vacant, even because it has occurred - it is expected that the seat will be assigned, within the same plurinomial college, to the candidate first of the non-elected according to the order of presentation. If a seat allocated to a single college remains vacant, supplementary elections shall be held. Article 5 contains a clause of financial invariance, whereas Article 6 contains transitional provisions. Some of these provisions concern the subscriptions required for the submission of applications in the first elections following the date of entry into force of the law. In particular, the provision made by paragraph 36 of Law No. 52 of 2015, regarding exemption from the collection of subscriptions, provides that this exemption applies for the first elections following the date of entry into force of the law, for the Chamber and the Senate, to parties or political groups formed in Parliamentary Group in at least one of the two Chambers on 15 April 2017. It is also expected that for the first elections after the date of entry into force of the law the number of subscriptions for the submission of nominations for the election to the Chamber of Deputies (at least 1,500 and no more than 2,000 subscriptions of the voters registered on the electoral lists of the plurinomial college) will in any case be reduced to half. A similar rule is foreseen for the Senate, where it is established that the number of subscriptions for the submission of nominations (the same as fixed for the Chamber, then from 1,500 to 2,000 voters registered on the electoral lists of the plurinomial college) is reduced to half for the lists presenting candidates in multinomial colleges in all districts. Paragraph 7, on the other hand, concerns the persons authorized to authenticate the subscriptions for the submission of lists: only for the next elections after the date of entry into force of the law, in addition to the subjects already foreseen, are lawyers entitled to legal aid in front of the higher jurisdictions enrolled in the register of a district of the electoral district. As far as qualified subjects are concerned, the text adds - as a rule - the metropolitan mayors and members of the metropolitan conference, as well as the metropolitan councillors, in the light of the institution of the metropolitan cities operated by Law No 56 of 2014. There are also time limits for the exercise of the right of option for the vote of Italians temporarily abroad. Other rules, on the other hand, concern passive electoral requirements for the foreign constituency. Firstly, the requirement of residence in the distribution of the foreign constituency is no longer required for those who intend to apply. At the same time, voters resident in Italy are expected to be candidates in a single division of the foreign constituency. Voters residing abroad may, in turn, be candidates only in the division of residence of the foreign constituency (Article 8 (4) of Law No 459 of 2001 is not amended which provides that voters residing abroad who have not exercised the option to exercise the right to vote in Italy, cannot be candidates in the districts of the national territory). Finally, it is expected that voters who occupy or have held, in the five years preceding the date of the elections, positions of government or elective political positions at any level or positions in the judiciary or in the armed forces in a country of the foreign constituency cannot be candidates in the foreign constituency. Finally, the law will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal. As I have already said, the fact that the electoral law is passed by Parliament a few months after the natural end of the legislature is justified by the particularity of the current institutional political context. Moreover, as some constitutionalists pointed out during the hearings, the change in electoral systems - contrary to what is thought or feared - almost never favours those who advocate reform, since there is a circular relationship of mutual influence between the electoral system and the political system. The political system is modelled on the basis of the electoral law adopted, modifying the political offer in forms that are not knowable ex ante. I therefore believe that it is necessary that the ground should be removed from this insidious political speculation, which is denied, in its truth, by the constitutional events of Italy over the last twenty-five years. On the contrary, I believe - apart from the legitimate positions taken by the various parliamentary groups - that it is in any case worth considering that Parliament has assumed the responsibility to legislate in electoral matters, fulfilling with scrupulousness a constitutional duty that requalifies its role and action. The attempt to equip the Chambers with more appropriate and coherent electoral laws also responds to a constitutional need, namely that electoral laws are of strictly parliamentary origin, since it is not appropriate - as pointed out in several fora - that the fundamental rules of political action, in particular those defining the methods of formation of elected bodies, be produced in locations other than Parliament. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u10	I greet on behalf of the Teachers' Assembly, students and students of the Technical Commercial Institute for Geometries (Alberto Baggi) in Sassuolo, in the province of Modena, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u11	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling and a suspensive question. He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u12	Mr President, making a law in Parliament at this moment, at this historic moment, which goes against the 5 Star Movement is a crazy, criminal thing, a nonsense. I could handle it this way, but I say it's also immoral. You don't make a law six months before the election to punish the Party. I am amazed that everyone accepts that on the eve of the elections a law is made that goes into the pocket of the party that could be the relative majority. With what face, parties that receive a prize in seats that overrepresents them compared to a possible relative majority party, then start to build a government? To speak this way he is not a fierce opponent of the majority, but a commentator friend of this Government, like the former director of "Il Corriere della Sera" (The Corriere della Sera), Paolo Mieli. Criminals. The crime involves dole, that is, will, a slutty will, a porcade, in fact, as Calderoli defined the disruption of his electoral law in 2005. This did not prevent him from voting on it, just as the League today is endorsing this new scumbag. It's natural, I'd say genetic: the Porcellum's children do dirty, reproduce, make electoral crowds to crawl votes! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They reduce democracy to a trough. If it repels parallelism, I can call you criminals again. When, after the three votes with the Porcellum, the Constitutional Court declared it unconstitutional, we asked to return immediately to the vote with the law that the Consulta had finally returned to the country. It was stated here in the Senate, in audition, even Professor Pace. Instead, the sons of the Porcellum who tried to devour the Constitution, excret a new unconstitutional law: the Italicum. When, then, again, the Court has dismissed it, restoring us a electoral model that is still in force and immediately applicable, representative of the popular and functional will to give governability - perhaps to the 5 Star Movement - they have no longer wanted it and are trying a third piggy: the Porcellum-Rosatellum. They do so a few months after the vote, with the blackmail of the vote of confidence that the government has placed for three times in the House. Yesterday we heard the Government say that it intervened only because requested by the Chamber of Deputies: lie! That's what the Democratic Party asked for. Here in the Senate the government announced it in advance, without anyone having invoked it, betraying its frenzy, as I told Pizzetti yesterday. Why is the vote of confidence serious? Because Article 72 of the Constitution for electoral laws obliges us to adopt the normal procedure of examination and direct approval, without the intervention of the Government to blackmail the free conviction of the parliamentarians. As early as 1980, President Nilde Iotti made this clear: in Parliament's regulations, confidence was not in the second part of the Rules of Procedure, which dealt with the legislative procedure. It's a special fact, apart from that. But this time they have done worse: confidence has been imposed on a law never discussed in the Commission, without hearings or simulation of its effects. With confidence, fundamental amendments could not be voted on in order to return to this vicious text a constitutional decency. Here again in the Senate, the general discussion in the Commission took place in a surreal climate, in the total absence of all the members of the majority, who then announced that it would reject every proposal in an amending phase, in a preventive and preconceived manner, even before the few amendments, less than two hundred, were illustrated. The Government has also announced for the Assembly the imposition of the vote trust; with confidence the Government doesn't care about the working times in the Commission; it doesn't care about the prerogatives of Parliament and, above all, about the millions of Italians exhausted by the crisis and annihilated by the economic recipes of these five years, which see in these games the umpteenth castle of the Palace and a system, what you represent, now on the gas barrel. We don't care much about that, but it's the country that's exhausted. On the substance of this measure countless are the profiles of unconstitutionality; I advise everyone to go and see the hearings on Thursday because they are illuminating. Briefly list these profiles: the joint vote without division violates the principle of equality, enshrined in Articles 3 and 48 of the Constitution; the votes of voters of a winning nominal candidate, despite having already found representation, are again counted for the proportional share. Then there is the point concerning the dragging of the vote, which states that if I want to vote only the person, my vote goes also to the crowd of parties that I do not want, by having other people elected that I also do not want. The system for the transposition of seats from higher levels to multi-name colleges and its consequences on the eligibility of voice lists violates the principle expressed by the Constitutional Court regarding the knowledge of the effects of voting. It could happen that my vote in such a college has another person elected to another college that I do not know and in my college, thanks to the thresholds studied with the budget as a pharmacist or drug dealer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , could be elected people with 10,000 votes, leaving out maybe people with 50,000 votes. Then there are the special provisions on Trentino-Alto Adige Südtirol, which violate the principle of equality, attributing the totality of the seats with a single-name system because the only vote in the multi-nominational college is equivalent to a majority vote. This is true in a Province where 70% of the population is German-speaking, so it will be possible for German-speaking citizens to vote for a single party. Other than protecting minorities. I would also like to focus on the legislative delegation; the government is given the wide, wide-ranging possibility of defining colleges. This means that they will make the accordion, tighten, widen, sew the colleges to determine exactly the election of their nominations, making sure that the people who tomorrow will be ready to raise their hands with a wand are voted in Parliament. In this operation they will use a committee of experts appointed by the government, and therefore not neutral, as we have seen in the past. The national thresholds in the Senate conflict with Article 57 of the Constitution, which refers to the regional base. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you are willing, even if you were re-elected, to return to these classrooms in the puppet dress sewn on, whether you deserve it or not. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm afraid I know the answer. We have seen it in five years; every time we have asked for a whisper of conscience, we have done so in vain. We saw it in the Commission with the surreal debate in total vacuum, so much so that we told the President that we were leaving because there was no listening, there was no decency at all, but only the void. We have seen it with the amendments rejected regardless, with the government proclaiming itself neutral and then putting confidence. We then asked the Head of State to exercise a moral suasion, even before his power to refer him back to the Houses. Today, in fact, a shame can be avoided: we are responsible for stopping or perpetrating the humiliation of citizens, who have already three times been humiliated and led to vote with the Porcellum, who have been humiliated by the umpteenth prank law - the Italicum - valid only for one House, and by the reform of a third of the Constitution, carried out by majority shots, with leghold traps and blows of hand. They rightly punished you! Have you learned anything? Usque tandem? Citizens have been humiliated by your transformation, with 550 changes in the shirt in four and a half years: one every three days. And now you still humiliate the Italians with the umpteenth law that will bring a Parliament of nominations, chaos and ungovernability. In fact, it is already certain, in the simulations that have not been made to the Chamber of Deputies, that the text of the law to our examination will not bring a majority of government: it is scientifically built to prevent it. Therefore, because the Zanda group leader does not stand up and does not say that the agreement, reached with Berlusconi, Alfano and Salvini (and let's put Verdini into it), has served, because that is what we want: an even more servo Parliament! When the Constitutional Court, like the Porcellum and Italicum, tells us what we already know, you'll say, "Oh, my God! - you didn't expect it and you will continue to rule for another five years with these majorities rigged. Be honest in saying this or have the honesty to say that the bill under consideration is unconstitutional and voted in favour of our question. We do not look at you, but millions of citizens look at you: you cannot get away with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unlike the exercise of your conscience, on the electronic board, in correspondence with your votes, lighthouses will appear, which will indicate to the Italians for those who will never have to vote again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u13	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question referred to us today, which we like other groups, is perhaps the only occasion for this House to be able to say its own and, above all, Mr President, to ensure that we do not run the risk of suffering the shame - because this will be the case - of being declared unconstitutional for the third time an electoral law. What has happened in our country, that is, the declaration of unconstitutionality of the Porcellum, for a large part, with the sentence n. 1 of 2014 of the Constitutional Court, and what happened then about Italicum should have pushed to prudence the majorities, old and new, that have found themselves to converge on this text and that have already voted in the Chamber of Deputies, in order to safeguard not the honor, but the good performance and the future of the democratic institutions. Mr President, if we are faced for the third time with a declaration of unconstitutionality on electoral law, what will become of democratic institutions - I ask all my colleagues - and what will become of the remaining confidence of the citizens in Parliament and democratic institutions? We would find ourselves once again - because unfortunately this will happen - with another Parliament elected by an unconstitutional law, because the Court would perhaps decide after the election of the elected Parliament by the law under consideration. Mr President, you know perfectly well that in this parliamentary term the political legitimacy profiles have been raised several times, even though the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 1 of 2014, had already given indications. In the conscience of the citizens, in public opinion understood, however, in a broad sense, this has represented, throughout this unfortunate XVII legislature, a deep vulnus. This should therefore have led, as a matter of fact, to caution in drawing up an electoral law that was protected from criticism and thus fully complied with the two judgments of the Constitutional Court. Today, however, we are once again faced with a text whose constitutional profiles are absolutely doubtful and, for our part, - as is clear also from what we have heard during the hearings by authoritative constitutionalists - numerous. That is why the debate on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling cannot be seen simply as an annoyance, as many Members have warned, but as an opportunity to ensure that Parliament can exercise a kind of self-control of constitutionality (as the Italian law does not allow Members, like the French one, to address directly to the Constitutional Court) at the very time when the issue is being discussed. Coming to the profiles of unconstitutionality, which for us are very clear, I would like to show first of all to all those who may not have noticed it, as is the new ballot that the elector will find in front (shows a specimen card). According to the classification of electoral systems, what we are going to deal with is defined as a mixed system, i.e. partly a majority system and partly a proportional one. The problem, which is obvious and evident in observing the ballot box, is that the voter has only one vote, and with this vote, as it is divided, he finds himself choosing the candidate of the one-name college elected by the majority system or a list of party or political movement in multi-named college, whose candidates will be elected by proportional method. The voter can either opt for a candidate in the single college, and then automatically vote for all the lists linked to it, or he will indicate one, then a single college and at the same time also a list; by voting the single college (and related lists) there will immediately be an automatic shift of the voter's will from a certain single college candidate to lists not voted by the voter himself, but in proportion to the votes attributed. If, in fact, an electorate, with its own vote, indicates only the single college and not the list, the votes will be allocated in proportion, according to the vote given by other voters and not according to its will. Not only that, but in this way an elector votes a single college and perhaps produces an effect that is not what he wants or does not know directly. Your vote, in any case, is influenced by the vote of other voters, in absolute contrast, Mr President, with Article 48 of the Constitution, which clearly states that the vote must be free, personal and direct. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]] Someone, however, like Senator Migliavacca, in the Commission, has rightly spoken of a trawl vote, such as fishing, but you know, Mr President, as a Sicilian - and you Sicilians of fishing you know - that trawling has done a lot of damage to our marine ecosystem and I have the impression that such a vote will cause a great deal of damage to our political ecosystem. We - I repeat - vote on the bottom line: a voter will vote on a list but, on the bottomline, vote on everything else. I made an example, because that is what will happen and because it is already announced. Mrs Brambilla, who is an exponent of Forza Italia, announced the presentation - I believe she has already presented it - in the centerright of an animalist list. I see here Senator Amati who, like me, is very sensitive about these issues. Let us take the example of an elector who will vote on this list, which is for the rights and welfare of animals and for the harmony of creation. But if the Brambilla list does not exceed 3% and therefore will not produce direct effects, but it will exceed one percent, with that result it will not have directly elected ones, but that vote will be distributed to all the other linked lists, and this could even result in the heterogenesis of the ends, i.e. help elect those who might want to extend the hunting even in the parks. You tell me if this is not in conflict with Article 48 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] , M5S and Senator Bignami). Not only will the voter not be able to direct his vote well, but he will even see his vote used to get elected people who think the opposite and who may have fought for their whole life. Moreover, this vote - always returning to the single vote - what will it produce? If the voter votes for the single college and the candidate in the single college is elected, that vote will also have an effect on the proportional system. In the Mattarellum for the election to the House there was the system of detachment, in the sense that a vote cannot be counted twice. Instead, if the candidate in the college is not elected, the vote of the voter expressed for that candidate will not be valid because it will not produce the same effects. Mr President, this is a clear and precise violation of Articles 3 and 48 of our Constitution. Then we come to another aspect that is always flagged. I would like to point out to you another aspect of unconstitutionality, which I think is absolutely obvious, compared to Article 51 of the Constitution. Well, with the multi-candidate mechanism, you will see that the parties will have an interest in running women as headmaster, producing with the system of alternation a very clear effect: for every five women elected will result in the automatic election of five men. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Cats and Morra]] And all this is smuggled as an alternation and as a principle of representation, when it is only another perverse effect and in total contrast with Article 51 of our Constitution. Back to the mixed system, why did I mention the Mattarellum? The mixed system can be produced, but it must be produced, for example, with the split vote to avoid inequality of the vote and to ensure that the vote can be free. So I can vote for a certain candidate in the college because that person convinces me, but maybe I want to vote freely for another list. But this will not be possible, either on the same card or on separate cards. As you can see, there is no separation and the vote is unique. And don't think we stress all this because we have to say it. These are very clear profiles of unconstitutionality. Then what else did they do? There's been some controversy about the stranded leader, but now what do we find, always going back to the polling card copy? In fact, the leader returns, because he is masked as a candidate in the uninomial college, and then in cluster he has all the other candidates on the other lists. Not short and short lists for the knowledge of candidates, as the Constitutional Court's decision No. 1 required! Here we find instead the leader blocked with, in cluster, all the other candidates. Moreover, with the mechanism of the national college, an elector who thinks of voting someone who knows who ends up electing! Do you think he'll have a conscience? Do you think that that vote will be direct and that it will produce the effect that the voter knows? Absolutely not, because you do not know that vote which elected will produce, in which region or constituency. This is the other absurd mechanism we are facing. Then we arrive at the final gem on Trentino-Alto Adige. Is there no violation of Article 3 of the Constitution here? Ad hoc rules are made not to protect linguistic minorities, but to create a reserve for a single party. This is what is written in this text. They are said to want to protect the German minority, but that minority too will be plural; they are not voted upon to elect just one party! However, the mechanism is designed and oriented to produce only that effect. Shouldn't other minorities be entitled? Should not the Ladin minority or minorities in Friuli-Venezia Giulia have a mechanism that protects them? Compared to Italicum, the structure of the colleges, the number, the proportion between the nominal college and the plurinomial college and that elected proportionally are also changed. Mr President, there are a lot of things to do and I come to another fact. We are in the debate on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, but the facts have already taken place: has the House followed the ordinary procedure to approve the electoral law? Absolutely not. The reserve of assembly, provided for in Article 72 of the Constitution, what happened to it? Yesterday in the first Commission, as soon as we began to explain the first amendment, the Government - which then said it had nothing to do with it - had already declared it outside, inventing an exorbitant number of secret votes, which was already preparing for the vote of confidence. Is this the ordinary procedure that our Constitution demands to follow in order to approve the electoral law? That is why the 2003 Code of Conduct of the Council of Europe, which provides that electoral laws should not be made in the last year before the elections, is violated in flagrant terms. Moreover - I repeat - the reserve for this House is being disregarded. Mr President, once again we are faced with a horrible affair not only from the constitutional point of view, but political, in contempt of the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the will of the citizens who spoke against an Italicum on 4 December - that is why it fell - against the privilege of man only to the power of the leader of the party, in violation also of this Constitution. The citizens, with that avalanche of no, expected that finally the political class and parliamentarians would finally return to the Constitution. Once we were talking about going back to the statute to go back to the Constitution! Instead, once again, you are putting our Constitution under your feet. However, do not think that our citizens will forget this. You will see already on November 5 - I tell those who are involved in the Sicilian elections and who have been the creators of this umpteenth slap in the Constitution - what the costs you will pay. Then there's a curse on electoral laws. The curse is that all those who do it then thinking of making a profit directly from it, are those who with the application of that law forgive. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] This curse will come true once more! [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u15	He asked Senator Fornaro to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u16	Mr President, we will have the opportunity to discuss all the problems contained in this draft law in general. In the question referred for a preliminary ruling, Mr QP3, we stress an absolutely essential aspect which is linked to the barrier thresholds. We find ourselves - as Mr De Petris has already said - in a mixed system. The electoral systems, or rather, electoral formulas have always been divided into two large families: the family of majority formulas and that of proportional formulas. It is true that since the nineties of the last century all the innovations in the matter of electoral laws in the world have been aimed at overcoming the original models, only majority or only proportional, in order to create the families of mixed systems that relate to the clarity in the exercise of the vote by the elector and, in particular, the possibility for the same to vote in one way in the proportional part and in another, if it is considered appropriate, in the majority part. Here we come to the issue of barrier thresholds and a first distortion of this principle. The barrier thresholds - I recall, having read it from several quarters - are not a majoritarian corrective, but a corrective to the proportional system in order to achieve the objective of reducing party fragmentation and, therefore, of parliamentary groups. The aim of proportional systems is to photograph the prevailing opinion of the electoral body and return a photograph as close as possible to the reality that is outside Parliament's classrooms. The action to reduce fragmentation takes place with the barrier threshold: the higher the barrier threshold, the greater the reduction in political supply and therefore in the number of parties. Therefore, a 3% barrier threshold, which is the one proposed by the bill at our examination, can be considered a natural, physiological threshold. When it was discussed in the House of the so-called German-like, we were available - I say this here, so as not to create misunderstandings - even at a higher barrier threshold, such as that of the German model, i.e. 5%: this was an incentive to reduce political supply and to meet the need to keep political forces together. The draft law contains a first contradiction - then I come to the point of the preliminary ruling - because the one that leads out of the door through the barrier threshold of 3%, that is, fragmentation or in any case a contribution to reducing fragmentation, makes it immediately fall back from the window through the invention - I emphasize this term - of a barrier threshold to one percent. It is expected that the votes obtained from the lists forming part of a coalition, even if they do not reach 3%, will contribute to the definition of the electoral figure of the coalition and, therefore, to the allocation of seats. In essence, this intervention and this barrier threshold achieve two objectives that are the basic objectives of this law: the falsification and manipulation of the vote. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups and Senator Bignami]] It is a forgery and a semantic scam against the elector who starts just from the coalitions that recall the Mattarellum system, but in the Mattarellum the coalitions had the coalition symbol: the card to the Chamber with the coalition symbol and the card to the Senate with the coalition symbol. In this case we will have coalitions without coalitions, without symbol, without common program and without designated leader. They are more similar - and I steal an image used by my colleague Mr Migliavacca in the Commission - to attached lists than to coalition lists. Well, despite the destructured character of the coalitions, the votes obtained from the lists from one percent to 3% are used, thus achieving a real manipulation of the vote. I attract the voter with so-called vote-catching lists and then use those votes to the benefit of the coalition's major parties. It is not unconstitutional to present a list that, as happened for the Democratic Center that was in coalition with us, gets 0.49 percent of the votes. Those votes were then used for the majority prize, but the voters of the Democratic Centre have their representation in Parliament (i.e. the six elected MPs of the Democratic Centre sitting in the Montecitorio Chamber). In this case, instead, we use these lists and the questions that arise spontaneously are the following: but why do they do it? Why do these lists appear? Who will be the beneficiaries? It is evident, at this point, the risk of further distorting the prize with a safe place for promoters of these lists in a single or plurinomial college, thus blowing the idea of the representative of the territory, inherent in the single system. These distortions and manipulations seem absolutely obvious to me and lead, therefore, to consider unconstitutional the norm under consideration, which - I repeat - allows to count, for the purposes of calculating the total electoral figure of the coalitions, also the lists that obtain between the one and the 3% of the votes. This provision is essentially contrary to Article 48 of the Constitution, under which the vote is personal and equal, free and secret. From this point of view, forgery and manipulation are a distortion that leads us to ask the Assembly not to proceed with the examination of Act No 2941. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed, and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u17	He asked Senator Lo Moro to intervene in order to illustrate the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u18	Mr President, for the second time we are dealing with a draft electoral law. On the first occasion, in disagreement with what was then my group, I opposed how I could - as we opposed - to the so-called premissive amendments, which unnecessarily wrote a sad page of this legislature. I say unnecessarily because the electoral law was later declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Today I am even presenting a question of reference from a position that certainly makes me less embarrassed, because I am no longer part of the majority and, therefore, I have the attitude of those who feel they have to bear witness to an opinion and a point of view - I hope they will also be something more - strongly felt and rooted in the rules that I will quote. My assessment will be as serene as possible of some of the rules contained in the draft law, which risks being the third electoral law under the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court. I think it will be the third electoral law that will be declared unconstitutional, with reference to absolutely strategic points and not any. The measure under consideration presents small profiles of unconstitutionality that can be reflected on the system, but I will devote myself to some aspects of fundamental unconstitutionality. In the hearings we have acquired elements, which I believe are everyone's assets. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. However, the hearings have certainly produced another effect, that of making available comments that enrich our speeches. The first element that emerged is that a law in general, but above all an electoral law, must comply with constitutional principles as a whole and, therefore, before the individual rules, the electoral system should be evaluated. This is also a defect in the control system, which is denounced on the most part. Normally, the Constitutional Court takes a decision on matters that are subject to specific conditions, but in reality, it is the system that must comply with constitutional rules and principles. Another point that emerged is that the actual effects, with the electoral results, have an impact on the overall assessment of the reasonableness of a system. And here we have a majority system, but above all, to a large extent, a proportional system; our bet and our assessment is that it could not guarantee neither the representativeness, nor the stability of the government, with a sacrifice of the other legal assets that are restricted, which will not be responsive to the need or the opportunity to contest representativeness and governability. With regard to the same procedures used for approval, in particular the imposition of confidence in a strictly parliamentary matter - I say this before the Minister of Relations with Parliament, whom I greet, and I am particularly sorry to say so - it is not only a question of conflicting with the last paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitutional Law, because even at the hearing the fact that the procedure with confidence is a special procedure has emerged as a peaceful one. Beyond that, what seems to me most important at this time, politically and not only, is that this is a resounding denial of the programmatic statements on which the government in office has gained confidence in the two branches of Parliament. Today we find ourselves in a behavior that runs counter to the programmatic statements, without there being any government crisis and no significant change. President Gentiloni Silveri has said things in this House, which he is now complaining about with his behavior. Many critical issues have emerged in the parliamentary debate. For example, the allocation of seats to some regions has been discussed regardless of the number of inhabitants; the derogations introduced for Trentino-Alto Adige to ensure a linguistic minority, with a system that provides completely different criteria for the allocation of seats. There is a mixed system that is more majority and less proportional, in fact it is basically all majority. Another aspect has just been explained by my colleague from the Fornaro Group. In my brief illustration, I will refer to a specific principle and point, that is to say some articles of the draft law (which are reported in the text of the preliminary question for ease of reading), which contain distortions which, in my opinion and in our opinion, make the system unconstitutional. The first observation I make (the least serious, but we must start from this) is that the citizen is not given any opportunity to express himself for the single candidate. The citizen who does not want to vote on a list has no chance; the citizen who is attracted by the name who is reported as a candidate for the single-member college and who only wants to vote on that candidate has no chance because, with an automatism present in the bill, his vote will also be moved on the list vote. So the citizen who does not want to vote on the list can either give up the candidate who would have voted or abstained from voting; and that is in itself a matter of some seriousness. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] However, what seems to me to be unacceptable undermining legal assets, i.e. that it contains an unacceptable distortion of the individual's vote, is the system for allocating votes in the case of several linked lists. The mechanism is that I take the sign on the candidate for the unitary and my vote is dragged on the proportional list, so on the multi-nomial college. What's my vote worth? Who determines the weight of my vote? Is it attributed to anyone in particular? The weight of my vote is determined by the vote given by the other voters in the same college. So the weight of the individual citizen's vote, which the Constitution wants direct, equal, free and personal, will depend on how things go in the college, on who in the college will vote in one way or another. So the personality of the vote is irreparablely compromised. Then there is another element that further aggravates this situation. I deliberately referred to two articles in the question referred for a preliminary ruling and not to be annoying or pedantic. In two paragraphs of Article 1, at the point where we talk about the indication that must contain the card, the warnings for direct use to the citizen, we talk to the citizen and we feel that his vote will be divided between the linked lists. The circumstance is always the same: the citizen votes to the unitary and not to the proportional. So, we're talking about your vote. Elsewhere the law, which speaks of the distribution of votes, speaks in the plural: it speaks of votes to be shared. We are in the same article 1, but the same circumstance occurs in the Senate. This dichotomy seems justified by the fact that in one place we talk to the citizen and in the other place, instead, we talk about the distribution of votes. And this terminological difference also determines a possible different interpretation. What's going on? The vote of the citizen shall be distributed on the lists. So, by fractions of vote. If the vote is divided, it means that the citizen votes for one piece, one piece and one piece, depending on the number of lists, and his vote is split to his lists. The citizen, that is, contributes with his vote to the success of the various lists, because the votes weigh and apply for the purposes of the electoral result. The citizen votes, for fractions, completely different electoral lists, with completely different leaders and with a completely different political program. I remember - and in a pedantic and annoying way we also wanted to write it in the preliminary question - that it is not the coalitions but the parties that deposit the electoral program and indicate their leader. Compared to a rule that was not even a great need, we have tabled timely amendments to eliminate confusion. We do not understand, in fact, why a party leader, since there is no provision for a party, becomes leader of a coalition. The first element of reflection is that the vote, to the singular, of the citizen, according to the warning that it contains his ballot, is split into several lists and, therefore, he votes simultaneously lists with completely different programs and political leaders. If this interpretation seems imaginative, despite the tenor of the law, and if it means that the votes are put in a cauldron and then are distributed together, then a system is created in which the vote of the citizen will go to one of the lists anonymously: tot, tot, tot. My vote will go to one of the linked lists and, in this case, the system of allocation to the linked list is by no means a method recognizable by the citizen before the vote. The citizen therefore does not know, before and during the vote, who can be assigned his vote, and this also affects the freedom and personality of the vote itself. I should like to conclude with another element which those who have written these rules have taken particular account of. We want to give a possible response, from the point of view of those who wrote and voted on these rules, to the judgments of the Constitutional Court, No. 1 of 2014 and No. 35 of 2017, which both reaffirm the principle of recognizability. Indeed, perhaps in a clearer way No. 35 of 2017 explains and comments on the content of No. 1 of 2014. The lists are short and therefore do not contain the number of persons to be elected. Should six be elected in a region? The lists contain a maximum of four and then there is a different mechanism for the allocation of the two additional seats. All this happens because you want blocked lists. It's a straight choice. The lists must be composed of a maximum of four names because it is decided that, in this way, recognizability is guaranteed. But this is the only way of replying to the judgments of the Court because, for the reasons I have already set out and which I refer to only (because I am convinced that those who listen to me have memorized them), when we then go to the distribution and the lists and we will have before us, possibly not one, but two, three or four lists, to which we will distribute the vote or the votes, it will happen that the citizen will find himself in front of not a short list, but more lists. Someone at the audition said "liston." Certainly you will have a number of candidates, regardless of the lists, which does not guarantee any recognition. The choice made by the majority of government and by those who wanted this law, then, to circumvent obstacles with short lists, instead of learning and being consequent to the judgments of the Court, becomes useless, because the lists are falsely short, being indicated in the coalitions a really huge number of candidates that will deny the apparent recognizability list by list of candidates. For all these reasons, as well as for the reasons put forward by my previous colleague on another point, we are convinced that we are before a law that should not be passed, because we cannot continue to challenge fate. The legislature is about to expire and an electoral law is needed. But when it is declared unconstitutional, there will be another Premier, another Minister for relations with Parliament and another Parliament. Therefore, to continue on this path seems to me to be a way of proceeding not by constituents, which does not even follow the rules of good politics that have led me to sit in these benches. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u19	He asked Senator Crimes to intervene to illustrate the suspensive issue QS1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, following our work, the President said that the work in the Commission was carried out in a legitimate manner, in accordance with Parliament's prerogatives, from 17 to 23 October. And I repeat: from 17 to 23 October. In virtually six days the proper parliamentary procedure for an electoral law would have been respected, not to set up the Gift Day or any day or any of the many far-fetched laws that have been enacted by this Parliament. You have cleared in six days the electoral law, the mother of all laws, the one that determines the representatives of the people. Faster than this, there was only the iter of the so-called Boccaduters, with which you guaranteed the electoral refunds. That - I remember well - was even faster. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The words of the rapporteur, Mr Torrisi, inspired me. He said a sentence that I consider emblematic and should make everyone reflect: this electoral law serves to secure the system. I repeat: it serves to secure the system. Your only goal is to secure you, save your armchairs. You are afraid of an anti-system political force like the one that arrived here in 2013 and has made your armchairs tremble, perhaps, on more than one occasion, since today you must run to the shelters and, to secure the system, launch an electoral law scam, a liberticidal law, a law created exclusively to put in trouble the 5 Star Movement. That's what you did. You studied this table bill on the basis of surveys, based on possible results by looking at surveys, as you had done with Italicum. Too bad the polls changed. You thought you were gonna take us down, and instead, with that law, we could win and win, and then let's change it, because it's not okay, not even corrected by the Court. Let's change it in such a way that we do everything we can to secure the system. These are the keywords. This is your only goal. You are afraid - and now I am addressing the Government - and so put your trust, as you have done in the House, on electoral law, something that has never been done before. And when it was done, in 1953 - I remind the President - the President of the Senate then resigned. When the government put its trust in the 1953 con electoral law, the President of the Senate resigned and with him other members of the Bureau. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now, instead, the Boldrini and today, perhaps (we hope not: we still have some hope), the President of the Senate are complicit in this choice. It is a measure that the House, when the work on the Tedeschellum began, fell on the first amendment by secret vote; on the first amendment by secret vote the first draft electoral law fell. Why an amendment? First of all, because there is a secret vote. You're afraid of the secret vow, and that's why you put your trust. They talked about ambush. The government said to fear ambush. Do you understand? Democracy is an ambush for this government. AIROLA (M5S). They call it democracy! CRIMI (M5S). You did so on Trentino-Alto Adige, with a rule that provided for the extension to this region of the same electoral rules provided throughout the country. What's more natural than a prediction of this kind? Why is Trentino-Alto Adige different? Why is there a specific reserve of electoral law in Trentino-Alto Adige? It is used to guarantee linguistic minorities and is more than legitimate. And we are going through a measure on linguistic minorities these days. What is included in the draft law under consideration? Let's try to make clear the meaning of the suspensive that we have presented: six unnamed colleges in Trentino-Alto Adige for the Senate and a multi-named college. That's seven in total. How many senators do you elect? Pretty much seven. Do you know how many candidates the proportional college provides for? One. Well, can you explain to me what a multi-name college is if there is only one candidate? You have six single-member colleges and an overall single-member college of the entire Region. Of course this is ridiculous, and what will this mechanism mean? Trentino-Alto Adige will have the en plein: seven out of seven. Therefore, it is a reserve not for linguistic minorities, but for a single party, the party that sits in those benches and that has guaranteed to be the crutch of this Government as well as of the previous ones: whether they are right, left, centre-right or center-left, they are always ready to make the crutch to anyone as long as they release for Trentino-Alto Adige ad hoc norms or resources. To these we make the en plein: seven seats, seven names, seven seats. And this is just an example of what will happen with the electoral law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a law specifically designed to know the names and surnames of those who will sit in Parliament. This electoral law is not designed to know who will rule, who will win. It is not true that on the evening of the election we will know who won, as well as, according to so many who have filled their mouths, should be the objective of electoral laws. We'll know a day before, even a month before. We will know names and surnames in alphabetical order of the members of Parliament, because they will be written at the table. All those who have been candidates will be directly elected; names and surnames written at the table a month before. It reminds me so much of the far-fetched elections of the Province: there you have acted on the active electorate, here you act on the passive electorate; in that case, with the vote of the individual advisors you know first what they will vote; in this case, limit the number of nominations - yes - because voters cannot vote anything. Voters cannot place preference, but they can choose not the candidate, but only a party that will decide the names and surnames of those who will sit in the seats. It's not a magic ride. We're gonna have a big magic quadrana of all Renzi's and Berlusconi's friends who are gonna sit in Parliament, and Salvini's. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). What a lovely farm! CRIMI (M5S). You want blind voters, who just have to shut up and mute. That's why we're gonna show tomorrow with a blindfold in front of the Senate to say no to an electoral law that takes blind people. Stop while you're in time. Avoid yet another bad figure in this Parliament. You've got the last two unconstitutional electoral laws and you've got a third one. With what courage? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At least have the decency to say that you are not capable of making an electoral law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You must have the decency, because you have two out of two wrongs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Two for two! And you're the same people who were there back then when you voted for Porcellum. Turn and turn, you're always the same. So avoid us the umpteenth figure and report, as we ask, the vote in the Commission, with a debate that allows us to clearly address all the elements of the unconstitutionality of the electoral law when we examine it. With this suspension we have asked to return to the Commission and not to break down the electoral law. I am also addressing those who are about to vote. It is not a question of a preliminary ruling. He doesn't expect a minute after the vote that the law dies. The suspensive issue requires that we return to the Commission to address, in particular, all elements of inconstitutionality, particularly with regard to linguistic minorities. That is what we are asking: to return to this House when everything is clarified. We gave it as a deadline on 15 March 2018, because the Rules of Procedure provide for the need for a deadline. We ask that you give all the time to the Senate, which still exists. And if it still exists, one must remember that it can modify the laws that come from the House. And this must happen not only when the provision on vitality arrives, on which the Democratic Party has tabled 49 amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : a law that wants to sink, voted to the Chamber and arrived here, buried. There's no problem with that. It has been said that the Senate exists and must guarantee its dignity in order to make better laws than those that come out of the House. Well, if you have such dignity, because the electoral law sucks and is unconstitutional, stop it now because it is the only opportunity to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u21	We greet students, students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Amedeo Moscati" of Pontecagnano Faiano, in the province of Salerno, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u22	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u25	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I believe that a debate on the questions of pre-constitutionalism and constitutionality should be as technical as possible as well as political. On the other hand, I have listened to a series of political obstacles to those who support this law, according to which we would be puppets and we would like blind voters. I wonder then how the voters of the 5 Star Movement who voted in the municipal elections in Genoa are definable, who have seen the outcome of the consultations overturned by the will of the leader, Beppe Grillo. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Cociancich.]] [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] But what are we talking about, colleagues? I wonder if the only electoral law that would be good for the Five Star Movement is the one that expects Grillo to make the electoral lists. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] [[Applause from Senators Milo and Rizzotti.]] What are we talking about? CATALFO (M5S). Talk about the electoral law and not the 5 Star Movement! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Mazzoni speak. MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). The Rosatellum is certainly an imperfect electoral law, because there are no perfect electoral laws, but certainly not unconstitutional. And I'm trying to explain why. As a first point, can electoral laws be passed with a vote of confidence? With confidence the so-called scam law was already passed in 1953, but the question was put to the Consulta for the case of Italicum, approved by the Chamber with this same instrument in May 2015. Well, in judgment 35 of this year, the Constitutional Court ruled that the remarks raised on this point were inadmissible because they were manifestly unfounded. The second point concerns blocked lists. In 2014 the Constitutional Court sanctioned the long and blocked lists of the Porcellum because it is not suitable to promote the knowledge of candidates by voters and such as to make the discipline - I quote - not comparable neither with other systems characterized by lists blocked only for one part of the seats nor with others characterized by electoral districts of territorially small size, in which the number of candidates to be elected is so small as to guarantee the effective knowledge of the same and with it the effectiveness of the choice and the freedom of the vote. The Rosatellum provides that the lists have at most four candidates: it is a small number and therefore, in my opinion, compatible with the constitutional parameters. The third point concerns multi-candidate applications. In Porcellum a single could be nominated in each constituency; with Italicum multiple applications were reduced by a maximum of ten. Precisely by analysing the problems of the unconstitutionality of Italicum, the Consulta declared them eligible. On the other hand, the possibility for the elected MEP to choose freely for the preferred college has been set aside. In this regard, the Rosatellum provides for an automatic mechanism: the plurinomial college of election will be the one in which the list to which the candidate is linked received less votes. The fourth point concerns the indication of the head of political force, that is, the famous "man only in command." Like the Porcellum and Italicum, the Rosatellum provides that each list indicates in its electoral program the name of the leader. The Constitutional Court has never been asked about the matter, but it is the law itself that says that, despite this indication, the prerogatives of the President of the Republic will remain firm with regard to the appointment of the President of the Council. Therefore, this is a purely political indication, which cannot have any constitutional significance. The fifth point concerns the pro-quota distribution of votes cast in favour of candidates only in single-member colleges. The mode of voting "prefered" by the new law is the expression of one's will through a marked sign on the symbol of the chosen party. However, it is also permissible to vote in favour of the only candidate in the single-member college. In the latter case, all votes cast in this way will be distributed pro rata (based on the electoral force) among the parties supporting the candidate in the single-member college. It is not the first case of pro-quota distribution of votes in the history of Italian electoral laws: always pro-quota took place in fact the division of Mattarellum and no one has ever had anything to do with the law that bears the name of the current President of the Republic. In the debate in the first Commission those who oppose this law denounced the alleged inconstitutionality of the Rosatellum for the lack of the so-called split vote. However, it seems to me to be an unsustainable position. In particular, some constitutionalists have argued that it violates the constitutional principle of free voting on the basis of which, if the voter only breaks down the name of the candidate in the single college, his vote is distributed, along with the others similar to his, on the parties of the coalition who support him in the proportional part. Hence the request, precisely, for the possibility of voting apart, namely the possibility of voting a party of another coalition, or at least a double vote, i.e. the possibility of voting the candidate of the college without the choice turning to the related parties. Here it is necessary to be very clear: the term "disjoined vote" up to here has always been used - appropriately - for the faculty of the elector to vote a candidate mayor (or President of the Region) and a list not linked to such candidate. But it is one thing to elect a mayor or a president of the Region; it is another thing to elect candidates for the composition of a Chamber, without, however, that the single vote can produce any majority. Allowing a schizophrenic vote for the two chambers would favour ungovernability. Thus, the single vote is fully in line with the logic of a law that leads to the formation of coalitions, through which the parties decide to participate in the elections. The split vote would then violate the prerogative of Article 49 of the Constitution on parties and would be at the expense of governance. The connection between the single vote and the list, therefore, does not harm the freedom of vote at all. Since they are candidates for the same Parliamentary Assembly, even on two different "binaries," the legislator can legitimately work both in linking votes and in making them partially or totally independent. The split vote, in short, is not a constitutionally obligatory choice. In reality the Rosatellum distinguishes the two votes and is limited to prohibiting the inconsistent vote and - as I have already mentioned - forms of connection, through appearances and divisions, were already present in the Mattarellum. The final point of my speech concerns the single-member colleges. They are constitutional by express statement of the Court that, in judgment No. 1 of 2014, it carried the colleges as a virtuous example to ensure the direct relationship between the elected and the elected. For all these reasons, our Group will vote against the constitutional prejudices. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u28	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary term is a continuous reserve of surprises. We thought naively that the lesson of December 4, less than a year ago, had served something and nothing, we are the usual. It is very complicated for this majority to think of complying for once with the Constitution and to make an electoral law starting from what the Consultative Council established in the judgment of January 2014, by which this Parliament was declared illegitimate. We are faced with yet another unconstitutional law, a coercion to repeat. It is unconstitutional because it violates the right to see its own manifestation of will respected, and the vote is distorted. I would like to remind you that Article 48 of the Constitution says: The vote is personal and equal, free and secret. Its exercise is a civic duty. I would like to start with civic duty. In recent years in our country the distance between citizens and institutions, between citizens and politics has grown so much that the sense of belonging that made everyone feel part of the State has failed. There are many reasons for this and among them there are certainly the fact that we have set aside the collective interest for the protection and pursuit of only partisan interests; that we have helped to increase inequalities with wrong policies, pursuing austerity and unbridled liberalism; that we have helped to make politics feel that we cannot represent and take care of our citizens, but only as a caste that defends its privileges. And the citizens have stopped voting, because they have no longer felt themselves represented; they have stopped exercising that civic duty so enshrined in the Constitution because for too many years, even thanks to clearly unconstitutional electoral laws, the will of the voters has no longer been respected and the vote has not been allowed to be carried out in a free, equal and serene way. The transition from the First to the Second Republic brought electoral laws for which the vote of many citizens was ignored. Having abandoned the proportional system with the introduction of barrier thresholds and majority prizes in the name of governability meant to distort the vote and the value of the vote; it meant to violate the principle of equality of the vote that so well recounts Article 48 of the Constitution. And also the Rosatellum continues in that direction, starting from the fact that with a single vote, as has been widely explained, with a single ballot you vote for the uninomial college and for the proportional list. So the vote of those who elect the candidate in the single-member college will be worth twice that of those who can hope to put their vote at least on the blocked proportional list. To deny the split vote, to deny therefore to be able to express two different votes, to deny the so-called split, that is those correctives that were introduced into the Mattarellum precisely in order to respect the equality of the vote means that we are clearly faced with a theft of constitutional legitimacy and a denial of equality. I could decide to vote for the candidate in the union I know or have known in the election campaign - and that would save the added value of choosing a single college, which is also useful in rebuilding that relationship between citizens and voters - and I could then decide to vote in proportion to the party in whose program I recognize myself. Here the voter chooses only the party and then the candidates chosen by the parties. No freedom of choice, no freedom of vote, no equality. We are faced with yet another compression of democracy, without any respect for the will of the vote, with the addition that all this happens a few months after the Italians, with the vote of 4 December, have rejected an anti-democratic and unconstitutional reform. But evidently that project, characterized by the centralization of powers in the hands of a single figure, of the ideology of man only at the command, which was the imprint of the reformist spirit of this Government, was not abandoned, despite the bad performances of this legislature from good school to jobs act. This electoral law, moreover, abandons some battle horses and it would be interesting to understand why. For years you have said that governability could only be guaranteed by electoral laws that should have made known, at the immediate closure of the ballot boxes and seats, who was the winner, the evening itself or the morning after. And, in order to achieve this, useful laws would have been necessary to assign seats with clear majorities; laws with majority prizes and barrier thresholds to double the value of the single vote; an oversize of the vote and, once again, a theft of the vote. Suddenly with the Rosatellum the primary need for governability has disappeared. No one speaks of it anymore, because this law, as it is thought, pretending to benefit the coalitions and favoring the fake coalitions, will have as its sole objective a punitive system for those who do not bend to the policies of inciucius and hyperliberals; it will inexplicably deliver seats to the right, especially to the North, and will deliver a picture out of the ballot box very, very fragmented, to the point that it will take days before it will be understood who will have won and how and what majorities will rule. It is clear that the PD and its secretary think of a "Governissimo," perhaps with Forza Italia, but you have not taken into account that the political and social framework of our country has profoundly changed. This law will greatly strengthen the center-right, with the risk of giving them the government of the country; or we will have a real center-right government, where, however, you of the PD will be the center hostage of the right. And, as in recent years you have cleared and implemented the worst policies of the right, starting from the so-called Minnites decrees, it will no longer work even to shake the great coalition, the front of the left against the advance of the right or the barbarians. It doesn't work anymore, because people are disappointed and distrusted. This time it will not be enough to stand up against, but it will be essential to tell what idea of government you have; how to build a real alternative to neoliberal policies that have impoverished especially the middle classes and increased inequalities; how to give job certainty; how to guarantee health and free public education. When the left does too much the right, high is the risk of being considered all equal. Then it is preferable to choose the original. With the total breakdown of our political framework, we would like to warn everyone that the vote also changes in the unitary. We are no longer in 1994, when two sides faced each other; this time there will be at least four. So, the game's all open. There will no longer be guaranteed seats, because you are sailing in the open sea, and that applies to everyone, to the point that this law could turn out to be a boomerang. Maybe you didn't think this through. In times of anti-politics, the candidates of the uninomial colleges with an electoral campaign very closely linked to the territory and very recognizable, could involve the voters and make the choice of the single candidate prevail over that of the party. And since you do not want to predict the split vote, the picture could change and reserve strong surprises, especially to you of the Democratic Party. On September 14, 2005, in order to avoid the approval of that electoral law that even those who claim it fatherhood defined a scumbag, Luciano Violante, on behalf of the then center-left, cited representatives of center-right who asked the center-left not to vote reforms by majority blows. I quote what is written on parliamentary acts: It would violate a principle of a real Constitution by which the rules of democratic life of a country must be written with the involvement of all political forces, not being able and not having to obey partisan electoral interests. And Violante commented: Ladies and gentlemen, we ask for a moment of consistency between what you have written in the last parliamentary term and what you are about to do today. The type of project you are presenting goes against certain fundamental principles of political democracy. We then try to ask both our colleagues in the centre-right and those in the PD for consistency: both over the years you have asked others not to approve reforms and electoral laws, that is, rules that concern everyone, which concern democracy, by means of majority shots and forcings. It is a serious mistake and you know perfectly well that this politically violent attitude was the Viatico, one of the best weapons offered to populism. Now you really want to repeat the same mistake? Do you think that if you fail again, it will bring you consensus and electoral victories? Don't you understand that this country needs to represent, first of all, its complexity to deal with the problems we face? We do not ask for self-criticism or wisdom. If you don't want to be wise, at least be consistent. But if you do not want to be consistent, at least be smart: you are taking away the last glimmer of credibility and, before falling into ridicule, stop because this would be yet another unconstitutional law that will elect yet another illegitimate Parliament, also in violation of European standards, as has been mentioned. I'll add one more thing. It is completely incomprehensible - I am addressing my colleagues in the Democratic Party - because you chose this law, which could have been the right hand, but its members - as you can see - are not even present among the benches to defend this measure which will bear fruit, but which you will take on all political responsibilities. It is completely incomprehensible and this law, above all, will not guarantee you even a sure re-election. The Italian Left Group will vote in favour of all the prejudices and also the suspensive presented in this House. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u31	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, when I spoke with Mr Marton, I took on board, at his suggestion, another of the many apories and, that is, the many irrationality and aberrations that the Senate Act 2941 contemplates. In the case of forced replacement of an elected person in a single college, what will happen? Referring to the tradition of elections with majoritarian single-member systems, it is thought that we are going to new elections. One forgets, however, that the elections that elected a deceased colleague - alas sometimes happen - have been, due to a drag or drift effect, capable of affecting a multi-name college relating to the single college. However, if there is a relationship of trust in the single system with that person who wants to send himself as representative of the college itself, of the territory and of the community in Parliament, failing it, it can quietly fail that trust relationship and one could have an electorally completely different result, without affecting the multi-nominal college. What shows this example effectively illustrated by the hard work of imagination, which is a virtue of who is as rational as Mr Marton? It shows that the law has been conceived with canons not of unconstitutionality (I do not allow myself to say it, even if then I will get there), but of irrationality. If a law can be irrational, first of all it is not fair because justice is rationality and, second, it is not even consistent with the values of our Constitutional Charter. Says a guy named Meuccio Ruini, that someone here should remember, that you win when you convince. What is the dimension with which we human beings can convince other human beings except that of the word which, by communicating, expresses rationality, which is the same value that makes us all equal? But you of this - I'm sorry to say - are not capable. You are not capable, because you do not want to be, otherwise such a law, full of perversions and aberrations, of real obituaries of logic, of the simple people who have at heart, as well as respect for the common good, respect for article 3 of our Constitution, as well as articles 48, 56, 72 and so on, never could have dreamed of it. Just yesterday I happened (but things don't always happen at random, indeed the opposite) to resume an old exchange between Kant and Constant, the one in which we reason on the relationship between truth and lie. Kant was considered by his contemporaries, even by later scholars, that philosopher who, almost as a wand and moralist, claimed that politics should be subject to moral control through the intervention of the rationality of law. Parliamentarians much better than I myself (I do not want to quote those present because otherwise I would be wronged to many), constitutionalists like Valerio Onida (not Carneade, but Valerio Onida, former President of the Constitutional Court), editors of newspapers, certainly not close to the political part I represent (see Paolo Mieli), have expressly spoken of alteration and manipulation of the intention of the citizen's vote. Do we still ask ourselves questions about the supposed constitutionality of the law, when there is evidently, clearly, alone, the proven proof of the irrationality of the norm? In the Commission, when the hearings were held, many raised strong, credible and rationally convincing arguments about the defects, apories and fragility of this rule, and I would like to reiterate them here, although not all of them. These include the joint vote, which seems to violate the principle of equality. Whoever intervened before me, even in the illustration of the preliminary ruling, reminded you that you are the creators of Mattarellum that when you had not reached such levels of perversion at least you had safeguarded the right of the voter to be able to vote "A", remaining his vote only and only on "A" through or disjoined or disjoined vote. Beware that these are exceptions that we tried, just in the afternoon of yesterday, to point out through our interventions in the amending phase of the norm; but as usual, when there was the general discussion, when we had to intervene on the substance of the issues, the majority was totally absent. There was a time when the majority in this House and in the Commission were zero: Torricelli's followers, the void. However, when it comes to voting, without having studied in general discussion the arguments, punctually, like mushrooms, all hands come out, all the upper limbs (if they are superior) of the colleagues of the majority and vote. And they do so naturally in accordance with the negative opinion of both the rapporteur and the Government, because all our amending proposals have been considered absolutely unacceptable. Mr President, I would also like to add a comment on the possibility that one of the last agencies that has been turned and that we have probably all read, namely that the government is ahead of schedule and that there may already be a vote of confidence this evening. Why is it that, having planned a possible session of this House next Friday morning, we are voting on such hasty and early confidence? It does not take so much to understand it: there is fear not so much of the consequences of demonstrations of the square that could take place today and tomorrow afternoon outside, but that they come to get the right and necessary emphasis, in front of all the Italians, the sluts made by the will of the majority. Beware, ladies and gentlemen, that the majority is not simply that of the Government, because the majority - paradoxically - is also on the other side. In fact, when it comes to voting for measures against citizens and voters, the veil melts like snow in the sun, for which, apparently, there is a majority and an alleged opposition and everything becomes clear and clear. You do not want the Italians to know that here we are consuming another example of how power, when it is not democratically oriented, considers the citizens. However, we have a duty, as well as the right, to testify. All this is gradually, slowly and tirelessly coming out and many citizens, starting with the forthcoming consultations in Sicily and in the X Town Hall of Rome, in Ostia, will make it clear to the caste and the party-cracy that this is not how an electoral law can be passed. I agree with so many who have preceded me: there is no perfect law and, at least, a perfect electoral law; however, Mr President, a simple and understandable law, if not by all, at least by so many, is different. I would remind you that Senator Ichino, thinking about the public administration and the legislative production involved in the reorganisation of public administration, stressed that our laws were no longer translated in Strasbourg and Brussels, because, even if translated, they remained incomprehensible. If a law, which should be an erga omnes instrument not to suppress, but rather to indicate and make understood, remains opaque and obscure, with veiled intentions, is it a democratic law? Good old Kant, mindful of the enlightening lesson, said that true democratic power does things not in secret, but in public, because it is not afraid of confrontation and dialogue. If you put your trust even tonight, you will prove to all Italians that you have a fucking fear that they open their eyes. Therefore, I am speaking frankly and realistically to those few senators who have expressed their position in the past, with votes also in dissent with respect to their group. I remember an intervention, if you want memorable, then disavowed by the votes subsequently produced, by my colleague Walter Tocci in relation to the question of trust on the jobs act. I turn to those few people who might hear a whisper of conscience in the face of yet another scumbag that will probably be consumed shortly. I believe that it is in everyone's interest to safeguard the institutions. You accuse us of being populists, but you are demagogues of the worst kind. Let me remind you that when the institution is demagogic and uses ignorance to subdue and subvert, then there is no more democracy but only a party-cratic regime. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u34	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, because of the attraction of the subject (we are talking about constitutionality), I would like to add an argument, on which I would like some authoritative response from the rapporteurs or the Government. I am referring to the question on which there is binding provision in this law, as it was in Italicum, of the alternation between men and women on the lists: a list in which there is no alternation is unacceptable. Now, I have a historical memory: I was a candidate in 1994 and in Mattarellum there was this rule. However, the year after the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 422 of 1995 (President Baldassarre), dropped that rule, clearly writing that it was contrary to the constitutional parameters, because a rule of law requiring, in the submission of candidatures to public office, any form of quotas by reason of the gender of candidates is not acceptable. What happened after that sentence? In the Council of Ministers (of which I was a member at the time) we amended Article 51 of the Constitution, but without the proposal of Minister Prestigiacomo, who wanted to introduce into the Constitution the concept of quotas, and after a thorough discussion (just go and see the acts of the Council of Ministers), it was written, in the new Article 51, that the Republic promotes with special measures the equal opportunities between women and men. Of course, this has been read by all in the sense of adopting a series of active policies to promote women's participation in politics, to ensure that women are present on the lists, but not by taking and explicitly eliminating any reference to the obligation to propose to voters lists blocked in this way. I have been told that, in the following, constitutional jurisprudence has changed. Mr President, we have a very efficient Study Service which has provided me with all the subsequent judgments of the Constitutional Court, which confirm the 1995 ruling. The Court was interested in certain regional measures which favoured the presence of women on the lists or provided for dual preference, i.e. obliged the elector who expressed the first preference for a man to express the second preference for a woman, or vice versa. In a judgment of 2010 the Constitutional Court writes that there is nothing binding in this, indeed that this rule allows the elector one more faculty; in fact, the elector is given the possibility to vote only one man or only a woman; or, if he wants to use the second preference, he must do so by differentiating gender. So, writes the Constitutional Court, there is no obligation and there is no list in which you are obliged; but to do what? The Court points out in the reasoning underlying the 1995 judgment. If I have a very good woman in a circuit and I put her in charge and then I have another woman equally good and I want to put her in second place (since more than two are difficult for them to be elected), by law I cannot do it: in the second place there must be a man, any man, even the most unfit and the most incapable must take the place of the very good woman, or vice versa. Of course I remember the tragedy of 1994 and the anxious search for owl nominations; I remember the dramas of the lists where people who had roots in the territory could not find their place. But the question I ask is: how do we propose the same same rule, under penalty of inadmissibility of the list, when the 1995 judgment declared it manifestly unconstitutional and there is no subsequent judgment of the Constitutional Court on the basis of Article 51, as amended (which favours active policies to promote the participation of women in politics not the madness of these quotas)? Let us think of democratic systems that have centuries of experience, for example the United States. Can you imagine a rule in the United States that the two Senators of Texas must be a man and a woman and that they cannot be two men or two women? Or that the U.S. Congress gets it this way, with the odds? Do you think that in the United Kingdom, the homeland of democracy, a rule can pass which, in a binding way, obliges, if there is a man in a college, to place a woman in the neighbouring one, or vice versa? I know that this intervention will be of little use, but I leave it as evidence of the fact that when the Constitutional Court, which is so often invoked, expresses itself in the clearest possible way its judgments are torn apart. Not only that: they are torn apart without any subsequent amendment of the Constitution, no ordinary law or any subsequent judgment of the Court aimed at changing a fundamental principle. In fact, voters cannot be forced into a quota policy which is totally contrary to the spirit of Article 51 and Article 3 of the Constitution. Go and read again the 1995 judgment No 422 which explains that these co-active quotas radically damage the spirit of Article 3, for the reason I said earlier. In this way, in fact, it is enough a question related to sex to take out an Einstein and put in his place the last of the jerks; or, vice versa, in the case of a very intelligent woman, a Nobel prize winner, a very capable woman, there would be nothing to do: if the first on the list is a woman, in the second place there can be no other woman. Is it possible to approve here another rule which will certainly be brought to the attention of the Court and will be dealt with in conjunction with other anomalies? This is a question I ask, hoping that the Government or the rapporteur will give me an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u37	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Court cannot fail to point out that the outcome of the referendum under Article 138 of the Constitution of 4 December 2016 confirmed a constitutional framework based on the equal position and functions of the two elected chambers. In this context, the Constitution, if it does not require the legislator to introduce identical electoral systems for the two branches of Parliament, however, requires that, in order not to compromise the proper functioning of the form of parliamentary government, the systems adopted, although different, do not hinder the outcome of the elections, the formation of homogeneous parliamentary majorities. This is what the Constitutional Court says in sentence 35 of 2017 and I believe that it is the warning that should have guided everyone's reflection, at this moment in the parliamentary situation and in the parliamentary debate. Does anyone in this House believe that the Legalicum or the Consultellum would give the country the opportunity to choose stable and homogeneous majorities? Is it believed that with the Legalicum and the Consultellum we would really be faced with an equal and equal vote for everyone? We absolutely do not believe that, and that is why this law came to the House with a large majority, which I personally do not consider to be the best law. I would have preferred a majority law, truly majority law. This, however, is the law and, in the face of this law, for the umpteenth time we have seen the spectacle of the no a priori and the no that happens on all the proposals of electoral law that come forward, perhaps with the contradiction in the sense that, for each law, we use those arguments that in the previous case have been used for the opposite purpose. Having said that, we must make a distinction, when we talk about constitutional prejudices, between those who are profiles really concerning the contrast to the Constitution and the questions of "benaltism," that is, preference for other models. This "benaltism," which is the sport most practiced, is unfortunately the demonstration, as on other occasions, of an opposition of the pure destructive criticism, an end in itself, for which everything and the opposite of everything goes well, provided that we do not arrive at a solution. And what sense of responsibility is there when it concerns the electoral law, that is, when it concerns the rules for defining parliamentary assemblies? In this perspective, there is a first remark that I believe should be made. Our Constitution draws a parliamentary Republic, that is, centred on the centrality of Parliament without direct investiture of the Premier. In this context, as history teaches, purely proportional electoral models, mixed models or majority models are compatible. It is Parliament's choice in its broad and autonomous determination, without any unconstitutional electoral systems except, in fact, presidential or semi-presidential ones. And that is what happened after the referendum of the 1990s on proportional and majority voting, for the responsibility of a political class that has never fully implemented the referendum result, namely the majority system. Today the Senate is called to vote on a majority system of 36% and proportional to 64 percent that will ensure representation with the barrier of 3 percent and that does not preclude governability, like the Mattarellum and the Porcellum, carefully calibrated, let's say the truth, to avoid the full majority effect, taboo of the political class of the last 20 years, frightened by a truly majority system for the sake of consociativism. Despite this, the system under examination today is accused of being unconstitutional because it would ensure neither representation nor governability. In essence, we want to argue from the outset that the only acceptable system is pure proportionality. It is not written in the Constitution. And the experience of the democratic states shows us that the correctives to this model are abundantly present, starting with the "mythical" Germany. What, then, would be in a proposal such as the one that emerges in this law, the constitutional norm violated? However, there is no one who does not see the contradiction of those who accuse these laws of not guaranteeing governability after yelling at the wolf, at the wolf!It is against Italicum because it would guarantee the governability and today denounces the unconstitutionality of the bill to our examination because it does not guarantee the governability. A third alternative is not given and it is quite singular that today governance is invoked as a parameter of constitutionality after having argued that the Constitution guarantees the only representativeness. It is peaceful, according to constitutional jurisprudence, that the degree of governability proper to an electoral law is put back to the discretion of the legislator with the limit of unreasonableness and manifest illogicality, and it is evident that in a parliamentary system the variables can be multiple. These include the Rosatellum 2.0, which is characterized by the combination of two systems - proportional and majority - with the prevalence of the first and with a attenuated majority principle that certainly strengthens the centrality of Parliament and therefore, in this respect, introduces a road that overcomes the many criticisms that have come to a Parliament that has been depowered and that has been removed from its function over the past five years. But the criticisms that have been brought to this bill with the prejudices are of course also others. I leave aside those which do not deserve consideration, in the sense that they belong to an exasperated dialectic controversy which I believe does not honour this House and which should not be repeated. It was said first of all that Article 48 of the Constitution would be violated because the vote would not be personal and direct. From the constitutional point of view, the issue of compliance with Article 48 of the Constitution is linked to a clear discipline of the effect of voting. This discipline, in this law, is present and, just so that it is even clearer, it is on the back of the card, so that each elector can decide how to vote and can decide whether to give the vote both to the unitary and to the plurinomial or how to behave differently. There is a single voting principle, it is a choice which does not find an element of opposition in the Constitution. Could another model be chosen? Of course, but this is the model that has been chosen and submitted. It is a question of legislative choice and political opportunity. But constitutionality has nothing to do with it. It is not by chance that there have been no real elements of unconstitutionality in this respect. We have been complaining about the excess of the thresholds; we have been complaining about the 1% threshold, but I have also heard comments in this House that considered the thresholds too high because they were dispersing the vote below the threshold. Well, the 1% threshold guarantees exactly that the vote that does not reach the threshold of three percent or ten percent should not be lost. It is a principle that democratically recovers the electorate's vote to its own function. There has also been a complaint about the discipline that provides for the allocation of seats when the quotients are not full or when one gets to a point for which the seat must be assigned out of its context. In this regard, I would like to read what the 2017 judgment No 35 says: With reference to the electoral system introduced by Law No. 52 of 2015, if it is constitutionally legitimate for the division of seats to take place at national level,... the fourth paragraph of Article 56 of the Constitution must therefore be observed as far as is reasonably possible, without excluding the legitimacy of residual and inevitable hypothesis of transfer of seats from one constituency to another. In short, the mechanism for allocating seats (...) does not infringe the fourth paragraph of Article 56 of the Constitution, since the transfer of seats from one constituency to another constitutes a residual hypothesis in the procedure for allocating seats. There is one final question with regard to the question of the prediction of coalitions of lists not of programmatic coalitions. This is also a choice put back to the autonomy of the legislator. Where is the contrast between this hypothesis and the rules concerning constitutional law? On this level, these are the considerations for which the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the prejudices. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u40	TRONTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a moment's attention. In the midst of the convulsive work of these days a pause for reflection can do well. I would like to remind you of an event the centenary of which is taking place this year. On October 24, according to the Julian calendar, or on November 7, according to the Gregorian calendar, 1917 the revolution in Russia exploded in the world. I wondered about the opportunity to propose here, in the Senate of the Republic, the memory of this date; I am aware that this can come to disturb the sensitivity of some and some, who legitimately can nourish absolute hostility towards that event, but we are a hundred years from that date and we can talk about it, as I intend to do, with passion and at the same time with disenchantment. I don't know if it's true or legend, that time they asked Chou en-Lai, the 1950s, what judgment he felt to give on the French Revolution of 1789. And the answer was, "Too soon to talk about it." Of those ten days that devastated the world, according to the report by American journalist John Reed, many newspapers, many magazines and many books are dealing today. Moreover, in order to put a bit of irony in events that have on their side not a little tragic events, it could be said that this too, as we often do in this Chamber, is the commemoration of a deceased: here, in Palazzo Madama, as in Montecitorio, especially in the first legislature, followed by the Constitution, took place some protagonists who had lived that story in first person. This memory of me also wants to be a tribute to these Fathers. 1917 is a consequence of 1914. Without the Great War there would not have been the Great Revolution. And the thing to remember immediately is that the first claim, that perhaps more than others produced the success of the revolution, was the vindication of peace: peace at all costs, it was said, even at the cost of losing the war. When Lenin, against all, signed the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, he accepted all the heavy conditions to bring the soldiers home. Lenin was the author of what in my opinion was the most daring form of revolutionary appeal, when he told the Russian soldiers, workers and peasants who fought in war not to shoot German soldiers and peasants, but to turn the guns and shoot the Tsarist generals. There was that idea, which had been before Marx, of proletarian internationalism; an idea not at all biased, which instead sinks its long roots into modern humanism. Already in the revolutionary movements of 1905, the soldiers refused to shoot at the crowd and had shot at their officers; 1905 and 1917 are the two stages of the revolution in Russia. The lucid strategy, which will be of the Bolsheviks against the Mensheviks, was that the communists had to put themselves at the head of the democratic revolution to bring it to its natural consequences, which were in the socialist revolution. If democracy is in fact the kratos in the hands of the demos, the power in the hands of the people, what more democratic instrument than the Soviets, the councils of workers and peasants? But, attention, the Soviets had to become a state, they had to take on the general interest. And the fact that instead of becoming a state they started, who knows that this was not the real point of catastrophe of the entire project. However, that direct democracy has nothing to do with the present immediate democracy. This not only does not become an institution, but it is anti-institutional and therefore anti-political and then it is conservative, if not even reactionary. The revolution began on three watchwords: peace, bread, earth and simple words, which touched the heart of the ancient Russian people; three things that had been taken away from that people and the revolution returned them to them. For this reason the assault on heaven, which had already attempted in vain the heroic comunards of Paris, won in Petrograd with the assault on the Winter Palace. Colleagues, President, I am well aware of the continuation of history. A revolution, born of war, was found at war with the rest of the world, surrounded and fought. I do not mean to hide, let alone justify, the deviations, the errors, the violence, the real crimes committed. Here, there is the great problem of why the revolution, that is, the project of transformation into great of the course of history, historically leads to terror. And the problem is not only about the proletarians: the bourgeois have done no less in their revolutions. The English revolution of the mid-sixteenth century and the French Revolution of the late eighteenth century, both brought down the king's head. And the American Revolution, in order to produce the most stable democracy in the world, had to go through a terrible civil war. Are revolution and war, then, revolution and terror inseparable? Therefore, should we resign ourselves to the practice of so-called gradual reforms, which, however, can never, in any way, call into question the relationship - which is then a relationship of strength - between below and above, between the bottom and the top of society? This is the problem that still poses us today, after a century, that October of '17. That is why, if possible, I would like to isolate the liberating value of that revolutionary act from the epochal failures and also from the anti-libertarian constraints that followed it in its realization. I remember a date and condemn a later denial of it. That act finds its foundation in the wonderful beginning of the century. The first decade of the twentieth century saw the breaking, also subversive, of the transassessment of all forms: in the artistic field, with avant-gardes, figurative arts, poetry, narrative, music; with the advance of the principle of uncertainty in the exact sciences and the collapse of Newtonian mechanics; in philosophical thought, with the questioning of illuministic reason. How could the forms of politics, organizations and institutions not be overwhelmed by this Sturm und Drang, by this impetus and assault? Just as the great Vienna was the heart of that cultural revolt, so Petersburg becomes the heart of a political revolt. The century will be entirely marked by it. The soul and forms are the splendid title of a book by the young Lukacs, which came out in 1911. It was the soul of Europe and it was, as Husserl will say years later, the crisis in European sciences that overturned all nineteenth-century forms. Colleagues, the spirit always anticipates history. The revolution of '17, in Russia, is in the midst of this total ferment. Act of Liberation, which will set in motion huge masses of people and will result in life choices of small and great personalities. It was referred to by many of the antifascist rebels, while they suffered imprisonment and exile, many of the fighters in the Spanish war against the Francoists, many of the partisans who went up to the mountains against the Nazis. If you read the letters of those sentenced to death of the Resistance, in Italy and Europe, you will often find the last shout of greeting for that event. I realize that I am talking about it with too much participation and even too much emphasis, but you see, ladies and gentlemen, I consider myself a son of that story. Frankly, I tell you that I wouldn't even be here if I hadn't started from there, here to make politics for the same ends by other means, without repeating anything of that distant time, passed through so many transformations, but remaining identical myself. I assure you: it is an exercise even reckless, but exciting, if enthusiasm can still be granted to us in these sad times. I'm still sorry. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u43	MAURO Mario (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, although with much less preparation, but evoked by the same words as Professor Tronti, I would like to draw attention to a few points connected with the celebration of this centenary. The first major evidence is the fact that the Russian Revolution and, in particular, those days of the October Revolution are precisely the key to the interpretation of the ideologies of the twentieth century. Ideologies that have synthesized a very simple point of view about man: power is everything and man is nothing. This is perhaps the true heart of that ideological season because ideology is precisely this capacity of representation of reality in which the myth of the new man widely transcends the data of reality itself and one arrives at the heart of man only through the shortcut of violence. When Lenin and Stalin took power in Russia, they wanted to create a society tailored to the workers and to the new proletarian classes; but Russia was not that country. They took, then, 20 million smallholder peasants, the kulaki, and killed them, so that the reality could stay inside the one they imagined. Thus many others settled in the history of the twentieth century. In Hitler's 'Mein Kampf', for many pages the idea is reiterated that man is the pivot of the whole building around which to rotate the universe, but from page 45 onwards Adolf Hitler also writes that Jews are not men and the consequences that he draws are daughters of that logic. When Pol Pot, an intellectual who studied at the Sorbonne, returned to his country, decided to take the lives of those wearing glasses, because if they had glasses they could have studied something different from Marxism and for this reason represent the condemnation of humanity. What I mean is that in the twentieth century ideologies took hostage the word "people" and in the name of that word they led a revolution understood as a paradigm of the words I mentioned at the beginning: power is everything and man is nothing. Today new ideologies make, with greater pervicacy, this same comparison: it is no longer the word "people" that is taken hostage, but the word "God". The Islamist ideology, for example, by taking this word hostage, makes it sufficient still few reasons for its own power project. What we must learn from the experience of the October Revolution, therefore, is that always, where ideology anticipates the myth of the new man, this will know the defeat of reality, that is, it will be nailed by those data of a silent humanity that is continuously able to question us about our destiny, about the destiny of man that is much greater than the force of ideologies, because the force of the motors that move history is found precisely in the heart of man. I will never forget to have learned the meaning of the fight against ideologies from a television broadcast, which a man who sits on those benches has proposed to all of us: the transmission was "The Night of the Republic," that is, the night of a season in which people have forgotten their humanity, precisely because won and convinced by an ideology that held them hostage. I hope that the memory that Professor Tronti proposed to us can on this occasion remind us that our humanity is greater than all the forms that ideology takes to make us forget what is true, what is beautiful and what is right. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi and Malan. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u44	As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the vote on incidental matters will take place at 5 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 434 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u47	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, allow me to greet Mrs Rossi, who is in the gallery, her family and friends, who give this memory of Guido Rossi a special weight. Guido Rossi was talked about a lot after he disappeared. It has been said by many that he was a great jurist and a great democrat, and that's right because he was really both in an excellent way. I think, however, that no definition can give account of an extraordinary personality like his, which was not only that of a teacher of law but of a man who has done many things, always going to the heart of the problems that life put before him. Wherever he was, in his lawyer's office or at lunch with friends, his intelligence never stopped, he never stopped thinking, designing, studying and even smiling, because Guido Rossi liked good conversation, literature, art, poetry, well-made things and even decent people. He had a really special look, two very sharp eyes that always sprung interest and curiosity; in that look there was everything, his intelligence and his will, his joy and his seriousness. The richness of his interests, the freedom of judgment, the continuous search for the new does not make it easy to catalog it in the patterns to which we are accustomed: he was certainly a jurist and a Democrat, but also much more. Deeply aware of our right, he taught it in the most important Italian universities, but he was also a great expert in the legal systems of Western democracies and even intricate European legislation. He was a great lawyer, a talented professional to whom for decades the protagonists of the Italian economy have addressed themselves asking him for help in solving the most intricate and difficult issues. First president of Consob, in that role he was a true servant of the State. He ruled CONSOB with balance, considering all the delicacy of the activity of an independent public institution that was called to operate pioneering in difficult and very risky years. He was a senator of the Republic and the competition law of which he was author, in fact for him it was an important piece of a long work that saw him engaged throughout his life in an attempt to transform into a transparent, competitive and clean reality a market that he rightly saw opaque, marked by epidemic conflicts of interest. He was also an authoritative head of the company, called to restore important multinationals affected not only by serious industrial and financial crises, but also by the loss of part of their credibility and good repute. Looking back on the life of Guido Rossi and the extraordinary qualities that have led him to excel everywhere, it is natural to wonder what were the threads that united in one person such a varied talent, so many interests and so lively. It is also a difficult question for those who have met Guido Rossi and have been his friend. Perhaps we need to spend some time, at least what is necessary to re-read his books, his writings, to reflect on his public positions, to retrace his professional and institutional life, to rethink his political and parliamentary commitment. Even today, however, we can say that Guido Rossi, while loyally and without discounts the many realities of a difficult and often sick society like ours, has always lived in the most absolute linearity of thought and in the most complete correctness of action. In the daily battle between the public good and the selfishness of society we can say that he has always fought to affirm the priority of the rule of law and the rules of fairness. I like to think that a good synthesis of Guido Rossi's personality can be found in his relationship with art, his great passion lived by visiting exhibitions and museums, going wherever there was something beautiful that deserved a trip or a visit. He was a great collector, very rigorous and attentive to the cultural coherence of his choices. Guido Rossi, art not only looked at and admired her, but also studied her in depth, with the rigor she put in all the things she kept. He wanted to fully understand the meaning of the works he looked at or bought, because he knew that only in this way, only by understanding them in depth, could he love them with a truly conscious love. He liked to repeat a phrase of an important Venetian art historian, his great friend, Alessandro Bettagno, who often said: In paintings one sees what he knows. In the same way, another great, Federico Zeri, completed Bettagno's thought by saying: The picture is a source of knowledge rather than pleasure. Those of Zeri and Bettagno are two magnificent expressions, because they synthesize with much lucidity how knowledge and culture can help us achieve the true enjoyment of the work of art. Guido Rossi knew that any great work, whether that of a surrealist or a dada, but also a masterpiece of the Venetian art of the eighteenth century, or a precious book of the seventeenth or eighteenth century, to be truly understood and admired, needs to be looked at knowing how to appreciate its deep meaning, where knowing means not only knowing the history and cultural horizon of the work, but also, as Guido Rossi said, reaching deep, up to the knowledge of the expressive and aesthetic techniques and researches that have followed over the centuries and have guided the hand and mind of the author of the painting. I remembered all this, because I think that for Guido Rossi the need for knowledge was not only as a rule to follow in front of a painting or in a museum. For him the thirst for knowledge was a rule of life, a method by which he dealt with every chapter of his rich existence. For us, too, who sit in Parliament, if we do not want to be content to observe reality with a superficial look, but we think that it is necessary to understand everything in depth, the imperative must be to try to see the world with the eyes of knowledge and study. Guido Rossi has never stopped at appearances, he has never satisfied himself with the first glance, but he has spent so much of his energy and intellect to truly understand and be able to see to the very bottom the deep sense of things and events. This is the legacy of Guido Rossi that we must take into account. We, senators and senators, are deciding every day, with our vote, whether or not to approve an amendment, whether to say yes or no to a law. In this function we are guaranteed by the Constitution, which guarantees us full freedom of mandate. This great freedom greatly increases our responsibility and we must not waste it on the game of interests or the trade in ideas. In order for us to make good use of our full freedom in Parliament, Guido Rossi has left us told us that our every decision must be guided as well as by political reasoning, also by the knowledge of the State and its institutions, which is always very tiring to reach, but which alone can lead us to separate what really serves our country from what is needed for our particular interest. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP-CpE-NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u50	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, in his long career Guido Rossi, born in 1931, has held several roles, including Consob President, Senator, President of Montedison and then Telecom. Guido Rossi was also on the board of directors of Inter. So, it's a resume that's not indifferent, enviable, capable and trustworthy. In 2006, after the soccer scandal, Guido Rossi was appointed Special Commissioner of the FIGC. The experience of Federcalcio's commissioner made him, photographed with the World Cup in hand in the Berlin Stadium, the most famous lawyer, but - perhaps - even the most hated by the fans of some teams. The last assignment of his study dates back to last year, in the negotiation with the extraordinary commissioners of the ILVA, in which he also assisted the Riva family. At stake was the count of the millionaire amount of the heirs of Emilio Riva, who had to pay for environmental rehabilitation. I remember this because this House has repeatedly examined measures relating to this major problem. It was not the first time, moreover, that the road of Guido Rossi crossed with the destinies of the ILVA and of what pertained to it. It was already the year 1996 when Emilio Riva appealed to him for arbitration with the IRI. In view of his uprightness in certain respects, it must be remembered when 800 billion lire were requested as the last tranche of the operation and he charged only 180 lire, subtracting from the total the cost necessary for the adaptation of the plants to the environmental regulations. In addition to the offices, Guido Rossi was among the most well-known Italian lawyers and among the top experts in company law. Born in Milan eighty-six years ago, after graduating in law in Pavia, for the master he had chosen Harvard, in times when it was certainly not frequent that a young man could go to study in America. "Genius with a butcher's face" he called him Vittorio Feltri, noting that the professor is on the left because the streets are downhill and Rossi never takes the rugged roads. Save then add: "I will never say a wrong word about him, because the history of his family enchants me and moves me: son of an employee of the City of Milan, who has been able to educate him like any one of us dreams of educating the offspring. His father never recognized him, but he provided him with the means to graduate. Never better money was spent. His fame of phenomenon begins at Ghisleri, college of Pavia, workshop of poor brains, but ambitious; he then graduated in philosophy with a thesis on Max Weber. Rossi instead premiered at jurisprudence, so much so that, remembers a classmate, he was teaching professors, not vice versa. In fact, he graduated at the age of 22. I've never met him, except for ILVA-related matters, and that's why I've allowed myself to make this point. Guido Rossi was, among other things, the author of several publications, including "Legal person, property and risk of enterprise" (Capitalisma matta) " (Capitalismo matta) " (Capitalismo matta) " (Capitalismo matta) " (Capitalismo matta) " (Capitalismo matta) " (The Gambling Market) " We of the League remember him in this way, with this small intervention, making condolences, even if after some time, to the whole family. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u53	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have had the opportunity several times to meet Professor Guido Rossi and, from pupil to teacher, to work with him on some sensitive issues. I do not need to outline his mastery in law: it is well known from the scientific, professional and academic point of view. There is therefore no need to comment on it; one would say that it comments on its own. But I must remember some human traits of extraordinary standing, which I had the opportunity, together with my brother Nicola, to detect in him. The first, I remember it carefully: in the face of an act drafted by a young lawyer from the South, Professor Guido Rossi did not practice to correct it deeply, but he needed a few brief sketches to deepen the essential issues, to grasp the underlying legal points and sometimes to innovate deeply on the existing or existing law at that time. He was in fact, for some issues of commercial law in Italy, a real innovator. His opinions, long debated in doctrine and jurisprudence, were then affirmed and consolidated definitively in the order. I still keep some of his brief corrections, very punctual, in-depth and determined. The second aspect I have to remember about him is the deep relationship he had with culture. He always told me an episode that had to do with a great man who was born in my city, Gaetano Salvemini. At the time when he was a very young graduate in Milan, in the first post-war period, there were three annual scholarships that the winning powers had allocated in favor of the defeated powers: Italy, Germany and Japan. The year Professor Rossi graduated from that scholarship at Harvard was not Italy's turn. Then his professors wondered, given the great and brilliant performance of the professor, how he could get that master's degree (I don't know if it was already called that at the time, but it was something similar). He was told that there was only one person who could do it, and he was Professor Gaetano Salvemini of Molfetta. He then wrote to him and, after an interview with Professor Salvemini, during which the great historian was convinced of the professional qualities of young Guido Rossi, was admitted in an exceptional and extraordinary way to this course. It is no coincidence that his training allowed his legal culture also a deep knowledge of the Anglo-Saxon way and the ability to address its issues, leading him also to introduce some fundamental institutions into Italian law. Consob comes from the American SEC and only Professor Guido Rossi, in the sixties and seventies, understood its importance in the face of an asfittic market such as the Italian one. For this reason, as Senator first and as President of Consob then, he was able to introduce significant innovations in Italian commercial law. It seemed useful to me to remember these traits of his figure that made illustrious, first of all a great expert of law, a professor, a lawyer and then also a senator of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and FL Groups (ID-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u54	On behalf of myself and of the whole Senate, I join in the condolences of the senators who have spoken and I invite the House to observe a moment of reflection and silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the incidental issues, I would warn you that Senator De Petris, on behalf of the prescribed number of senators, has asked for a secret ballot on certain paragraphs of the premises and the operative part of the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2, in relation to linguistic minorities. The request is inadmissible for the following reasons. First of all, Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure states that voting on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and suspensive shall take place by show of hands, so voting by electronic (named or secret) procedure shall be excluded. In particular, the request concerns only certain periods of the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2 and therefore the possible secret ballot should be preceded by a decision by the Assembly on the separate vote, which is also not practicable on an incidental issue. In fact, paragraph 5 of Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure states that on all questions referred for a preliminary ruling - in this case four - even if raised with different reasons, a single vote shall be taken. The request cannot therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u56	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Francesco Collecini - Giovanni XXIII" of Castel Morrone in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u59	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know whether you have already spoken on the admissibility of the secret vote required for the suspensive issue that has been tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This also applies to the suspensive issue. CRIMI (M5S). I would like to point out, Mr President, that the specific case of the suspensive request we have made refers exclusively to the protection of linguistic minorities. It does not refer to anything else and we have not asked for a split vote or for separate parts. The vote on the suspension, other than the vote on the preliminary rulings because the suspensive question provides for a return to the Commission and does not close the debate on the electoral law, had a specific purpose: to deepen the question related to the protection of linguistic minorities due to the abolition of the separation. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to carefully consider the inadmissibility of the secret vote on the suspensive issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u60	As regards the suspensive question, that is what has already been said, namely that since the vote by show of hands expressly provided for in Rule 93, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, electronic votes (appointed or secret) are not allowed. That is the reason given, regardless of the split votes which were not requested in the case of suspension but only in the case of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u61	Mr President, allow me to say that Article 93 (5) says this, but there is also Article 113 (4) which states that, with regard to secret ballots, it is permitted for all the deliberations - so it does not refer only to the amendments - concerning the rules on linguistic minorities referred to in Article 6 of the Constitution. Therefore, we are faced with two articles of the Rules of Procedure, the first of which requires a vote by show of hands, while the second protects the vote on linguistic minorities. We are talking about any kind of resolution, we are not specifically voting on amendments, articles or anything else. We are talking about a resolution in the broadest sense. Therefore, we are faced with a decision on what is more important to protect: is the vote by show of hands - I repeat, by show of hands, just so that it is clear: the Senate is still voted by show of hands - or the confidentiality of the vote on a matter protected from constitutional prerogatives, President? Let me ask you a question you should answer. However, I repeat my request: perhaps, in this case, since for the previous laws such as Italicum has never been convened, the Board for the Rules of Procedure could settle which of the two articles of the Rules of Procedure takes precedence over the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u62	Among the proposals that you have also made for the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, surely this too can be evaluated from an amending point of view. There is no doubt, however, that according to its interpretation, any vote taken by show of hands, such as the approval of the minutes, could provide for the request for a secret vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] In the Rules of Procedure the vote by show of hands prevails. That's the decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u65	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order, because where it is required that the deliberations take place by secret ballot - all, none excluded - this prevails over any other consideration, as it is a matter governed in a specific and direct way. Therefore, it is not even possible to interpret something that is already clear in the Rules of Procedure. We are not talking about a reform to be implemented, we are talking about the current Regulation. Mr President, I insist that you have made an inaccuracy in postponing a subsequent verification of what is already clear and prescriptive in the current Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are talking about an electoral law; we are at a time when we are voting by show of hands on the questions of prejudice and suspensive. That's the decision. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The fact that we are on an electoral law recommends that we respect the Rules of Procedure and not vice versa, not interpretive flexibility. We have already seen many here: on constitutional reform, on the previous unconstitutional slutty of Italicum, before it was stirred up by the Constitutional Court. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not a law on linguistic minorities on which you can... [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] I understand your point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u68	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement for their particular attention recently to the problems of linguistic minorities. I would just like to remind the House that all the amendments tabled by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement aim not to protect linguistic minorities, but to discriminate against them, as does this request for suspension. I therefore fully agree with the President's decision not to accept the secret vote. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senator Crosio.]] [[Comments from M5S and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups]] WOMAN (M5S). What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u71	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I am speaking on a point of order, Mr President. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u72	Senator Endrizzi, the Presidency has already spoken on this issue, so please do not go back there.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u73	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I refer to Article 93. CARDINALI (PD). Stop! ENDRIZZI (M5S). I would like to remind Senator Zeller, as a premise, that the bill we are talking about includes a masked proportional college because the multi-annual college for the election of a single candidate is basically a majoritarian; all the more so in an autonomous Province with 70 percent German-speaking population, which you consider to represent in monopoly, this obliges the linguistic minority to have to choose your party by force. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SI-SEL Groups and Senator Mussini]] Having said that, Mr President, it is very clear that the rules in this Chamber have now been cut off as well as the fundamental principles of respect; procedures have been cut off, respect for the debate has been missed. Why didn't Senator Zeller come to the Commission to say what he's saying now? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We discussed it in their vacuum tire. Why didn't you participate and you didn't say so that we could discuss this which is a timely and macroscopic twist at the same time? As regards incidental matters, Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure is titled 'Preliminary and suspensive questions'. These are two distinct subjects. Paragraph 5 says: On the question referred for a preliminary ruling, even if raised with several other reasoned proposals, a single vote shall be taken, which shall take place by show of hands, as you have said, but the suspensive vote shall not be included in paragraph 5: it shall be voted separately for another reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u74	In fact, we are voting separately. I have not said that we vote together for prejudice and suspensive; don't make me say things I haven't said, please. I said that we should vote for the prejudices first, then we should vote for the suspensive vote; I did not say that we are voting together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u75	So, do you confirm that there will be two votes and not one? Well, then I ask you what is the real reason for not admitting the secret vote on the suspensive that you vote separately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u76	Perhaps I did not explain myself once again: we vote by show of hands. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Endrizzi and other senators (QP1), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2), Senator Fornaro and other senators (QP3), and Senator Lo Moro and other senators (QP4). It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the question of suspensive QS1, presented by Senator Crimes and other senators. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of draft law No 2941, which contain: Changes to the electoral system of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Delegation to the Government for the determination of single and plurinomial electoral colleges in the text dismissed by the Commission, identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[The Senators of the Misto-SI-SEL Group display signs bearing the inscription: "Zero trust."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u78	I beg Senators Quaestors and assistants to remove the cartels.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u79	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Are you in a hurry? Not even the argument? Can't we talk? VOICES FROM THE JOINT GROUP-SI-SEL. Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This gazzarra, please, no. The government has put the question of trust. It's his faculty.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Shame! You've had enough! We cannot even speak in this House! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, the government representative has raised the question of trust and, as you know, it is a faculty of government towards Parliament. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). The Senate still exists! ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I ask you to appear on video. SANTANGELO (M5S). Shut the button, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. First I have to give you the floor, Senator Endrizzi and as long as there are signs... AIROLA (M5S). We're with our hands up. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Then I wait patiently. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, I would like to draw your attention to the order of business in this House. We have been seriously preceded by violations of the basic principles of institutional respect, not only among parliamentary groups, but also towards citizens. In the Chamber of Deputies, the electoral law, which came into the Chamber, was sent back to the Commission after a sacrosanct amendment establishing equality between all citizens on Italian territory, and not an extra-territorial free zone in Trentino-Alto Adige, had been voted on. The law has been radically changed. A new general discussion on a new text was not accepted. No additions have been made, no simulations have been made, and the text has arrived again in the Chamber; through the opposition of the question of trust, the debate has been "tombed" with a casting of cement on the decency and minimum respect of the Assembly. Arriving here at the Senate, the measure had the hours counted. A compressed timetable has been laid down in the Commission. We immediately faced the majority, which did not come into general discussion... AIROLA (M5S). ...and now he's laughing! ENDRIZZI (M5S). As for the amendments, we were told in advance that nothing would pass. The government anticipated the issue of trust without anyone calling for it, doing worse than what had happened in the Chamber of Deputies, where at least it had moved on, not already in Parliament, but in the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Barozzino and Ricchiuti.]] We are now seeing the debate in this House once again oppressed, which should be sacred, unique and final bulwark so that this thing does not be consumed in the ominous silence. Nor is the general discussion allowed to take place - goodness to them! - by the government, closed in its ivory tower, because with the vote of confidence, once again, the right of a people is violated. I ask that the slightest decency be restored immediately and that the Government return to its steps, allowing the general discussion and possibly putting the question of trust, if, on the basis of the contents that have emerged, it does not decide - spontaneously or "pushly" - to repent on this purpose. The general debate here is sacred: otherwise it would no longer be called Parliament. Mr President, I would like to address you and the Government so that we do not carry out this yet another misdemeanor. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Ricchiuti. Senators De Petris and Guerra indicate they want to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u81	Maybe it's a government problem. (The Senators of the M5S Group cover their eyes and mouths with a white bandage). Please! The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of bill No 2941, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr. President! Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. [[Vivacious protests by Senator De Petris]] I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.13 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u82	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the five issues of confidence raised by the Government on the approval of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of the draft electoral reform law. The single debate on the whole of the five trusts, for which time has been allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups, will begin this afternoon until 9 p.m. and will continue tomorrow morning with the beginning of the sitting at 9 a.m. and until 2 p.m. The first call, referred to in Article 1, will therefore take place from 14:00, the second call (Article 2) at 15:00, the third call (Article 3) at 16:00, the fourth call (Article 4) at 17:00. At 6 p.m. Article 5 will normally be voted on, on which the question of trust has not been raised. The fifth and final call, referred to in Article 6, will be immediately followed. Explanations of vote will take place on Thursday morning, starting at 9.30 a.m. It will then follow the final vote on the bill, orientally at 11 o'clock. The Conference of Leaders will meet shortly afterwards to establish the timetable for work in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u85	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, there are times when minimum compliance with the rules is not just a due act. In the face of such an act, which I can only refer to as arrogant by the Government and beyond any prediction, I believe that anyone who had asked for the floor in this House on the order of business (as I did, but I believe that it also happened to other Leaders) would have had the right to speak before the whole House, not only to give a judgment but to do their duty, Mr President. Among other things, in this particular case, the group leaders - as you know perfectly well than I do - have the opportunity to speak on the order of business. You see, Mr President, that was what we had done and that, as far as I am concerned, I had asked. In your opinion - and I ask this question to everyone - is it really bearable that, under this electoral law, we have practically held the hearings ourselves, with very few representatives of the majority? The same was true of the general debate in the Commission, almost in solitude. There was no possibility, as has been seen, other than to explain the prejudices and to make a speech for the Group. This is what happened to the Senate of discussion, as to the possibility for every senator to be able to say his own about this bill, about the electoral law, Mr President. I refer here, once again, to Article 72 of the Constitution. Does this seem like an ordinary procedure to you? Is this ordinary? I understand that you are used to it - I tell the representatives of the government - and that you think that the ordinary administration is to vote everything with confidence. But there are limits that cannot be crossed, there are limits to decency. Yet you saw it with constitutional reform: the country told you that it did not agree either on the substance or the method you used. But this did not serve as a lesson to you. And after all this we have come to the point, Mr President, that the general debate is also being bypassed, because you also struggled to hear from some senator who wanted to express his judgment and wanted to do his job. For what have we been elected here, except to say what we think, to express a judgment, to do our duty? And our duty, in a Parliament, is also to intervene! We are not used to keeping silent, but this has become the new slogan of this House. This, Mr President, will once again be a disgrace, which will not be easily erased. Besides, you can't even talk. I now thank you for giving me the floor, but it was our duty not only to radically express our dissent, but to observe and make all the senators observe what was happening and this was not possible. Do you think that at this rate you can go far? At this stage, on the electoral law, in this House we must go and beg the times to be able to intervene on trust, because in theory we are discussing trust, and not on the substance of the law! This is what this Senate has to do with! Mr President, you must remember that Italian citizens have said that the Senate should continue to exist. They didn't say it had to be deleted! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Art.1-MDP and Senator Bulgarelli.]] Instead, he's doing everything he can to shut us up. But know that you will pay a price! Everyone will pay a price! And once again we will pay a price for the credibility of democratic institutions. Mr President, I owed this to you and I owed it to this House. Once again, unfortunately, a horrible page is being written in the history of this unfortunate legislature, because in the end it was a miserable legislature. Just handstrokes! This is the summary of this legislature! [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u88	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the fact that we can discuss confidence in the Government does not restore the vulnus of the cancellation of the general debate on the substance of the measure. This is a very serious wound, because it is necessary to distinguish the object. One thing is the content of the electoral law and the distortions it will inflict in the expression of the will of the people; another thing is that a government demands confidence, which is another violation, just as serious as what should be the normal process of parliamentary procedure. Mr President, at the Conference of the Leaders you said (I do not know if consciously): there will be the first four trusts, then you will resume to vote normally and then you will vote on the trust on Article 6. In this way, you have informally expressed a clear point to everyone: that trust is not the normal vote for an electoral law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Discussions had to be separated: one on the substance and the other on the method. On the method, I would like to point out that we have a government which is reluctant to comply with an obligation under the Accounting Act: that the budget law is presented by 20 October. We have a tax decree, already in force and closely linked to this law, which requires that action be taken and that this Parliament be activated for a provision that is fundamental, not only for the coffers of the State but for so many citizens and businesses who would expect solutions. Well, we have put before us an electoral law of clear plea between parties, in spite of national interest, both in relation to the will of the citizens who have the right to speak at the polls and in relation to the urgency of the economic and financial measures. We should trust this government. We have to give it in a debate on package trust. This undermines citizens' ability to understand what is happening in the classrooms. I repeat that the vulnus from this point of view is not healthy with the granting of a relatively large time of discussion (relatively compared to previous situations). Even though we have five different trusts, put differently on the different articles, we should think that each one will reopen a question and that each one should be discussed separately, as I had asked for. Otherwise, the government could have put a single question of confidence in the whole measure. We know, however, what is the real reason why this was not done: because it would have involved a change in the article and would have brought the measure back to the House, coming to have to vote in that place after the Sicilian elections, which are fundamental. At this point, the Sicilians know that they have in their hands a very important instrument to modify not only the politics of their region but also the Italian politics and to give a football, definitively, to this unfortunate legislature, to this majority against nature, to this failed Government. That is, we would have liked, and we would have had the right, that the discussions on the substance of the law and on the methods of the government, which someone else approached to experiences of dark years, of a twenty years that we thought ended, should be separated. At this point then, after remarking with the calmness of which we are capable... RUSSO (PD). Peace of mind? [[Laughter from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). Here, I see the indecent solvins of those who don't deserve... AIROLA (M5S). Russo, you've made a shameful impression! You can only laugh with that face! [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u89	Let's try to avoid provocation, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u90	Please conclude, Senator Endrizzi. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). President. - I call on you not to allow provocations and ridicules on the part of those who made themselves ridiculous and discredited the entire nation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Having noted these points, which must remain a trace of what has happened in this House, I am asking you, Mr President, as a due act, to publicise the work through the direct resumption at least of the work in the Chamber on Thursday morning, namely explanations of vote and the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u91	The Presidency, while not saying otherwise, grants direct television for explanations of vote on Thursday morning, which will take place from 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u92	I declare open the joint discussion on the issues of trust posed by the Government on the approval, without amendment, of Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of bill No 2941, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u93	Mr President, I had prepared some things to say when I had to speak in general debate and the question of trust had not yet been asked, so I should change the text of the intervention completely because the Government, once again, has usurped the function of Parliament, forgetting that it is an Executive and therefore imposing its will on all the senators present here who represent the people, unlike the Government, because we should remember the fundamentals of things. I therefore open this debate with a very bitter assessment. When we entered the Senate four and a half years ago, we did so for one reason only, as I said once before, and that is because for twenty years those who have been in this Chamber have sucked! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They defended not citizens' rights but the interests of the powerful. In these four and a half years I have had the opportunity to see the limits overcome so many times, so many times that I have now lost count. And it's even worse if I think that before this legislature and before that you, and always you, were here to guarantee this absurd defense of the system. But to me that I am belligerent the word "system" has a very precise meaning and everyone in here knows what that meaning is. The electoral law that you are preparing to vote is, in fact, clearly a gift to the only coalition in the field: the one that fictitiously binds Berlusconi and Salvini. An agreement of course of facade that will last the time to bring out the real protagonist of this umpteenth slut made behind the citizens. The real protagonist of the agreement with the Berlusconi party is Matteo Renzi, always him. He, the secretary of the PD, who moved away from Rome, leaving his goal to bring home the result in exchange for a place in Parliament. This, too, is ridiculous. The one who had claimed that, lost the constitutional referendum, would disappear from the political scene, now turns Italy on a train paid by the Italians through electoral refunds; those refunds that only we have refused. [[Applause from Senator Donno.]] To you, Senators of the Democratic Party, I ask: do you need to prostitute yourself before your head Renzi for having secured a place? Is that what you do? [[Applause from Senator Bottici. Senator Russo's comments.]] Shut up! Once in this House I asked you to rebel, but you did not! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u94	Senator Cioffi, speak to the Assembly and use proper language.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u95	SANTANGELO (M5S). That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. We use proper language for this House. SANTANGELO (M5S). Call him back to order! Stop! MORONESE (M5S). He's the one who provokes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I call you back to order for the second time. CIOFFI (M5S). President, the language used in this House is appropriate to the behaviour of this lousy majority who will approve the draft electoral law! So, it is very appropriate; there would be many other words to say, many others! I once asked you to rebel. You not only didn't do it but you continue to be slaves to the chains that you put on your own. You will still be slaves to people like Clemente Mastella! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the system you have proposed - to go on technical - there are relevant democratic vulnus. I say only two, Mr President: the first relates to the barrier thresholds. Say there's a barrier threshold of three percent, but it's a falsehood. This must be remembered to the citizens: it is a falsehood. In a coalition, those who take between one and three percent give their votes to the parties with which they have piled up. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, with the mechanism by which the vote given to the single candidate also applies to the lists, the threshold is not one percent but even lower. This means that even microscopic groups of specific interest - we could call them the lobbyists of the vote, the lobbyists of this strange democracy - will contribute to the fate of the coalized crowds, because these are: piled up. Politically how will you explain this choice, if not with the will to scrape the bottom of the barrel? The second and final aspect is about electoral programs, this thing that you don't know about. The 5 Star Movement has been working for a year on the writing of a program for Italy, written with the citizens and that will be our only, real business card; the only thing that really matters, what we have to do to raise the fate of this country. We will present this program and if the Italians choose the 5 Star Movement they will have the confidence that that program will be put in place. What do you present to the Italians instead? A pile of lists in contradiction between them that will serve only as a mirror for the lark, but the Italians are not allodles and have a straight back and will prove it to you. The Italians! I want the citizens out here to listen well. What program will be implemented by Renzi with Salvini, with Berlusconi, with Alfano, with Verdini (and who has more)? How can animalists live with hunters? Environmentalists with drillers? At this point I shall end, Mr President, by appealing to the citizens: we need you; we ask you to demonstrate with us, peacefully, in order to make your voice heard. We ask you to bring here, tomorrow, symbolically a white blindfold to put on your eyes. We do not want you blind; they do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Tell him you're not blind and you're not the servants of these filthy parties that do everything except do your own business! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Russo (PD). President, we are in the Senate Chamber. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u96	Let's try not to provoke, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u97	[[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] Senator Cioffi, please, you stopped talking.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u100	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to speak just one minute on the order of business. Our Group has seen today some things we want to keep to the record... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u101	Senator Barani, intervene on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u102	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). We've seen the scranno occupy the second office of the state. We've seen the government taking over. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] We've seen signs and bandages displayed. We've heard a dark language that we don't share. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u103	Senator Barani, intervene on the order of business. He's doing a summary of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u104	[[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Quiet! [[Senator Susta's comments.]] Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). I would ask you, Mr President, to summon the Presidency Council, as would your predecessors De Nicola, Fanfani Colombo, Cossiga, Spadolini... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u105	Thanks for the suggestion. I call on the House to speak properly and I will not tolerate provocations. AIROLA (M5S). Bravo! We continue with the provocations in this House. Since they have not heard anything in the Commission and in this House, at least they do not provoke it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please! Senator Fattori is registered to speak. FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I give up my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u106	Mr President, I was told I was 12th. MARTON (M5S). President, you changed the order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The order hasn't changed. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I have seen the debate on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and I regret that all your arguments, albeit sensible, are not taken into account anywhere. I wonder, then, if it is not a term that comes from the preventive judgment, but from a prejudice that you have as political parties and not as individuals who expose their own ideas and reasonings. The absolute lack of listening from the Government means that the preliminary constitutionality presented in this Assembly is only a ritual passage that risks being useless. Maybe one day the Constitutional Court will repeat the same arguments to dismiss this electoral law and everyone will be surprised. We start in 2013. I, but also you, have been elected by a law declared partially unconstitutional, but it goes without saying that the task of this legislature is alone - or it would be Prudently necessary - of ordinary administration. This is what the Court says: ordinary administration. These five years we should have done this, ordinary administration. After all, what have we really done as an ordinary? Nothing. Almost nothing. Few laws, perhaps empty, like the last on sign language, a measure full of beautiful words and principles, but without a euro to promote the true and full integration of deaf or deaf people. I forgot the Renzi government's masterpiece, the reform of the procurement code; a reform written with my feet, which has complicated the lives of our honest businesses and has helped chaos for the benefit of the untransparent ones. This great reform of the Renzi government has reached the wool thread of the expiry of the terms imposed by Europe, but it has already suffered the shame of two decrees of wrong corrige, of which the first with 180 corrections, not only formal. And the companies that already come under the weight of an elephant bureaucracy tell you thank you. Instead you have presented decrees-law à gogo, mostly without the urgency required by the Constitution: we have suffered a burst from the Government, an infinite burst. Finally, you have issued a tax decree-law, which hides leaps and new taxes, which you do not have the courage to bring out in the budget law, which instead fills with marks, with that little money that remains after the sterilization of VAT increases, but only for 2018. Who here had the courage to make a good reform of the land registry? Nobody! You have hit the bottom even more with the various measures on banks, which have seen thousands of small savers deprived of their life savings, while the perpetrators of the various bank cracks are still at large. You wanted to restore the system, but you didn't even have the courage to make a real Commission of Inquiry. It's just the scarecrow of a committee of inquiry. Then we witnessed the becero attempt at constitutional reform and I remember that we should have done five years of ordinary administration. Therefore, this attempt at constitutional reform, which has committed Parliament for innumerable months, with consequent costs for the citizens, fortunately failed on 4 December, thanks to a snap of pride of the Italians, who rejected to the sender a constitutional law written badly. Finally there was the Italicum, also imposed with confidence and then rejected by the Constitutional Court. Now you want to do the same thing with the Rosatellum? Ordinary administration? Let's not make people smile. We are here, faced with yet another forcing, with yet another confidence (well over 50), with which you want to bring home an electoral law at all costs: and what an electoral law! What is an electoral law? The electoral law is the one that determines how we decide and who has to decide. So, what is this, if not an act of extreme discernment? The electoral law must be the result of a healthy and democratic process, even of complex reasoning, but it must not produce a cryptic norm, to the advantage of either side, and to the detriment of the no longer decisive Italian people. It is the fundamental law, which regulates the democracy of the country. There may also be very strong conflicts around a subject, but here we are in Parliament and we need respect and dialogue, but unfortunately today, here, I do not see either: I do not see respect and I do not see dialogue. There is no right and wrong, but there are different objectives and priorities for pursuing a common good. If the objective of this law had been decided with respect for all and with clear objectives, we would have no doubt about voting on it and we could all decide, in the name of what our ancestors called democracy, deciding to vote on the best electoral law and deciding to vote on the best candidates. This is not possible with the electoral law when we examine it. The only option left to decide would be the primary elections, and I have tabled amendments in this respect, but the process of improvement is prevented by the opposition of the question of trust. In the name of what is being slaughtered today? I am sorry, but behind this supposed representativeness, here, for everyone - except perhaps me and Senator Mussini - there is the "re-crave" - that meticulous calculation, according to the most accurate surveys, to find a way back to Parliament. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you are leaving the go-ahead to absolute evil to reposition each one of you in your place. Lack of respect and lack of dialogue are absolute evil. Not being able to decide together, not being able to vote together gives all the green light to absolute evil. You seem to be prosthetic toward the lonely and greedy desire to manage power, without having any ability to evaluate who we really are giving the reins of power. You are looking at your Trojan horse and I assist helplessly to this fact. I am sorry that my amendments, which proposed something modern: electronic voting, will be dismissed. All silent, meek, obedient, to all of us I truly wish a good "re-scrane," but Hannah Arendt, in her "The banality of evil" has well described these processes, in which those who assist remain silent, not expressing their own idea, giving consent and obedience only for a "re-scrane," certainly does not have a fantastic future. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u109	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I inform you that the list of senators registered to speak at this time is not yet complete, so the Groups do not know what order they will take. The only list published outside the Chamber is the one prior to the imposition of trust. Please send us the list. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As other names are gradually inserted, the order is likely to change. SANTANGELO (M5S). But how do we work? The order must be made before the discussion, as it has always been, not during the same, otherwise the order skips. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The list is ready. You'll have it soon. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate represents a significant moment in this parliamentary term not only for the very purpose of the measure, but also because the related discussions and some changes made are the most eloquent metaphor of the political moment and the superficial arguments that are characterizing it, but these premises also lead to other reflections. The electoral law comes from a clear premise to all: the urgency to harmonize two schemes for the Chamber and Senate and to overcome the Consultellum in order to provide a clear application framework not only for the political scenario, but also for voters. The importance of this text is therefore far beyond the urgency of reforming the existing electoral law, which has led to political-government experiences that do not need to be further commented on. The priority was to create an electoral law where - in fact - it was missing. How could one be objectively opposed to this principle? Therefore I have always been of the idea that it was urgent to adopt an electoral law absolutely necessary quickly, also because the times impose synthesis and order, after the phase of the parliamentary boutade, where there have alternated frank shooters, provocations and amending impasses, characterized also by a certain weariness of the positions. Moreover, if an overall analysis cannot be made of the legitimacy of a systemic electoral intervention a few months after the end of the parliamentary term, it is certainly more difficult to understand why a legislative intervention of urgency - almost buffering - must become a vehicle for much more complex reforms than agreed upon. This lightness risks rendering, in some ways, senseless the law itself, compromising an original validity. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to the surprise raid on the rules governing voting in the foreign constituency, which has been discussed quite a bit at the media level. Although the amendments related to a kind of bill of exchange were merely framed, and in fact all the rest of it was debased, it was a complex discipline, for those who did not know it, which was the subject of an investigation in 2001. I do not want to dwell on the significance of voting abroad, but I cannot help but call it a point of arrival of a path of historical, social and political awareness and self-consciousness that lasted decades, which has restored the balance of mutual knowledge and attention between citizens inside and outside the national borders, leading our country, after decades of massive emigration, to deal with its own history. The so-called Tremaglia law is not a simple set of rules: it is first of all a historical-political path that has led to a constitutional reform with its own ratio, and that after just sixteen years seems that Parliament has already removed. What is contained in Article 6 of the draft law is not at all residual, but decisive. Overcoming the bond of residence in the foreign constituency for candidates is more than a legislative correction aimed at restoring a supposed reciprocity, as has been said by someone, but it is a reversal of the rule of law, principle and common sense. And I would be really curious to understand what complex scientific reasoning led to this result. Not only because this degrades the historical-political path to which I referred, but because, with a brush stroke, we also overcome the constitutional principles that at the time decreed its legitimacy. As has already been pointed out, the legislative investigation of 2001 was also enriched by the contribution of the opinion of authoritative constitutionalists who, reread today, are of a disarming topicality, and who all oriented in the same direction. Since there have been previous constitutional revisions with which the foreign constituency was established, the limitation of the passive electorate not only does not conflict with the principles of equality and freedom, but is the logical consequence, necessary, of the constitutional dictation. Far be it from me to carry out a deepening of the constitutional analysis, not being this the most congenial seat, but I can not fail to mention some passages of opinions: for example the opinion of Professor Baldassarre (called on several occasions also by my colleague Micheloni), who highlighted how the ratio of the norm was to ensure that Italians resident abroad are represented by people who share their same condition and their own experience, avoiding - and I emphasize this point with emphasis - that they are colonized by candidates parachuted from the national territory. In addition, the opinion pointed out that the rule was intended to achieve the constitutional interest relating to the genuine expression of freedom of vote and to the effective and equal exercise of the same freedom. Among other things, Professor Fusaro's opinion was added that, among other things, he pointed out how daring it was to discuss the reasonableness of a rule that wants to introduce a guarantee of the territorial connection between voters and elected members of the very particular foreign constituency. And he further stressed the risk of applications having an effect that could empty the very reason for the establishment of the foreign constituency, leading to the election of personalities without any connection with their representatives and difficult to guarantee that specific type of representative relationship that the constitutional modification intended to make possible. It is worth saying, therefore, that the combined arrangement of constitutional illegitimacy and historical-political inconsistency makes this bill a dangerous precedent. These are the premises, but let's go specifically. The changes made to Article 8 of the so-called Tremaglia law are a breach of the system, and I say this with knowledge of the case. We can easily imagine what dynamics the hypothetical colonizing candidatures will have: I think of the referents of criminal groups active abroad, already operating on the front of the co-opting of votes, through the regional communities that communicate us that they are already experiencing this pressure, passing by pseudo-entrepreneurs conniving and operating at the limits of liceity, that hold the economic tools to support the substantial electoral campaigns across borders. This without neglecting the well-known faces of entertainment and art, of which some names already begin to circulate, which have a relevance with politics and the interests of the compatriots equal to zero. How could this operation be defined, if not a radical delegitimization of the vote of almost 4 million citizens in the world? The desire to undermine the right of representation of residents across borders certainly does not begin today. The lack of feedback, the downsizing of the funds, the rationalization of the consular network are certainly clear signs, which take on a perhaps more evident and decisive significance with this latest legislative sinking, which is the ultimate act of dismantling the foreign distribution and its raison d'être. The amendment in this draft law was justified by the urgency of re-establishing reciprocity between citizens in Italy and those residing abroad, but an extensive interpretation of this same reciprocity would impose something more on those who fought for this principle. In fact, one might wonder: in the name of this supposed reciprocity you had the objective of intervening on discipline, but why do you not take all the responsibilities? You have left to the original discipline the most comfortable things for someone, such as the burden of the option for citizens living abroad and the existence of a different electoral system based on proportional preference. It would have been consistent to fully approve the systems. Perhaps in that case the concept of reciprocity would have made sense, although not justified, as has already been said. You have preferred to take the most complicated and indefensible path to make a change that has only low political motives, neglecting the outcomes that all this will have in terms of constitutional coherence, credibility and historical respect. Turning a historic conquest of democracy into an empty container through which to convey a new political gabella is a remarkable undertaking. You must assume your responsibilities for all of this. The bitterness remains for not having blown this raid to the House, in a necessary law, but unsustainable, as far as the foreign constituency is concerned. I am sure, by making sure that the legitimacy of what has been introduced will be properly contradicted in the appropriate and appropriate fora. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u111	There is in the gallery a delegation of ELSA (European Association of Students in Law), section of Catania, which follows our work and which we greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u112	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u113	Mr President, it is important for me to speak this evening. For what has happened today, I feel the need to bear witness to the fact that I do not agree with the choices made either in the method or in the substance. We'll go to the history books. This day will be remembered in the manuals and it will be said that it was the first time that, on a draft electoral law so delicate and important for the relationship between citizens and institutions, the government placed the trust twice, in the House and the Senate. I mean, I didn't agree on that, and I disagree. Nor do I agree with many of the contents of this law, which is done in a prodigious way just a few months after the elections. From this point of view, I wonder how European there is in this behavior, how much of belonging to Europe we bring to this House after Europe has explicitly said that it is not the case to legislate just a few months after the elections in the electoral field. Mr President, the other point that makes me very perplexed has already been pointed out and was also present in the preliminary constitutionality that we have noted as a Group. One of the biggest problems we have is to restore confidence, a link between citizens and institutions, between the Italian people and this Parliament, which has often been distracted, and this branch of Parliament, which has also tried to close in such a dignified way. Mr President, the proposed bill is an electoral bill that does not give the citizen the opportunity to understand who he is electing, what it means to have a cross drawn on a name of the candidate in the single-member college and the reverberation he has on the candidates in the plurinomial districts and in the small lists on the card. In my opinion, this is a natural problem which marks a great deal of the relationship between citizens, politics, institutions and participation. Now, Mr President, I would like to insist on two elements, the first of which concerns participation. One of the important elements in the discussion of an electoral law, at a stage like this, is how citizens can participate in the selection of candidates for elections. In this sense we had a series of experiences at regional level: I think of the region from which I come, Tuscany, which had the primary planned by regional law, publicly funded, and which allowed a certain selection with a fairly wide participation. Another way is to find new ways of selecting candidates for lists, and in my opinion it would have been important to value the way citizens organize themselves to participate in the life of the country. However, this was not possible, Mr President. There is no mechanism of this kind, in fact there are small blocked lists. The other fundamental point on which I would like to focus is gender equality, which is also not included in the draft law under discussion. There are three points we can think about. In order for the small proportional lists blocked to be properly composed, it is said that there must be gender alternation; however, at the only point where this is envisaged, there is the possibility that the list will be declared inadmissible if gender alternation is missed. However, there are also two other modes: that of the uninomial colleges, in which it is established that a gender cannot be represented for more than 60%, and that of the lists in the plurinomial colleagues, with respect to which it is established that in the leading position there must be the same ratio 40-60 percent among the genera present. The point is that in these last two cases (single-name colleges and headmasters in multi-name colleges) if this does not happen, it is detected but not sanctioned. There is nothing, there is no cancellation of the excessive candidatures of one sex or the other, and in my opinion this is an element of sloppiness on the one hand, but it is also a clear political choice on the other, Mr President. We are a country that also in this way marks its element of backwardness in issues of gender representation and equality. At European level, the equality of representation is assumed by many movements of women, but also by many governments, such as the implementation of a human right, and we are still doing the 40-60 percent report and if it is violated nothing is sanctioned. Mr President, there is another point to stress. In the culture of many movements, but also of many governments, there has been a constant elaboration of what participation in the elective assemblies of women means and a kind of critical threshold has been identified necessary for this presence to have effects on the life of the country. This critical threshold is above 40%. I think that our country would really need it, because if there had been a massive presence of women in its institutions and elective assemblies, it would be more modern and concrete and - above all - it would not be a country where women receive a pension equal to half that of men, nor would there be such high percentages of female unemployment. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u114	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this parliamentary term the issue of the electoral law has been dealt with as never before, also because of the occurrence of new facts such as intervention by the Constitutional Court in this matter. In particular, the procedures of the Constitutional Court's own action have indeed also demonstrated its heavy limitations. In fact, in the absence of the measure that we are preparing to take, the sentences restore an electoral system of dubious applicability. We are therefore in a prepared House on this issue and, in my opinion, this should allow for a full confrontation of awareness. Being at the disposal of all authoritative reflections and, in my opinion, concentrated, held in the hearings in the Commission (such as that of Carlo Fusaro), I will limit myself to a few points in order to give a sense of the fundamental choices that constitute the coherence of this draft electoral law. The electoral law must transform the vote of about 47 million Italians into 630 MPs and 315 senators. In this it would be desirable for there to be possibilities for the formation of politically homogeneous majorities to ensure a stable government in the country. In other words, electoral law is an instrument that strikes a balance between representation and governance. After the referendums of 1991 and 1993 the path begins in this sense and the conviction is strengthened that the citizen should vote knowing first the comrades who propose to govern, eliminating also the preferences that have always led to the prevalence of pathological aspects. Before that time, the citizen voted satisfied with the party that responded 100% to his expectations, thinking that he would then implement the proposed electoral programme, except then see that the day after the elections that same party went to sit down with others to agree on things other than those promises. Well, now the context in which we find ourselves is that of after 4 December 2016, a given watershed. We knew that it would be in any case, but in the event that it happened it is in a sense that it essentially concerns the electoral law. Having not changed the parliamentary system which would have given a fully majority profile to the system, those objectives which I have just stated must now be pursued differently through the electoral law. One could say that, given the situation, the simplest choice would have been to return to the so-called Mattarella law. We have always declared it and we have also proposed it on the right and especially on the left. Ask Mr Giachetti how the debate on the so-called Mattarella law went in this parliamentary term. There were no votes to approve the Mattarella law and there were no votes for any other majority laws. After a harsh political contrast, which has succumbed to the idea of polarization on the main parties, but also the concept of governability, the political system inevitably turned on proportional and coalition logic, seeking an agreement on this system. This, the Rosato law, is a simple law. We vote on the coalitions and we vote on the parties that make them up, who take responsibility for the credibility of the group and the people who represent it, without a vote of preference, as for twenty-five years now. A predominantly proportional system, with a majority with single-member colleges: the coalition of parties is clearly recognizable in the card and is clearly linked to the single-member candidate. If someone does not want to make coalitions, there will be no doubt about the party on which the only vote will be cast to the single candidate. On this law there is a large majority - the illuminated scoreboard for the counter-test of the vote on the prejudices showed it clearly - that goes beyond that of Government; those who support it have found an average point on which to converge, giving up much of what they would have preferred. More preferable, I would say much more, does not have the votes to be approved, but what we are about to vote improves responsibly the inconsistent framework restored by the judgments of the Court. Equally inconsistent are the criticisms made by those who oppose it. From all the individual criticisms heard in these days there is no alternative law that is together and much less that it succeeds in being approved: the majority prize of Brothers of Italy, the high thresholds of MDP, all the systems and their opposite proposed by the 5 Star Movement, as evidenced by the amendments tabled (majority, proportional, majority prize). With this law we respond seriously to the indications of the Constitutional Court and to the expectations of the Head of State. And, precisely because it is a simple law, citizens will be able to use it to give a clear indication of the future of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u116	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u117	Mr President, the draft electoral law throws me into a paradox. On the one hand, I share everything and on the other, I share nothing. We are at the end of the parliamentary term and there is a proposal in this House to overcome the current Consultellum, which would be the worst solution, not only because of its serious anomalies, but because of Parliament's final delegitimisation. If that were all, I could only vote in favour. But I can't help but wonder, how did we get here? And above all, with what institutional forces? And what deceptions do these standards contain? The legislature closes as it had opened, with unusual rifts to the republican style. The electoral law was to be passed immediately after the ruling of the Court on Porcellum. Instead, contrary to common sense, he entrusted himself with the difficult task of rewriting the Constitution to a parliament elected by unconstitutional law. It was the beginning of all subsequent mistakes and they bear the responsibility of many, both those who now rule in the parties, and those who were then in charge. Today we cannot accept the vote of confidence on the electoral law. Do not invoke the case of the fraud law, because then the President of the Senate rejected the request for a vote of confidence and then resigned from office. He was an old liberal, as there are few today in Italy. The other precedent is Italicum, which deserved only oblivion, at least for a sense of modesty. All the inhibiting brakes have fallen: even the motion against the Bank of Italy confirms that even the most inconvenient proposals can be put to the vote. Anything can now be done if it is functional for a purpose. The political class is no longer able to give itself limits freely, to stop before it appears wrinkled, to avoid what is inappropriate, even if it is not forbidden. Political drives lose all respect, undressing institutional forms. If there is no sense of modesty, there is also a risk of losing the duty of responsibility. The limit of politics is the essence of every Constitution. It had never been possible to use the vote of confidence in agreement with a part of the opposition to ratify an agreement reached by the heads of parties outside Parliament, without proper investigation in the parliamentary groups and committees. The vote of confidence was never used for a trivial issue of extra-parliamentary agenda, an obsession with ending before the Sicilian elections. The vote of confidence here today does not define the border between the majority and the minority but shows the split between the parliamentarians, who are only called to ratify, and the majority and minority party leaders, who decide for themselves. They also have the right to include in the electoral law the unprecedented status of head of the party, until they undermine the prerogatives of the Quirinale over the office of government. Yet, they should be strong leaders. That's what they've been telling each other over the years. They seemed capable of large enterprises, prosthetics towards popular plebiscites. However, they cannot even convince their Members. They resort to legal constraints because they have deserted the internal democracy of their parties. I'm being asked for discipline today. As a senator, I was only able to follow the debate on electoral law in the newspapers. The Group to which I belong, but I think it also applies to someone else, has never been brought together except to ratify the final outcome; at other times, the senators would have been involved in politics even if the law had been framed in the House. For the first time in Republican times the Senate is not able to discuss and amend an electoral law according to normal procedures. If this is the case, it will end up giving reason to those who proposed to delegate legislative activity to the meeting of the Leaders. With the same logic the Porcellum was approved to entrust to the party leaders the nomination of parliamentarians, de facto subtracting the choice from the voters. Yet - I address myself to the senators of the right - I must recognize, not without suffering, that that of Berlusconi was a far-sighted invention, because it traced a path that no other political force could abandon. All the draft electoral laws that arrived at the Assembly's examination in this legislature, even the fake German model shared by the 5 Star Movement, had a single firm point: the weakening of the electoral power in the selection of the elected. That innovation, as far-sighted in its effects as it was wretched in its contents, took on a structural trend in the politics of our times. The media leader seeks direct legitimacy with his own people and cannot tolerate the existence of another channel of direct legitimacy between elected and elected. The man in command alone needs a weak and discredited Parliament. It comes from above, not from below, the populistic corrosion of the institutions. Porcellum is the most important political event of the Italian politics of this early century. He broke the elect-elector relationship that was nourished, albeit with many limits, in the Mattarellum colleges. Since then the separation of the political class from the real country has been accentuated and the controversy on the caste has begun which has led to the destructure of the short bipolarism. It would be time for a turning point, and instead we continue in the old road. More, voters are deceived three times. The first deception is in the chaining of the vote between single and proportional. Supporting the college candidate, the voter is forced to vote some parties without having chosen them. The second deception is in the coalition, which only serves to collect votes but will never become a government alliance. They promote many lists of local areas or particularistic topics that will strengthen the consensus of the leader, even without a programmatic proposal of coalition. The outcome will be a more fragmented and ungovernable Parliament. The third trick is to vote without knowing all the effects of the vote. The rules are so confusing that even the electoral office can equip itself with experts to interpret them. But electoral rules should be easy for citizens to understand. I cannot approve this law which preserves Italian politics in the swamp of the last decade. To get out of it you had to cancel forever the logic of the Porcellum, of the blocked lists and also of the preferences. A direct relationship between elected and electors had to be rebuilt, linking each member to a small college like a city district or a union of municipalities. An assembly of more than 600 Members of Parliament linked to small colleges would be a House esteemed by the citizens, sovereign in national politics, authoritative among the European institutions. It would be the beginning of a new season of Italian democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Maggio, Liuzzi and Bocchino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u118	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u119	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us say no, proudly not to the new electoral law, the Rosatellum, the Imbroglioncellum or the Verdinellum, to say the least. The no of Article 1 is an outrage, first of all in the method used: an electoral law passed five months after the general elections, in that area of Cesarini where Europe itself tells us that we must not proceed to the change of the rules of the game, and moreover by imposing at first reading the trust both in the House and in the Senate, realizing an institutional violence towards the Parliament unprecedented throughout the history of Italy. I assure you that this passage will end in the history manuals. You are writing a page of constitutional culture of which, sooner or later, you will have to be ashamed. You are betraying those principles that are in the Charter of the Democratic Party's values and in the history of the Italian left. There will also be a reason if from 1861 until today no government - liberal, fascist, or democratic - under the monarchy or under the Republic has ever dared to impose trust in both branches of Parliament. By the way, you are creating a dangerous precedent that is like putting into practice a real dictatorship of the majority: after you any government will feel authorized to put trust in any electoral law a few months after the elections, making the majority of government coincide with the future but next political coalition. And if the law also had elements of unconstitutionality, little bad because the judgment of the Supreme Court would intervene after - even many years later - and meanwhile Parliament will have formed by virtue of that arrogance, in the image and likeness of the interests of a single part. That's exactly what's going on in the last few hours. Time has been wasted - as has already happened with the inauspicious experience of Italicum - to create the emergency conditions that impose the haste and, therefore, the confidence. There are three structural limits, according to Article 1 of this law, some of which have a clear profile of unconstitutionality that contributes to increasing the discredit of the parliamentary institution in front of public opinion, because after Porcellum and Italicum there are two without three. The first limit concerns the permanence of a Parliament by a majority of nominations, chosen by the head of shift, with a serious violation of the principle of representation. To err is human, but to persevere is diabolical. Since 2006, Italian parliamentarians have been co-opted and this has helped to increase the gap between citizens and Parliament, by throwing petrol on the fire of anti-politics and anti-system forces that - not surprisingly - have prospered over the last twelve years. The appointment of a Member of Parliament expropriates the citizen of a supreme right of choice, transforming it into a simple power of ratification. And with respect to the chief of duty - the great appointee - establishes a dialectic between fidelity and betrayal - I say this to the Parliament of the 101, dear colleagues - which amplifies the transformation and remains entirely internal to the Palace, to the political class, which at this point is rightly considered a separate caste and closed in its privileges, without representation. The second limit concerns the bottom-up fishing of the vote: a sort of electoral supermarket with which you pay one and take three. Here - in my opinion - is a possible profile of unconstitutionality of the Rosatellum: the citizen's vote turns into a ball of pinballs, in which the initial intentions and wills of the elector risk having practical consequences so distant and evanescent that they are betrayed. The third point concerns the absence of an incentive to govern and the clear choice, with minimum and inconsistent thresholds - from one per cent of the owl lists to three per cent - to fragment as much as possible the next Parliament, to further degrade and weaken it; a functional poison - this is a question - to ensure a fragile and mediocre governability; a minority government between Renzi and Berlusconi, which will not be able to live up to the problems of Italy, but only to guarantee the interests of the faction of two groups of power. Take a moment, ladies and gentlemen: in two years Renzi has passed from three different phases that clearly testify that he does not have a plan for Italy and for the quality of its democracy, but only a spasmodic will to resist the power, despite the numerous denials of the vote of the Italians, before and after December 4. In a first phase the mantra was to know the very evening of the election who was the winner, when Renzi and PD thought they were them. In a second phase everything was done to change the Italicum - of course by voting yes to the referendum - but by eliminating the ballot, when it was understood that that fateful evening the winners could have been the others, namely the 5 Stars or the right. Now, instead, we want a law that does not give any winners, so as to make the hug inevitable with Berlusconi and Verdini. For this reason, the Rosatellum is an act of force and arrogance, perpetrated, however, by a weak and in crisis partycracy. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, broad agreements are not a result - bitter and obligatory - of the electoral result, but rather a preventive choice, sought and desired even when drafting the same law. Here lies the great deception of the Rosatellum, which is the story of a great sunset of Berlusconism andrenzism together, which the Italians will be able to judge and punish in the next elections. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u120	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary term that is about to end has been a strange one. The 17th legislature, which was almost dead, seemed to have only lasted at the beginning as long as it took to convene new elections, overwhelmed by an electoral result that proved to be a real earthquake for the traditional bipolar system. Then, however, there was the Letta Government that had to last until the end of the Italian semester, and instead Renzi arrived and the legislature had the aspiration to become constituent. We know, however, how the referendum ended and we know how two electoral laws - one adopted by this Parliament, which I personally did not vote for - ended up being unconstitutional. And so now we are faced with the latest acts of a legislature that has not been able to give a solution to the new tripolar structure of the Italian party system, and that is content to limit the damage that, from the point of view of electoral legislation, has produced in recent years: from the transitional legislature to the transitional legislature, one could say; a transition to a hypothetical Third Republic which, however, would once again be born without a real constitutional reform, but only through electoral legislation and an earthquake in the political offer; a Third Republic that, among other things, risks being much like the First. The electoral law we are discussing seems to be the result of the last phase of the legislature, followed by the rejection of constitutional reform and the decision of the Constitutional Court on Italicum. On the other hand, if there were a greater sense of responsibility in this Parliament and there was no political force that confused the normal parliamentary dialectic and the political compromise with the incitement, we could have found wider, and perhaps better, agreements to work more reasonably, and not reduced ourselves to adopting a new law a few months after the ballot box. When you change the rules a few months after the vote, it has already been wrong, whatever the final outcome of the debate. Let us remember in this regard the recommendations of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe on electoral matters: we should not change the electoral law to one year, and therefore, even more so, just a few months after the next elections. When this happens, political forces inevitably end up studying it hand polls. And it is undeniable that this bill has opted within it for some technical choices aimed at benefiting those who in fact support and want to approve this law. The law in question, in order to enter into the matter, does no more damage than those that would have done other electoral systems. In such a tripolar system, given the current data and polls, the Rosatellum will not give a majority of government that will correspond to one of the deployments that will appear to the voters. But, with all the simulations done in these months, none of the proposals made gave a different outcome. It changes little, in terms of the "Government" chosen on the day of the elections, between this law and the options advanced in recent months. We have moved from a system that gave the certainty of having a majority in the Chamber of Deputies, at any cost of disproportionality (the Italicum), to a law that gives us the certainty that we do not have majorities in both branches of Parliament. In this regard, look at the grid proposed by D'Alimonte on the site "cise.luiss.it" to immediately have an idea of how difficult it is to have a parliamentary majority without an electoral consensus close to 50%; threshold that will reasonably not be reached either by the center-right, or by the center-left, or, let alone, by a party that is not of center, right-wing and left-wing. Perhaps it would have been appropriate to maintain a small award of governability, perhaps even only in the House, just to give voters a power of direction in the formation of post-election governments, but it was decided otherwise. We can say, however, that we have heard so much praise for the democracy of alternation, about the need to overcome the season of broad understanding - a democratic idea for which it was necessary at any cost to approve the Italicum - which today appears to be a great conceptual leap to discuss a law that in some of its choices is clearly referred to a consensual logic and post-election coalition governments. Just think of the caution with which we talk about coalitions: only one third of the seats, without a common programme, without the indication of a political coalition leader. They objectively apply electoral cartels aimed at obtaining more seats. For God's sake, if we want them to be honest and consistent with what is likely to be necessary after the elections: that is, to dissolve the electoral coalitions to give a government to this country. And then the choice of the weak link between the coalized forces before the vote is honesty towards the citizens. But there is the doubt that the coalitions so thought to pass to history as a legacy of a finished season, unless the Rosatellum - as I believe - will actually have short life and, at the very moment that the party system will feel sufficiently safe from further earthquakes, it will return to increase the majority imprint in order to facilitate the traditional alternation between center-left and center-right. We'll see. Today we find ourselves without alternatives. However, the laws of the Council should be harmonised and this Parliament should always be called upon to do so, manifesting the same political will that led to the draft law under discussion today. Therefore, even those who believe that we should start from the laws of the Council should admit that the final result would not have been very far from what we are voting for. The Rosatellum may perhaps be understood, from a certain point of view, as the harmonization of the two laws that emerged from the Constitutional Court's judgments: we had a substantially proportional system with potential majority correction in the House of Deputies - the prize was difficult to obtain, but it was present - and actual majority correction in the Senate, with the threshold at 8%. Even with the Rosatellum we have a proportional system, with a small majority corrective, represented by 33 percent of single-member colleges. There were coalitions in the Senate and not in the House and with the Rosatellum we have coalitions that - as we have already said - are rather weak. We have a reasonable threshold of 3% and, for the rest, we are faced with a proportional system with correctives, exactly as is the installation of the electoral system out of the sentences, with the considerable advantage of having an almost equal system between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, as everyone has requested. As far as gender representation is concerned, it has been harmonised, but perhaps in a sui generis way, as other Members have already said. The 5 Star Movement cries out for scandal, but in fact it does so because it believes that the bill on our examination can harm it. In fact, this is only partly true: it will depend a lot on the voter's strategic behavior, which at the moment is difficult to predict. The question of preferences remains on the table, an issue which in recent decades has undoubtedly known alternate fortunes: from an anomaly, from a profound evil of Italian politics - to a referendum in 1991 - to a prince instrument for the defence of the power of choice of citizens. On preferences you may have different opinions, but surely the short list blocked is not unconstitutional and can also be interpreted as a coherent choice in a mixed system, where the choice of candidate near the territory of the voter is offered through the one-name colleges: justified, legitimate and coherent choice, therefore, if it is not that the law does not allow the split vote and the voter is faced with a package to choose, which binds the choice to the list to a predetermined candidate in the one-name college. Objectively, this is the most contradictory point of the law and it should be changed, but obviously it cannot be done, since the question of trust has been raised. It is very difficult to justify the decision to deny the divided vote to the citizens: we lose the ratio of having a mixed system and the single colleges, even if - even in the case of the split vote as in that of preferences - we should not exacerbate the souls for instruments that then, where allowed, are not used by most citizens. One example of all is the virtuous Germany, in which, on average, it votes separately no more than 20% of the voters. In Italy of preferences, the common citizen generally votes the symbol, without indicating any preference, even when it was planned for the general elections. There are also regional differences on which we could make further reflections, but perhaps we would extend too long: when there were preferences we had good examples of the so-called exchange vote in some regions of Italy. In short, we are voting on a law that will not solve the problems of governability or, at least, not in the sense that now we tend to give this word - that is, we will not have a clear winner on the day of the elections, with a strong majority - and that it should not incur constitutional defects and harmonise the laws in force for the elections of the two Chambers. These days we can say that it is not little. It is not the law that we in Italy would have liked to vote in this legislature, also because we risk being bearers of water to a coalition, without having any benefit, but it is the least that, at this point, even out of a sense of responsibility, we feel to vote. It has been said several times that there would be a do ut des in the choice of who votes on the draft law under consideration. But as far as I'm concerned, I don't owe anyone anything, and I didn't ask anyone for anything in return. I'm not a pay one and take three. Probably sold the bear's skin. In any case, I feel free and aware of the choice I will make. I think it's right to agree to this kind of law, although it's not the best of the laws. And I want to reassure Senator Bignami that, in her speech, she said that everyone has an interest in voting on this bill, because they want to be re-elected. I wouldn't find anything wrong with it: I don't find the great attachment to the chair so serious that it is repeatedly pointed to as guilt. I'm a nurse, and if I said I wanted to keep doing my job, no one would ever say that I'm attached to that place of mine, which is said often and willingly by the politician. I believe that many people who want to remain in office are now attacked not for who knows what reason, but because they want to continue to do this type of work because they believe in institutions and want to carry on their goals and values. I believe that there are people who positively want to stay here and be re-elected, and not for other underground reasons, of exchange, corruption, concussion or for any other reason. In any case - as I have said several times - for me Miss Italia ends here, as they say. I have had the great honour and also the great burden of being in this House and I hope that this type of electoral law will still be able to give a future stability in the next 18th legislature to the country. We members of the Italy component of the Misto Group's Values will therefore give our assent to the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from Senators Orellana and Collina]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u122	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u123	Mr President, I would have liked to have spoken in this House about the substance of the changes to the electoral system of the House and the Senate of the Republic. I would have liked to talk about the changes that lead to the determination of single and plurinomial electoral colleges of a kind quite different from those provided for by Mattarellum, indeed of a nature contrary to its approach, which represented an electoral law with a single prevalence. I wanted to make clear in this House the consequences for the country of a mixed electoral system, which does not offer the electorate the opportunity to vote separately between a single college and a list. We do not believe at all that there can be a relationship between these coalition lists and the best governability in the country. But you have also used in this House the ignoble instrument of trust, an instrument applied in one Parliamentary Chamber after it has already been applied in the other. And it is all too obvious that it was not intended to ensure a faithful representation of the voter's will and the priority interest is to be able to freely use the votes expressed in individual colleges with a free distribution at national level. With regard to the content of the electoral law, there are many elements of dubious constitutional legitimacy and it is certainly serious to commit, only a few months after the vote, to define a text that can be said not wanted by a large majority of parties, but rather welcomed by the majority of parties that find in it the greatest guarantee to secure places for their favorite and to maintain a political-social system built for more than twenty years, which is manifesting the worst in this last legislature. I do not want to continue with a debate on this matter, because you have not given us the opportunity to discuss and amend the substance, to correct the distortions and to put forward the improvement proposals. I give up my speech, aware, unfortunately, that for this umpteenth regulatory abuse carried out in this House there will be no scrutiny of the referendum vote that has already blocked on December 4 the wicked attempt to turn the Senate into a useless Chamber of Regions, pretending a savings that would never have been there. But popular sovereignty will still be able to demonstrate its will, especially if the abstentionists, who have always been the true majority of the country, will return to vote with disgust for these practices continued to use political power in order to reach agreements between the parties, without any respect for the citizens and their needs. The awareness of the population exists and has manifested it reaching to launch an appeal a few hours ago, despite you continue to deny it and contain it, avoiding that our interventions are listened to by young people and journalists, as you have done with the change of interventions already foreseen in the calendar, modified with continuous insertions without logic. I repeat that the awareness of citizenship is there and is taking note of it also Mr. Renzi, who toured with a train, in imitation of the 5 Star Movement. But the original is always better than faggot imitations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u124	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u125	Mr President, I consider the debate over the last few hours and, more generally, the way in which the majority and the government have decided to make electoral law the sad, and perhaps inevitable, epitaph of this legislature. It is a sad unacceptable epitaph in the method - as has been mentioned by several colleagues - and I must not add any more words about how this choice marks a precedent and leave the name of this XVII legislature written as responsible for having - unfortunately, too - inaugurated a very dangerous precedent. And it is also unacceptable on the substance, because you of the majority in the government have done an electoral reform that is the opposite, the opposite of what would be needed today. As I have told you several times in this House and I repeat to you again this evening, even though there are few of us - perhaps not even the debate is more interested in this Senate Chamber - you are really joking with fire. The country is marked so deeply by the social and economic crisis; it is a country marked by the moral crisis; a country that no longer recognizes its ruling classes and sees an increasingly large part of Italian citizens not even going to vote or vote parties and movements that have political programs of great dispute and great break compared to what has happened in recent years. Well, in this profound crisis you would have had an obligation, during the 17th legislature, to try to respond to the elements of crisis. You would have had the political obligation, perhaps even moral, to understand that, before such a serious vulnus of Italian democracy, you had to put in place all the instruments to fill it or at least to change the tendency that, even dramatically, has proved and built in recent years. Instead, once again choose a mode - it is also a merit of the reform - that this vulnus will accentuate even more. There will be no citizen of our territory who will not think in the next few hours that, once again, this Parliament appears light years away from a real country that no longer understands the language spoken here and that has also sent you to say that it no longer understood anything about your choices and your politics. You had already mistaken everything, colleagues of the majority of the government, when you had thought of imposing constitutional reform by majority blows: we told you. We were few when we began the battle against your constitutional reform, but as we grew, day after day and month after month, we grew to become an overwhelming majority in this country. The story that took place in those days has shown how, even in that case, the history of the XVII legislature was marked: perhaps never in republican history has there been such an overwhelming majority in the House and the Senate with Bulgarian votes and armored in the days of constitutional reform, contrasted by minorities that counted few appeals for votes, become to the test of the urns and the call of the sovereign people a resounding minority. Never, as in those days, months and weeks, has there been such a sidereal distance between this Palace, the fundamental choices of politics - with the capital letter - and the deep feeling of the real country. When you take such a beating and the sovereign people send you to say in a clear and strong way that you are wrong everything and that your choices are light years away from the prevailing feeling of the country, at least you take note of what is happening. It is aware that, when a slap is so powerful, perhaps the Italian people are asking you and indicating the possible way out of the democratic crisis that has been consumed in recent years. The solution to the democratic crisis is a play on words, but it is the only possible truth: it is more democracy. There is no other solution than this. One imagines that, when a majority of government with really overwhelming numbers within this Parliament realizes its small numbers in the real country, it radically changes its way compared to what it has tried to say over time and perhaps tries to build, if it wants to change the electoral law, a bill that has other characteristics than the basic idea solemnly rejected by the Italian people. And inside that rejection there was simply not the will of the majority of Italians not to erase the perfect bicameralism. Maybe there was also someone who had a particular sympathy for this Senate of the Republic. In that rejection there was, instead, the profound idea that before the crisis it was necessary to respond radically reversing the trend of all the last years, the idea precisely that in the crisis we had to choose another type of approach and road. How can you not see that day after day, month after month, year after year dramatically decreases the percentage of citizens who go to vote? How can you not see him? This electoral law, once again, proposes nominations at all levels. Once again it creates mechanisms that most likely, from here to a few years, the Constitutional Court will fail, because it introduces mechanisms of vote even cheats compared to what can happen. How can you not understand that the choices you are making over the last few hours will accentuate the democratic vulnus that is already deep within our country instead of diminishing it? How can you not see that these choices will only further favor those political movements and forces that have made anti-political, criticism of parties and the system their only, probably, reason for existence? With a joke I would say that there is a conspiracy: by chance, colleagues of the Democratic Party, you have in your pocket, without which we know, the card of the 5 Star Movement, assuming it exists? Is there really anyone who today, in this country, in good faith does not think that the choices you are making are the strongest wind in the sails of those who built around the criticism of your political system its main reason for consensus? How can you not see what's happening? How can we fail to see that this mixture of moral and economic crises is potentially explosive and is likely to overwhelm everything? You should have drawn up an electoral law and a hypothesis of electoral law capable of giving breath back to the citizenship of this country and of putting in place some minimum elements of democracy, participation and popular involvement. Don't you feel this sidereal distance? Don't you see empty assemblies in party homes? Can't you see no one's going to party anymore? What else must happen in Italy today to realize that the entire political system is collapsing, that even - as we know - it was built at the price of great sacrifices and that in this country it was the great cornerstone around which Italian democracy was built? How can you not see what's happening? How can you be blind to such obvious signs? I mean, they cross the whole of Europe. What more must happen in the rest of the European continent? Do you see what is happening to the political parties of the main groups that have marked the history of fifty years of the various Western countries of Europe? How can you fail to understand what is happening to the French Socialist Party, to the Spanish Socialist Party, to the parties that have been linked to various types of political groups over the past few decades, such as the people and the socialists? Is it possible that only we see that the political system that has marked a large part of history, and not only of the Italian Republic but of the entire European continent, is dramatically crumbling under your eyes and in our eyes? How can you not see that an entire political system is collapsing? When something like this happens, you really should count to three before you talk. In a situation that has such characteristics that it can overwhelm the entire political system, I find it completely irresponsible to make a choice like this, in the method. The electoral law is not changed a few months after the vote. And - as I have already said in the Commission - I do not think that we should do so even if I agree with all the forces of this Parliament, because abstractly there could be a great movement which is not representative and not represented in Parliament, outside the present Parliament, which could have every right to say that democratic rules are not changed a few weeks after the vote. Even so, however, even with the opposition of what - we like it or not - is still the largest opposition party or movement in the country, even from the point of view of the method introduces an element of laceration that has no precedent in the history of our country. I therefore believe that, for all these reasons, the road you have taken is quite a tombstone. Five years ago we started this legislature with "Italy. Good Common," a coalition that put together the democratic and progressive forces of the country: the Democratic Party and the Left Ecology and Freedom at the time. This legislature, since the first weeks of its life, has seen a separation of those forces and every moment that passed, minute by minute, an ever greater distance than our ally five years ago, the Democratic Party, from the world that we tried to represent together at the time. Perhaps - as some say - it's good, because family albums are no longer enough to create political coalitions. Family albums no longer exist. I believe that the choice you made tonight is the final epilogue of a precise political trajectory. The season of renzism closed any relationship of that party that was once our ally with the Italian left, the one with the tiny "s," not the one with the capital "S." So I want to say inside, but above all outside this House, that for us, the Italian left (again with the tiny "s," not with the capital "S"), there is an obligation that is not simply political, but moral: to unite, to build together a political platform, to give another opportunity to the citizens of this country and to do so through a political platform radically alternative to your colleagues in the Democratic Party. I am very convinced that, just as it happened a few months ago, when you were a majority in this Parliament, but a total minority in the country, once again, from here to a few months, you will have been a majority here, but you will be a minority outside. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u126	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, millions of Italians are astonished at the decision to put the question of trust in the draft electoral law here in the Senate, after this unfortunate decision has been taken in the House of Deputies. I know you're laughing at us. I've seen you laugh a lot. But what does it matter to the unemployed, to the cassintegrates and to the young people who do not find opportunities for the fatuous parliamentary battle of oppositions on the armchairs? That's your reasoning, but you're so wrong. The women and men of this country, our fellow citizens, are smarter than you do and showed it to you on December 4th. Perhaps they do not know very well the parliamentary regulations and the institutional etiquette that you rape today, but one thing they understood very well: when the seats are yours, the trust you put it and the result you bring home. Will you put your trust in punishing companies that relocate to Poland or Romania? Of course not. Will you put your trust in stabilising the precarious researchers of research institutions? Of course not. Will you trust us to introduce rules on love and gender education, to fight everyday rapes and feminicides by our fellow citizens who have a sick concept of women? Of course not. Will you trust the young people who are competent and motivated in public administrations and overcome the turnover blockade? Of course not. Will you put your confidence in the measure on the ius soli? Of course not. Will you trust the abolition of superticket in public hospitals? Do you put your trust in order not to raise your retirement age? Of course not. No, ladies and gentlemen, you never put the question of trust on the right measures, which Italy has been waiting for for years, to give hope to young people and the younger ones. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] You put it for your power games, which Berlusconi and Salvini are happy to join. But you are mistaken, because Italians are not stupid at all: they demonstrated this on 4 December last and will prove it in the next political elections. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u128	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u129	Mr President, I would like to address the Italian citizens to tell them what the draft electoral law under consideration will produce, that someone has renamed Fascistellum because of the five votes of confidence with which it has been approved in the Chamber of Deputies and on which you will also place your trust here in the Senate. The measure will certainly be declared unconstitutional, as well as the Porcellum, Italicum and the many decrees you have adopted. However, in order to understand what the effects of this draft electoral law will be, we need to retrace some of what has happened. On September 8, 2007, ten years ago, the first V-Day was celebrated in all the squares of Italy. I was there, and we were all from the Five Star Movement. We called for a ban on candidates in Parliament for those convicted, permanently and not, for non-polluting crimes with penalties of more than ten months and twenty days; the limit of two legislatures for parliamentarians; the amendment of the electoral law through the introduction of the preferred vote. If these simple and sensible things had been taken into account by politics, we would not be here today. March 2013: 5 Star Movement enters Parliament. Election of the new President of the Republic, after Giorgio Napolitano: the 5 Star Movement proposes and votes Stefano Rodotà and, while the square outside shouted his name ('Rodotà, Rodotà!) you, thinking of saving armchairs and power, revote, as it had never happened before in history, for the second time in a row the same President of the Republic, still Giorgio Napolitano. April 2013: Government was born between PD and Forza Italia. Letta and Alfano form the first government of this legislature, the PD begins its crisis. 4 December 2013: The Court declares the Porcellum unconstitutional, the majority in Parliament is abusive. Citizens and the 5 Star Movement immediately call for new elections, which will not come. Later, Napolitano instructs Letta to reform the Constitution and appoints a committee of wise men with the will to break the Constitution through the amendment of Article 138. The parties conduct a hate campaign against the Constitution. But the 5 Star Movement, in the total silence of the media, rises on the roof of Montecitorio and saves the Constitution. February 2014: Napolitano hunts via Letta for failing to disassemble the Constitution. Then he takes Renzi and Boschi and entrusts him with the same task: go and destroy the Constitution. April 2014: they, as good servants of the court, proceed, start from the Provinces: they believe that they have abolished them and instead cancel only the vote of the citizens. Also in April 2014 Renzi and Boschi deposited the constitutional reform, but it will go badly, very badly. May 2015: with the vows of trust and thanks to the Nazarene pact between Renzi and Berlusconi, italicum is approved. PD keeps losing pieces, voters, face, everything. 4 December 2016: Italians, with 60% of the votes against, disintegrate the subversive reform of the Italian Constitution that bore the signature of the PD, free Renzi and Boschi and send a clear message: we no longer want you, Get out of here. On December 10, 2016, after being received by the President of the Republic for the consultations of the parliamentary groups, at the end of the meeting, the leaders of the 5 Star Movement Luigi Gaetti and Giulia Grillo reiterated our absolute opposition to the conferment of a new office of Government. They had, at the same time, declared: Waiting for the Council to express its views on the electoral law, the resigning Government must confine itself to being merely a regulatory instrument at the service of Parliament and, above all, of the Constitutional Court. Any other solution will be a betrayal of the popular will. We cannot abuse people's patience beyond all measures. Their will must be respected, not violated. On the same day, at the end of the consultations, the President of the Republic of Mattarella will say: In these meetings, a general need for harmonization of the two laws for the election of the House and the Senate emerged as a priority, which is an essential condition for the holding of elections. On December 11, 2016 Paolo Gentiloni Silveri received the assignment from President Mattarella, on December 12 renames the same Ministers of the Renzi Government, mocking the Italians. January 2017: the Consulta declares the Italicum unconstitutional, declares unconstitutional the ballot and the possibility for the blocked capilist to choose the college of election. In a few minutes I listed only some of the damage you have done in these five years and I didn't even talk about jobs act, good school, wreck Italy. This brief report shows how irresponsible you have been. It will not be the vows of trust in here that will save you from the judgment of the citizens, because the real trust you need is out there, in the squares, among the people, and you don't have it. This infamous electoral law, which deprives citizens of the opportunity to choose their representatives in Parliament, will have two effects shortly. The first effect you will see on 5 November next in Sicily, where citizens, with their vote, will make the general evidence for the next national elections. The second effect will be to transform the next elections into the biggest "Fuck you day" in the history of Italy, when the citizens will send you all home forever! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u130	Senator Moronese, please, the language must be adapted to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u131	MORONESE (M5S). It is appropriate to the House, Mr President, exactly! MARTON (M5S). That's what you need in here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Moronese, please. Then people, I didn't want to tell them. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u132	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a further delicate and final moment in this troubled and convulsive legislature: both for the subject matter, the electoral law, and for the conflicting climate and, once again, it is a crucial step in parliamentary life. We have long left behind the guiding criterion of systematicity and coherence between the form of government, parliamentary system and electoral law. The proportional approaches once had their own linearity; thus the majority electoral approaches. On the way, in the world, we have known correctives and mixed systems. In Italy we arrived late. The electoral systems of the advanced countries have been able to dissolve them after the Second World War and today they have more history and democratic energy to face the tremendous challenges of the social and economic crises, the devastating rise of populisms, the spread of the many injustices present in globalization without rules. From this point of view too, the path of the Second Republic has been tormented. We got off pretty well with the Mattarellum. Then, again, we got lost, until we got to vote, since 2006, with the so-called Porcellum. In short, the crisis of politics has entered the core of the democratic system. It has finally overwhelmed the ancient system and today so much regret of the party Noi, protagonist of the First Republic, and has left us at the mercy of the failure and destructive party I of the current Second Republic. So today we have a serious difficulty in coming out of it. It is true that even in the Rosatellum we continue to give up a qualifying point of the principle of representation: the likely and realistic possibility, the day after the elections, of having a clear majority around which to equip the country with a stable government. This honest and self-evident criticism does not lead me to defend the current electoral law: none of this. Defending or passively accepting the Porcellum-Consultellum in force is the real weakness of those who today oppose, even vehemently, the Rosatellum. I do not think it is a good choice to go and vote with a law not voted by Parliament, since the Consultellum is the product of the inevitable intervention of the Constitutional Court. I understand that these days, demanding one of the foundations of democracy, which requires Parliament to vote on electoral law, is not a value to be appreciated. Beyond, however, the value, even on the ground floor of the minimum effectiveness to be required of an electoral law, with the Consultellum we should go and vote with a completely asymmetrical law between the House and the Senate. An abstruse and incomprehensible diversity, which risks being ruinous and giving a fatal blow to the democratic life of our country, without giving in return any benefit, such as, for example, giving the opportunity to form a government in a transparent way and with coherent coalitions. In the law that we are about to launch, the asymmetry between the House and the Senate is positively overcome: it is not a small thing. Single Collegi both to the House and to the Senate, with naturally different sizes, and plurinomial colleges, equally consistent, for the two Chambers. Another positive aspect of the Rosatellum should not be underestimated: the coalition mechanism is recovered, albeit partially, stimulated by the prediction of uninomial colleges, with a certain majority weight that springs from it. It remains an unsolved point. It leaves, in proportion, the list blocked: an error, a limit that is not good for politics and the need to select a more rooted and authoritative ruling and parliamentary class. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in an enchanted phase of transition. The Third Republic does not take off. In the next parliamentary term, Parliament will have to work to give the country an institutional framework capable of combining democratic decision and democratic participation. Two regulatory values that must live together and guide the fundamental choices of a solid and mature third phase of our Republic. The political climate must also be different: more cooperation and more responsibility. In many of us Members of the majority there remains a reservation on the choice of trust, it is undeniable, and the will to vote on this electoral law is also all played on the reduction of damage. It is already a result that must be appreciated and shared. [[Applause from Senators Russo and Collina]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u134	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u135	Mr President, we have learned that there are no saving leaders who can solve the problems of so many on their own and that the information of newspapers and televisions is shamelessly enslaved and we find you there and listen to you the opposite of what is true. The key to change lies in participation, a clear awareness, also underlined by the referendum vote that sent back to the sender the "constitutional deformity" inspired by man's model only at the command. The awareness in the country has matured that there is a possible alternative to those revolutionary liberal policies - other than neoliberals! - the precariousness of work, the commodification of rights and the cancellation of the social state, policies which, among other things, have passed through the last governments in recent years. There is a very vast people who are ready to support a political force like ours to interpret it. We have marked a marked break with the past: to give back protagonism to the participation of citizens, to claim without compromise the rights that have been removed to build a more just, inclusive and truly founded society on the recognition of talents and on social solidarity, able to counter the reforms dictated by the rapacious capitalist lobby without scruples and by weak and consenting governments and self-referential political forces. Our political strength is the only one able to reverse the course to this model of development, based on the cancellation of rights and the blind and senseless exploitation of the environment, the territory, the artistic and cultural resources of our country. The 5 Star Movement is the only political force that represents the rights and reasons of work, of the young generations left by you without future, of the old middle class that no longer exists, because of you. In recent years, from opposition - finally welcome opposition, also in Italy - we have struggled for rights and we have made concrete and alternative proposals, with courage and without compromise. Are we at a new scam law? Yeah, we're at a new scam law, or criminal law. This law is clearly a violation of freedom of vote, as Paul Mieli, a person who is notoriously not on our side, said. This law is designed to penalise the popular will and, moreover, it is launched a few months after the elections, with clear intent to rig the result and not to be wandered by those who could do it, that is, the Constitutional Court, who will not have the time. It is the shameful product of a majority elected by an unconstitutional law, the Porcellum, which, having failed with Italicum, now returns with the aim of getting more and more defeated in Parliament with this new electoral law, in order then to govern, right and left, as they have always done, with the famous crowds, hidden however by words to repeat the wretched neoliberal policies, to continue to squeeze and despise even more workers and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The aim is not to give a more just electoral law to the country - the Consultellum with thresholds equated between the Chamber and the Senate would have been more than sufficient - but to favor a government of broad PD and right understandings; to prevent the Italians from choosing candidates and elected; to mortify the only opposition party, that is the 5 Star Movement. We just need to see Berlusconi at the Presidency of the Republic and the picture will be complete. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). I wish. PUGLIA (M5S). The tragedy is that, in their concern to keep power firmly in their hands, they have further undermined citizens' confidence in politics and institutions, these traitors and corrupts. We hear a lot about the crisis on the left; the facts show that it is not the left who has lost the arguments, on the contrary, there are too many. The serious fact is that those (party, trade unions, civil society) who should represent it, carrying forward the demands of the poor and exploited, have instead surrendered and delivered themselves with arms and luggage to the financial lobby. Period. The end. They made an electoral law that benefits them. But I trust a lot in partisan sentiment, and then they didn't realize that not all citizens are inert. Italians couldn't stand any re-edition of films they've seen. The key to change is participation, President. I trust in everyone's responsibility. The stakes are very high, too high. We are not afraid to disappear, but to have a Parliament with (...) and a people who no longer represent anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u136	This expression shall be removed from the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u137	PADUA (PD). This is unbearable! Mr Russo (PD). Let's get Puglia out of the Chamber! PUGLIA (M5S). Excuse me, Mr. President, I got carried away. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, I'm calling you back to order. PUGLIA (M5S). Excuse me, Mr President, but unfortunately I have missed an extra epithet. COLLINA (PD). He wrote it down. PUGLIA (M5S). This, Mr President, is the season of courage: the more we will have, the more the voters will reward us. I'm sure of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u138	I hope she didn't write it, but she just ran away.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u139	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u140	Mr President, these are difficult times, of course. I have lived through this new electoral bill as the continuation of a draft, which has not begun in this legislature but which in this legislature seems to want to achieve completion, namely the sterilization of Parliament as a controller of the government's work. In my view, in the dictation of our Constitution Parliament is the dominus of the whole constitutional order. Ours is a Constitution that presents a strong imbalance in favour of Parliament: Parliament affects the control of the judiciary; Parliament makes the laws; Parliament controls the work of the Executive and Parliament elects the guarantor of the Constitution, in the figure of the President of the Republic. This design, which was deliberately tyrannophobe after the Fascist Twenty-Years, had a flaw, namely the lack of constitutionalization of the electoral law system. That Parliament, seen by our constituents so powerful and so strong, was so because it was the photograph of the people, of the electoral body; it was because it was elected or imagined as elected by the proportional system and there everything made sense: it made sense for the quorum to modify the Constitution, it made sense for the quorum to elect the President of the Republic, because that Parliament was the photograph of the people. Since this Republic began to walk and proceed, however, the Executive has recalcitrated from this design, seeking more and more space. He did so with the approval of the so-called scam law and in 1963 with the amendment of Article 60. I remember that, initially, the Senate had a duration of six years, different from that of the Chamber; let alone if it posed the problem of having the same system between Chamber and Senate. Why? Because that Parliament should have taken care to make laws, to make a thorough analysis, before those laws, to find a synthesis for them and to express a government that somehow put itself in a position that serves Parliament. Instead, it has tended to simplify more and more; it has been tried to do so with the reform done by the center-right and then rejected by the electorate, it has continued to do so with the attempts of the bicameral, it has continued to do so at the beginning of this legislature and, thank God, the people have been more forward-looking than its representatives or at least its representation passed by the majority law. The fear that, I remember, we pointed out to the people and the electoral corps during the constitutional referendum was that of the combined arrangement, namely the sterilization of the Senate, which was impossible to subject to a national majority prize and the majority in the House. With the majority in fact, Parliament becomes a sort of harmonic fund of the Government, a sort of government airbag: the Government decides and Parliament takes responsibility, in practice, we have a Supergovernment and a Parliament that ratifys. This type of approach is the one that will be achieved if this law is passed; we will have two Chambers that will have a representation that will not be proportional, but distorted, that will not host representatives of the citizens wanted directly, because with a thousand engineers you will make sure that it is not so. We know that a third will be elected with the unanimous vote, two thirds will be elected by train, as some Members have just said. The relationship between representatives and representatives is relaxed. Is that what it takes? You gotta figure out who it's for. The Italian people represented in every legitimate way possible the feeling of discomfort for the detachment from their representatives, while the economic potentates and a certain political class, unfortunately represented here in a majority way, at this moment, instead asks for a sort of dissolution from the laces and laces of the representation. Is that a far-sighted choice? I don't think so. Where popular instances are not transposed by the Chambers, where they should be represented, they grow and feed outside of this representation and God escapes us from a strong extra-parliamentary opposition, because it would represent a real and serious danger for all, also because violent upheavals also turn against those who started them. Imagine, therefore, how uneasiness and opposition we accept not only such a bill, but also the fact that it - as it is happening - is being imposed on the Senate, as has already happened in the House of Deputies, with several votes of confidence, contracted in a single debate, in a situation where our Constitution, as we know, provides for electoral laws to be approved by the normal procedure. There is therefore a series of forcings. Colleagues, we are creating the conditions for what Cicero called res novae, and frankly, it bothers me and worries me and I don't understand how you don't care about others. I do not understand how it does not concern most of my colleagues, who generally have more experience than I do in this area. I would therefore like to associate myself with those who, before me, asked those colleagues of the majority, who are more sensitive to these issues, to reconsider their position, because we owe the first obedience, even before the parties that made us elect, to the republican institutions and to the people who brought us here. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed-SI-SEL]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u141	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u142	Mr President, Rosatellum is not an electoral law. I repeat: it is not an electoral law, it is a declaration of war on popular sovereignty, it is a challenge of the parties to all citizens who love democracy. How do you define a text that is clearly unconstitutional in several parts? How do we define elections as something that, in fact, prevents voters from choosing their representatives in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate? During the hearings, at least six profiles of unconstitutionality were revealed. Is it possible that Italians should vote with a law that is so complicated that they request lessons of law to be understood? You are preparing a democratic disaster, because many people are going to vote without having any idea how the electoral law really works and without understanding where their votes are going to end. Instead of a ballot, the Italians will find themselves with an incomprehensible contract, with a liar: something that reminds so much of the complicated contracts with which the banks - to you dear - have cheated savers, convincing them to invest in subordinated bonds, without letting them understand the risk they were running. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Be careful, Italians! Be careful: now this must be a golden rule when dealing with this political class. When something is too complicated to be understood immediately, then you can be sure that there is the catch under it. The parties are deceiving themselves that Italians do not eat the leaf, but they are very wrong, as they were wrong last December 4, when 20 million citizens foiled the attempted theft of the Constitution. Mr President, I want to give at least a couple of clear examples, to give an idea of how devious your tricks are to remain attached to the seats: if an elector of Brothers of Italy puts the cross on the name of Giorgia Meloni, his vote will go yes to the Meloni, but he will also be spread more over Forza Italia and Lega, which will receive many more votes than those actually expressed by the voters. Even being a minority party, Brothers of Italy will be penalized by the vote given to the Melons. Unbelievable? No, that's right! I would like to take a second example: a gentleman who, despite himself, can no longer sit in this House, has invented an animalist movement; when voters cross the animalist movement, because they understandably prefer cats and dogs to this political class. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , with the threshold of 3 percent, unknowingly, they will give their vote, in fact, to Forza Italia and Lega. Same for the center-left coalition, if center-left you can call. A mechanism designed to brush the votes of voters who would never and never put the cross on the PD or on Forza Italia, but who could put it on owl lists like a so-called precarious party or a movement of pensioners. You realize that Italians can't stand you anymore. You realize that they can't wait to go and vote to send you home, you were scared and you came up with an electoral law, in fact, let's call it his name, a fraud, through which the loser wins. A devilish scam to hijack the voters' vote where you want it best. In five minutes it is impossible to explain in detail all the storture of the Rosatellum, but at least one other thing I think is mandatory to say. You have prided yourself on the fact that the Rosatellum recovers the relationship between the elected and the territory, that voters, thanks to the short lists of candidates, can know the names to which their vote will go. False! Double fake! Meanwhile, in the proportional lists there are multiple candidates, so the same candidate can be placed at the same time in Bergamo and Caserta. What a connection to the territory! Second, short lists are just a fiction, because in reality the lists are even longer than those provided by Porcellum. For a shift effect, my vote can be used not to assign the seat to one of the names I found on my list, but to assign it to one of the names on the lists throughout Italy, since it is distributed in a proportional way at national level. So, as far as the voter knows, his vote, given to a list of people to his liking, can be racked up and used to give the seat to an entrepreneurial candidate hundreds of miles away, a name that maybe never, ever would have given the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is not the Rosatellum, it is the Rubatellum and you - believe me - are not representatives of popular sovereignty, you are reprehensible thieves of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u143	I shall refer the following to the debate on the draft laws in title and the questions of trust to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u144	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-904.ana.u145	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 25 October, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.59 a.m.
