ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u4	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. (Senator Falanga reports a malfunction of the detector). The Presidency acknowledges the presence of Senator Falanga. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u8	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. No 624, 895, 1020, 2160, 2163, 2175, 2178, 2187, 2196, 2197, 2202, 2547 and 2591 and documents XXII, Nos. 30 and 37. The rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Senators, Undersecretary, the Finance and Treasury Commission has drawn up the text for the attention of this House after conducting a survey of the conditions of the Italian banking and financial system and the protection of savings, including with regard to supervision, resolution of crises and the guarantee of European deposits. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u10	Colleagues, we have begun our work on a fairly relevant subject. I would therefore ask for some attention and silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u11	MARINO Mauro Maria, rapporteur. At the end of this investigation, the Commission approved a document setting out the guidelines to be followed in defining the competences of the Commission of Inquiry. The investigation phase was crucial in order to better identify the issues underlying the investigation, since no one can escape that the work of the Commission of Inquiry is part of a delicate context of transition of the system, to which the political forces have devoted attention and sensitivity, starting from the two pillars of the protection of savings and stability and sustainability of the system. The survey started in January 2016 by the Commission's desire to know analytically the scenarios in which to include the parliamentary investigation activity that all the Groups have considered to propose with numerous initiatives, both of the Single Camera Commission and of the Bicameral Commission, with a very differentiated range of investigations for the purpose and nature of the investigation. It was in fact common awareness, with differentiations of method accentuated for the groups Movement 5 Stars and Lega Nord, that a preliminary phase of investigation could enrich the debate of news and indications on the banking system in order to better orient the definition of the investigation. In fact, the diversity of proposals in the field has made the preliminary phase almost necessary: some Groups preferred an inquiry into the case of banks put in resolution, others had a broader and more systematic view; then the draft laws relating to the Venetian banks and other individual institutions were added. These are in total thirteen draft laws: two concerning the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, one the Banco di Desio and Brianza SpA, four the banks put in resolution, four the banking system in general and two the Banca People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank. As rapporteur and President, I acknowledge the constructive and collaborative spirit of the Opposition Groups, which have been able to draw the attention of the majority and of the Commission as a whole on such a sensitive subject. At the same time, I would point out that the commitment to consider the survey as preparatory to the investigation is evidenced by the close timing between the approval of the final document and the examination in the Commission on the basis of commitments we had made both in the Commission and in this House. Without prejudice to the validity of recruitments as a result of the survey, which confirmed the substantial resilience of the system with the risk that fragility of individual institutions could create wider imbalances, the Finance and Treasury Commission suggested a number of guidelines for the conduct of the investigation. Before explaining these guidelines, I think it is appropriate to retrace the factors of crisis and fragility to which we should pay more attention and which have been the subject of hearings and interventions: collection and use, suffering and deteriorated credits, supervision of stability and transparency, critical issues in the placement of products and the protection of transparency. The survey took place against the background of the deep crisis of credibility that struck some sectors of the system, the widespread fears among the holders of shares and bank bonds, the search for solutions that could stabilise the system, the awareness that the legal complex of the banking union must be completed with the third pillar: the single deposit insurance system. Of particular interest was the deepening of the legal aspects that concern the world of finance in a perspective both civil and criminal. Compared to Decree-Law 237 of 2016, which I consider an essential point of arrival in determining the overall strategy for dealing with banking crises, I allow myself to refer to what Luigi Einaudi argued in 1921 in a writing entitled "The kind of banking intervention compared to a liquidity crisis and temporary undercapitalization." Einaudi said: all the practical and theoreticians agree in the canon: giving, giving, giving. Give immediately, give without hesitation, give widely, so as to persuade the public that the target bank has safe shoulders. These words, applied today, allow us to understand how einaudian teaching translates into the duty of politics to reassure on the will to safeguard savers victims of bad practices, to support banks in difficulty and in a key to systemic stability, to work for continuous and effective supervision. I remember that the investigation, of which I will never tire of emphasizing the precious effectiveness, has specified that the investigation should cover the following aspects: the forms, the modalities, the objectives and the effectiveness of the supervision on the banks regarding both the stability of the system and the transparency; the analysis of the management of the banks against the scenarios opened in Italy from the financial crisis of the sovereign debt; the modalities of collection of the supply and the instruments used; the criteria of remuneration of the managers and the realization of transactions with related parties susceptible to conflict of interest; the placement to the public of financial products, with particular reference to the banking obligations, also in relation to the aspects of civil and criminal importance; the forms of lending to particularly important entrepreneurs, especially if they fall in the category of related parties and the spread of unfair practices of matching between the provision of credit and sale of shares or other financial instruments of the bank, also in relation to aspects of civil and criminal importance; the structure of the costs, the restructuring of the management model and the policy of aggregation and fusion. As it is easy to verify, these are guidelines which have found their acceptance in the definition of the powers of the Commission of inquiry, whose Article 3 of the founding bill, in the text proposed by the Commission (which is the paradigmatic one), has been the result of careful examination and calibrated writing to take account of the needs on the table. Article 3 states that the Commission has the task of verifying the effects on the Italian banking system of the global financial crisis and the consequences of the worsening of sovereign debt; the management of banking institutions that have remained involved in crisis or disaster situations and have been or are addressed, even indirectly, to public resources or have been put into resolution (i.e. giving the broadest possible meaning to the matter). In particular, for these institutions, the Commission will verify: the methods of collection of funds and the instruments used; the criteria for the remuneration of managers and the implementation of transactions with related parties likely to conflict of interest; the correctness of placement with the public with regard to small savers and non-institutional investors of financial products, especially those at high risk, and with particular reference to bank bonds; the forms of credit provision to particularly important entrepreneurs and the spread of incorrect practices of matching credit payments and sale of shares or other financial instruments of the bank; the cost structure, the restructuring of the management model, the policy of aggregation and merger; compliance with the obligations of diligence, transparency and fairness in the allocation of financial products, as well as the obligations of correct information of investors. The Commission will also monitor the effectiveness of the supervisory activities on the banking system and on the financial markets carried out by the bodies responsible, in relation to the protection of savings and the way in which the current rules and control instruments are applied, in particular with regard to the detailed rules for the application and suitability of intervention, the sanctioning powers and the control instruments available, as well as the adequacy of the procedures for supervision against risks and the safeguarding of market transparency. Finally, the adequacy of national and European legislation and regulation on the banking and financial system, as well as on the supervisory system, will be examined, including for the prevention and management of banking crises. In other words, a photograph of the consequences of the crisis follows a detailed and specific analysis of all the factors that have caused the difficulties of individual institutions, identified in the formula referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 of the aforementioned article. The Commission stated that it did not consider it appropriate to indicate, in relation to formulations in the original draft laws, a defined period during which the events investigated had taken place. Another distinguishing feature of the debate in the Commission was the desire to separate the activities of the judiciary and those of the parliamentary inquiry, in full awareness of the distinction of roles, but also to claim that the main aim of the investigation is to identify shortcomings and apories of system to be dealt with by systematic means, rather than to indicate or seek responsibilities of individuals or institutions. The fundamental assumption of the bill is the awareness that the economic and financial situation triggered by the global crisis and sovereign debt has created a condition of fragility for some Italian banks. The main determinants were the severity of the economic crisis and of the companies, the low interest rate season (which reduced profitability margins), the accumulation of deteriorated loans and the appessation of bank balance sheets. These factors have been added to the structural imbalances of a sector that is still facing a complete review of the business model, starting from the reduction of management costs, and exploiting technological innovation. These elements have certainly been added to cases of poor management, underestimating credit risk and unfair practices against customers and savers. To this complex picture, characterized also by the loss of confidence on the part of savers, has been added the application in running - let me say so - of the new European rules, with specific reference to the resolution of the crises through the criterion of bail-in: a principle in shared theory to remove public finances from the demands dictated by the banking crisis, but whose application to previous situations has made necessary the intervention of November 2015 in favor of four banks. In December 2016, the paradigm of public support, required by the European demand for recapitalisation of banks turned out in negative territory after stress tests, declined with a broad intervention, direct and indirect, on Monte Paschi and preparing the tools, where necessary, for other institutions. In this context, the choice was made to propose to the Assembly the text under discussion. With the exception of Article 3 - on which I have long spread - the draft law to the attention of the Assembly retraces the traditional rules of inquiry. I would like to draw your attention to the length of the term: a year now seems sufficient to guarantee the functionality and effectiveness of the Commission, to be understood as an opportunity to take advantage of the remaining time of the legislature, finding the possible forms necessary to understand that the path must be completed within this legislature. I should like to conclude with a comment that guided the work of rapporteur and President: at the same time as the investigation, as in the past months, the Commission will devote all its attention to the analysis of the rules on transparency and stability. On the Community front, the so-called banking package will be examined at an upward stage, with the deepening that deserves the new European proposals. On the internal front, the Commission follows closely the evolution of the events of the Venetian banks and the processes of strengthening the assets entrusted to private individuals, but also measures of lesser value, which also affect customers and savers, the costs of services and the effectiveness of them, on contractual transparency. All these elements will be examined and deepened. Finally, we will address the issue of financial education, where fate has wanted a conference to be held today, organized by the Finance Commission, here in the Senate, to underline that these are important and significant perspective elements that are part of this overall strategy. The text before this House represents a point of balance and synthesis that I hope will be able to find the widest convergence in this House too, because it wants to be a way in which we let the outside world know how serious our country is and not a way to put our country in trouble. [[Applause from the PD and Art. 1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u12	I declare the joint general discussion open. Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not addressing the Government, because it is not a protagonist in this matter, because we are faced with a parliamentary initiative, although there is no doubt - and it is good to bear in mind - that a great impulse to what we have arrived today gave it to the then President of the Council Renzi in November 2015: when he presented the decree-law on the famous four banks, he said that a Commission of Inquiry was indispensable. I will first of all consider whether a Commission of Inquiry is useful or not, because opinions on this issue are not all the same. Recently, a person who is personally and institutionally authoritative, namely the Senate Leader of the Democratic Party (Senator Zanda), has asked whether it is worth setting up a Committee of Inquiry in conjunction with an election period, because there is no doubt that a Committee of Inquiry into Banks is a very sensitive issue. We are talking about the banking system and I would like to stress that there is a big difference between banks and other companies: if a company fails, the market expands for those that remain; when a bank fails, there is a whole series of entrepreneurial activities that suffer. In addition to shareholders and bondholders, of whom we may not even be interested, there are also savers and, above all, those who operate in the economic system. And then - let us be clear - the banks are controlled by the Bank of Italy, now also by the ECB and Consob for those on the market. Therefore, a Commission of Inquiry is a sensitive issue. However, in support of the argument that it is useful to make the Commission of Inquiry there are some elements: firstly, the OECD and the European Community have recently indicated as the second reason for Italy's weakness, after the size of the public debt, the weakness of the Italian banking system. Italians know, from personal experience and from what they say those who control us and verify our accounts, that the Italian banking system, of which we boasted until a few years ago, is a reason for weakness for our country. Secondly, the vast majority of Italians have the feeling that during this parliamentary term, government and Parliament have dealt a lot with banks (and it is true that we have done so) and have found money to help them and not instead to help ordinary Italian citizens. I therefore believe that, under these conditions, the reasons for setting up a Commission of Inquiry are more valid than the reasons that are opposed to it. I believe that this is a fact, as demonstrated by the number of draft laws that the rapporteur - whom I thank for the correctness of the report, which summarises exactly the work he has done - has taken into account and it is useless for him to repeat it. I think that the draft law before us is generally satisfactory; in practice, it provides that any committee of inquiry should deal primarily and primarily with the banks in which, directly or indirectly, the State has put or is putting money. I make this distinction between direct and indirect ways because there is no doubt that those who will use the EUR 20 billion allocated by the Government and Parliament last December will have the public money; but there are also some bondholders of the four banks that have used the interbank fund, which still weighs on Italian citizens, savers, because money never comes down from the sky. What we in Forza Italia absolutely do not agree with about the text under discussion, but which can still be corrected by Parliament, concerns the duration of this Commission: the end of a year would be logical if we were in the middle of a parliamentary term, but we cannot forget that we are at the end of the parliamentary term. We were elected in February 2013, our mandate expires in February 2018 and I don't know when the elections will be set. Furthermore, there are many of us in this House and outside this House who think that the legislature should be shorter. If the parliamentary term lasts very little, it is not in time, but if the parliamentary term comes to an end it must be made absolutely clear that the Commission of Inquiry will have to complete its work within this parliamentary term. What does a year mean? It means that we approve the establishment of the Commission today or next week, then it goes to the House and before May it is not done; the elections will be before May 2018. Can we say, then, that we are doing a job that will be completed in the next legislature, with people who will be different from us? It doesn't make sense. In my opinion, it would seem that we are making fun of the Italians: let us tell them that we want to be the Commission, but in fact the Commission will not finish its work and in the next legislature there will be further extensions. Forza Italia and other oppositions have presented a series of alternatives that propose a fixed date, for example December 2017, but it could also be January 2018; there are other solutions that say "however by the end of the legislature". We have planned a year, but it must end by the end of the parliamentary term. The rapporteur and the majority decide on the formula, but if we want to be serious and credible towards the country we have to predict that the Commission will complete its work within this legislature (of course if the legislature comes to an end; if we vote in four months it would be a mockery for everyone). I would like to ask the rapporteur, who has opened the debate in the Commission, which has been wide-ranging, on this subject, but who has finally summarized the positions with the maintenance of the original text, saying that we could revise it in this House. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the majority to consider this, because it is clear that the majority is the leader of the decisions. The opposition, in fact, on this point but also on the rest, seems to me to have a fairly homogeneous position. Therefore, the possible changes are in your hands and - as I have already said - I think it is useful to set up the Commission and close it within this parliamentary term. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u14	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to start by quoting a politician who is important to the Left, Berlinguer, who said in 1982: The parties occupied the State and all the institutions from the Government. They have occupied local authorities, pension funds, banks, public companies, cultural institutions, hospitals, universities, RAI TV, some large newspapers. The parties have also occupied the banks: twenty-five years have passed since those statements and it is now difficult to say whether it is really the parties that have occupied the banks and controlled them or whether it is the banks that control the parties. Let us take some examples to understand how close the link between politics and finance is, between politics and credit institutions. I am talking about politics at the highest level and not just in Italy. The former President of the European Commission, Manuel Barroso, is today President and Advisor of Goldman Sachs, but it will be a coincidence; Mario Monti, former President of the Council, was from 2005 to 2011 International advisor for Goldman Sachs; Romano Prodi, former President of the Council and former President of the European Union, was from 1990 to 1993 in Goldman Sachs and then President of the International Advisory Board of Unicredit. Then he gave him the change, also here another coincidence, another former President of the Council, Giuliano Amato, today judge of the Constitutional Court. Gianni Letta, Berlusconi's powerful undersecretary and right-hand man, was Goldman Sachs' advisor and seems to have also played a role in the sale of Antonveneta. It would be interesting for the Commission to investigate this. Mario Draghi, former director of the Bank of Italy at the time of the acquisition of Antonveneta by MPS and current President of the ECB, from 2002 to 2005 was advisor, vice president and director of Goldman Sachs. Augusto Fantozzi, former Minister of Finance, was advisor to the Lazard business bank; Domenico Siniscalco, former Director General of the Treasury and Minister for Economic Affairs in 2006, becomes vice president of Morgan Stanley. And here, coincidence (but they are all coincidences), I remember that the government paid Morgan Stanley a penalty of billions of euros for an adverse clause contained in derivative contracts. Vittorio Grilli, former Minister of Economics, worked in JP Morgan. So let's go back to the initial question: is it the policy that controls banks or is it the banks that controls politics? I don't know, and I don't have an answer. I know that there is a vicious conflict of interest between politics at its highest level and the banking system. This should be the main task of the Commission, that is to identify the responsibilities of the very serious crisis situations in which many institutions in our country live, but starting from the responsibilities of politics. It is a conflict of interests on which the Commission of Inquiry should focus its attention and which passes through the trust assignments received by the parties, but which passes above all from the financing of the world of finance and credit institutions to parties, perhaps through political foundations. In Italy there are 66 of them and they are created to hide the identity of members and donors: 93 percent of these foundations fail to make the list of lenders accessible. But something leaks. Luciano Violante, of the Democratic Party, who directs the association Italianodecide, perhaps unwisely and as a denial, in answer to the question if his association received funding from Romeo, currently under arrest, said not to receive funding from Romeo, but to receive them from Banca Intesa, Unicredit and others. Then we see that this Government renews the concession of the A4 Padua-Brescia, which is the busiest highway in Italy, free of charge and for ten years to a private dealer. Who is this private dealership? It's Banca Intesa: a strange coincidence, yet another coincidence. It should not surprise us, then, that it took four years to see the birth of a Committee of Inquiry into bank cracks. However, it comes - another coincidence - only now, in the last part-session, when, for the short time available, it is less scary. I have tabled an amendment to the draft law under consideration, which I believe I can make common sense and which says, for the most part, that they cannot be part of this Senators and Members' Commission which has been in charge of administration and control or has been in continuous consultation with the banking institutions under investigation. In a nutshell, if you're in conflict of interest, you can't take part in the Committee of Inquiry that has to investigate your own conflict of interest. Well, this amendment was rejected in the Commission. Perhaps, Mr President, in the majority they thought that, by restricting access to the Commission only to Members without a conflict of interest with the banking system, there would be very few left. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Committee of Inquiry into Banks should first investigate the behaviour of Consob and the Bank of Italy, which were unable to carry out their supervisory functions. In particular, I think of the People's Bank of Vicenza. The last capital increase had to be clearly prevented. The Bank of Italy knew that the Venetian Institute was on the verge of bankruptcy or perhaps even beyond, but it let it try to save itself at the expense of savers. Why? Why did Banca d'Italia try to have the Banca Popolare di Vicenza buy, already in disastrous conditions, even Banca Etruria? In practice, pressure was put on one decoction bank to buy another even more decoction. Perhaps the problem is that Banca d'Italia is controlled by the same banks that it has to control. I remember, however, that the summits of Banca d'Italia and Consob are of governmental appointment. If the Commission goes to investigate the responsibilities, I would not be surprised if the Commission were to establish that those who made those appointments were responsible, those who did not request the resignation of the summits of Consob and Banca d'Italia, those who hindered any proposal for reform of the supervisory bodies. Secondly, this Commission should investigate responsibilities, which also means having to identify those who continue to hinder some very important reforms: let us talk - for example - about the reform of the statute of limitations in our country. Among the crimes hypothesized by some prosecutors to the directors of the Venetian banks, in particular, there are the enhancement, the obstacle to supervision, the fake in the budget, the associative bond, the scam. They are all crimes that can be prescribed from six to seven and a half years from the end of the crime. It's basically mathematician that everyone gets away with it. If there is a person responsible, then, it is that political part that does not want to put a hand in the reform of the prescription. The Commission should also investigate the responsibility of those who are blocking other major reforms in Parliament such as class action. You think that abroad, where it works, it has forced billionaire compensation to be paid to scammed investors. Think also of whistleblowing, which is a rule that protects the employee who informs the competent authority of the offences committed within his organization. You think that the Enron scandal - I am talking about a 74 billion hole - emerged thanks to a whistleblower. But identifying responsibilities also means looking at the policy that has benefited directly from the banking system. For example, Monte dei Paschi di Siena was controlled until recently by the Monte dei Paschi foundation. Who controlled the foundation? They were the Municipality and the Province of Siena and, therefore, politics; a policy that, in the last fifty years, has always been represented by the same party: the PCI, then PDS, DS and finally PD. So the PD, controlling the local authorities, controlled the foundation that controlled Monte dei Paschi di Siena. It is the same PD that, if it had used all the resources of the oldest bank in the world to buy electoral consent, it would certainly have altered the democratic functioning of our country. The Commission of Inquiry must investigate this. It is ironic, however, that it is the same PD that delayed the birth of this Commission for four years and should therefore now investigate it. It should investigate - for example - the issues of bank transfers to the party by Giuseppe Mussari or by the vice-president of the bank Ernesto Rabizzi and, again, by the president of the company Monte Paschi di Siena Capital Services in favor of the federation of the PD of Siena or by Riccardo Margheriti, president of MPS Banca Verde or, again, by Alessandro Piazzi, advisor of the MPS foundation. They're all five-zero wire transfers. Why was all that money paid to the Democratic Party? Is it true that the President of Monte Paschi di Siena from 1999 to 2009 paid to the DS 682,000 euros? And why did you pay DS these amounts? Is it true that the president of the banking foundation paid €703,000 to the PD federation in Siena and why? I believe that citizens have the right to have answers, which should come from a committee of inquiry. But I also believe that everything will be done to divert attention from the work of this Commission. You will do anything as long as you speak as little as possible, as long as you do not know the truth. For this reason, the Commission of Inquiry comes to light, in a thousand difficulties, only in this last part-session. That's why you've been covering up our bill for four years and dusting it up just now, maybe to throw some smoke in the eyes of citizens before the election. Do not be deceived, because the day of the elections will also come and then the Commission of Inquiry will do it ourselves, because the citizens have the right to have answers, but not if they expect them from the politicians themselves who are the cause of this disaster. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u17	Madam President, the debate on the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry has been going on for a long time. We have called for more speed in the conduct of parliamentary work and we are coming to a debate today - in our opinion - quite late in this House. Of the time allowed to the Commission to complete its work, Senator Carraro said, and I am referring to his speech. I would rather like to talk about the content of the proposal. As President Mauro Maria Marino said, the contents start from an investigation already initiated and concluded within the 6th Commission. With regard to the outcome of that investigation, we have noted that there has been, in our view, excessive goodwill towards the supervisory bodies and the banking system itself and some banks in particular. I would like to remind my colleagues that at this moment we are committing 20 billion public money, among other things acquired through a specific authorization to issue new public debt - it is therefore 20 billion that are weighing, once again, on future generations - to resolve some banking crises and, in particular, that of Monte Paschi di Siena, which has already drawn more than 7 billion to that fund through the guarantee system. We're making public money, but we wouldn't want to do it to cover inefficiencies and magicians of the past. We do this and we have also shared it only to avoid a systemic crisis in the national economy. The intervention against some banks is, in fact, necessary to avoid that the consequences of their bad administrations and their failures can fall on the economy especially of the Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, which have little chance of verifying the quality of the management of the banks to which they refer, but which certainly have much to suffer if they have to close their doors from today to tomorrow. They would suffer, however, savers and even takers. Bank-making is not an ordinary enterprise where you risk your own capital and, if you are wrong with the organizational systems - and also economic - you pay yourself. Banking is a very delicate intermediary function between the money of savers and the money of takers, the money that is granted to those who need to develop enterprise and further productivity. And this very delicate function cannot be put back only to the indication of directors very often not legitimized by the property, when the property itself should be, in this system, all related to citizens and, therefore, to the free market sector. The delicacy of the function of banking, therefore - I repeat - when it has such a heavy impact on public accounts as those in our examination, must be the subject of continuous supervision. For this and for other functions - in particular, today almost only for this - there is the Bank of Italy and the European Bank should also exist. In particular, as regards the internal market, the Bank of Italy, having abdicated a whole range of powers after the establishment of the European Central Bank, should focus on supervisory activity. It seems to me that this has not been the case, or at least the effects of such activity have certainly not been effective. In fact, today we find ourselves - as I said - having to cover with public money resounding inefficiencies and bad administrations of the banking sector. What worries us most, however, is not so much going to ascertain responsibility for the past. And on this we absolutely agree, although we have not, for example, been in agreement with the transparency profiles contained in the draft law under consideration. We had asked that, alongside this measure, others should be adopted with regard to the lists of the great takers, with the names, that is, of those who, having obtained credit that they did not deserve, then determined the collapse of the institutions. And we had asked, of course, not for some kind of anxiety about direct and personal knowledge, but to see if, through these lists, we could identify additional responsibilities or connections that should never have existed. Having said that, we believe that the Commission is nonetheless positive, although it is late in approving its constitution and certainly very short in time, since we have insisted that work be closed by the end of this parliamentary term, and we continue to ask for it with the amendments that we will examine later. In our view, it is not conceivable that a committee of inquiry established in a parliamentary term can continue its work even in the next one. We are absolutely respectful of Parliament and its members, but not knowing what its composition will be in the next parliamentary term, we believe that the Commission's work should end within this parliamentary term. If the future Parliament wants to come back to this, it will be able to do so, and I hope it will be done in a more appropriate time. The Commission of Inquiry will have to address the question of transparency within the Rules of Procedure to be issued and with regard to the activities to be carried out. It will be able to give precise indications outside of what has happened, even if - I must say - for other Committees of Inquiry a great deal of attention to privacy and secrecy has never been adopted by this Parliament. And this is a question that, of course, we leave to those who read and can read parliamentary acts. But the Committee of Inquiry must also prevent events which have already happened in the past and which have certainly not been useful to the country's economy, with its proactive and not only retrospective aspects. I always take the example of what happened twenty years ago with the Banco di Napoli, which is very similar to today's Monte dei Paschi di Siena. At the time there was a clear desire to dismantle the largest bank in the Mezzogiorno, which certainly had its organisational flaws, had had its difficulties and also its compromises with the policy that had questioned its economic balance, but it certainly represented for all those territories a garrison not only historical, but precisely of activities linked to a difficult reality, which had and still needs special attention as regards the procedures that the banking system puts in place. The Banco di Napoli was dismantled and then packaged as a gift to those who had to buy it above the Po and its activities, especially in order to the so-called bad bank (i.e. the bank of the bad guys), were devastating throughout the territory of Southern Italy. The so-called match of doubt outcome were in fact enucleated - not only those already suffered, but also the so-called doubts results, the so-called credits difficult to due - and entrusted to the recovery by financial companies not better identified - or, better, identifiable, but here the speech would be long - that pressed on the economy of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises and on artisan and agricultural enterprises. These certainly did not have the aural parameters of the large lenders (Basel 1, Basel 2 and Basel 3), but instead had small assets, at the basis of their demands and the credits they were able to obtain, which were then irremediably attacked through the mechanism of disposal outside the bank credits in the hands of the so-called recoverers. This is a system that must be avoided also for the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. As far as efforts are made to say that it has its own economic balance and has only had its own liquidity crisis, certainly seven billion bonds immediately activated by the famous decree on the day it was issued - and, therefore, even before Parliament turned it into law and even with some institutional imprudence on the part of the Government - and issued with the guarantee of Italian citizens, and with that speed, they are proving that it is not true that the Monte dei Paschi had the accounts in order. We must avoid that the continuation of the activity of Monte dei Paschi leads to the same inconsistencies that already the credit history of our country has recorded on the occasion of the event of the Banco di Napoli and other banks. There was then a very precise plan of destruction of the southern credit, of the small and large southern credit, and of concentration of credit activities in the hands of some banking institutions above the Po (or perhaps at the time above the Arno, but today only above the Po). There was a precise strategy that was implemented with absolute determination and - I would like to say - almost cynicism. The result is that the South of Italy no longer has its own credit autonomy, it does not have its own credit structure - I would not like to be misunderstood in terms - and its own direct credit reference. The territories are abandoned. And the only contact that small and medium-sized enterprises can get with the world of credit is through the cooperative credit banks system. But even on that front there are winds of war - as they say - which suggest that soon that system will also be more enslaved to the logic of the great groups than to the service of the small entrepreneurs, who still constitute the main fabric of the national economy and, especially in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, the only hope of being able to truly recover an economy able to bear and support the storms and challenges of the future. We are therefore convinced that this Commission should be set up, but we have a great deal of concern about the fact that its institution has come so late to the final parliamentary decision. The measure has yet to be transmitted to the House, which we hope will be able to approve as soon as possible. We also know what the procedures and formalities for setting up this type of Commission are: the groups must indicate its components and very often at this stage who wants to waste time makes it waste; the Commission must therefore adopt its own regulation and give itself its own structure. We know, in short, how Parliament knows how to use time in a large way, when it wants, and how it knows, vice versa, how to synthesize work in a few days. It depends on the so-called political will that presides over all our initiatives and that is what really determines the length of time or the speed of our decisions. We will therefore certainly vote in favour of this measure, although we know that our amendments may not be accepted by the Government and the rapporteur. We are very disappointed that we did not want to have access to our request for the publication of the list of great takers, which arises not from a desire for controversy, but from a need for clarity on how many parts of the national economic system move, then leading to real misfortunes for the vast majority of citizens who refer, for their activities, to the banking system. [[Senator Floris' applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u18	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u19	Madam President, I am somewhat uncomfortable with a debate which is certainly important, because it concerns the future of the Italian banking system, which is very uncertain, as we have seen recently, and in particular in the last year. I am uncomfortable because we are talking about a subject that is certainly felt: the need to launch a Commission of Inquiry to check what has happened, what are the responsibilities and what corrections must be made by Parliament to prevent what has happened from happening again, namely the fraud committed to the detriment of many citizens is part of the banks and also of the Government - because of the choices it has made - and to ensure that the measures are not limited to the only ones - few for someone, but for us too many - families who are victims of the various rescue decrees banks approved in recent times. The Committee of Inquiry is necessary, but it is quite clear that we are out of time. It was to be launched more than a year ago and the political will of the Democratic Party to delay its launch is clear. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici]] I would like to recall some very significant dates, such as 22 November 2015, a year and a half ago, when the Government, from evening to morning, approved a decree-law, then ratified in December 2015, with which it established the principle that: in case of resolution of failed banks - I refer to the famous four banks - of course not for the responsibility of savers, but managers, the only one subject to the consequences of this affair should be the citizen saver. You with that decree-law have wiped out the confidence of savers in the banking system, from evening to morning, with a scam involving tens of thousands of families. You have then tried to provide absolutely partial and inadequate compensation, which has not satisfied the total number of families affected by the incident, and you have begun to submit legislative proposals for the launch of a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, starting from December 2015. After one and a half years of this incident, we are still in this House discussing whether or not we should adopt a text providing for the establishment of a one-year committee of inquiry, consisting of twenty Members and twenty senators. And the law that we are going to pass today or next week will also have to be passed by the House of Deputies and it is clear that it will be impossible for the Commission to reach its conclusions by the end of the parliamentary term. We spent the whole of 2016 in the Finance Committee holding a series of totally unnecessary hearings, with the sole aim of delaying what should have been done the day after the adoption of that famous decree-law of November 2015. And the Democratic Party deliberately proceeded with the work of the Commission with those delays because there was no desire to deepen the issue or to give answers to the tens of thousands of people who were conned. With the usual manfrina of the politics has taken time and today we are asked to launch a Commission that, with an expense of 150 000 euros, will start again the whole series of hearings already held in 2016 and will not finish its work during the legislature. In this way, the work begun by us will have to be resumed in the next parliamentary term, so that the new Members will have to start from scratch, dealing with all the hearings already held. Tell me whether this is a Commission of Inquiry and a serious measure or rather a farce, yet another insult to the dignity of the swindled families. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici.]] I am telling you quite clearly: either the majority will be willing to approve amendments setting certain dates for the completion of the proceedings of the Committee of Inquiry or the Northern League Group will not participate in this scene. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici.]] We can't make fun of Italian citizens. You've been the protagonists of it and you've done it in the last few years. You've caused a total distrust of savers in the banking system and made fun of them for too long. We will not be your accomplices. Is there a need for a Commission of Inquiry? It would have been necessary to launch it a year ago. We didn't want auditions, and you set them up. Why is this necessary? Because what has happened is dramatic, but it affects a few dozen thousand families and for you it is probably a ridiculous number compared to the millions of voters. A few tens of thousands of citizens can be sacrificed, because so much is not relevant to the fate of the elections of a government. On the other hand, we believe that the individual citizen who has been conned should also be protected. It is clear to everyone that there has been a responsibility of the managers of many banks, who have cheated citizens by selling products that it would not be fair to sell them and of which they did not know the risks. There have also been too many comminglings between politics and the banking system: it has been said before, but it is a reality. There have been managers who have loaned tens or hundreds of millions of euros to large business groups without the necessary guarantees, but simply for opportunities, political friendship or even for relations between politicians and entrepreneurs who have obtained that funding. Instead, we know that thousands of families and craftsmen today do not get loans from banks. There is an obvious disparity and, if holes have been created within the banks, it is certainly not the responsibility of savers or small entrepreneurs in difficulty, but of the perverse mechanism that you have implemented shamefully. Then there is another responsibility, political responsibility. The crisis of the banking system is not in fact an end in itself, it was not born out of nothingness, but it is simply a consequence of the crisis of our economy of the country system. And here there are precise political responsibilities. And it is the political responsibilities of that ruling class that, at the beginning of 2000, sold national interests to Europe with the introduction of the euro, with a system that in fact made our companies no longer competitive, many of which fail to pay the loans obtained by banks for the simple reason of being put out of the market. And this isn't about managers, who have other responsibilities, but it's about the leadership class of the Democratic Party that ruled that path. With the introduction of the euro a perverse system has been created, in which a whole of countries has a single currency with different tax systems, with different labour costs, with different bureaucracy models, with different forms of civil justice, with an absolutely different amount of public debt. I believe that there are no States in the world today - and they have never existed in the past - a State, a nation or a Federation of States with a common currency and at the same time the whole system of treatment of companies so different that they make some companies and some business models competitive and throw others totally out of the market. This was your choice and it is a precise responsibility of Italian politics. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is clear that in Italy this was the real cause of the crisis of our entrepreneurial system. There aren't any more. In Italy there is still a willingness to do business and work, there is still the ability to do business. Everyone recognizes Italian workers to work well, to be people who can produce wealth and create innovation. The problem is that we live in a country where, due to the introduction of the euro, an abnormal public debt and a very high level of taxation, companies have been thrown out of the market. This is clearly the cause of the disruption of the banking system. The companies were no longer able to repay their loans. We have lost 10% of GDP in recent years. So, Mr President, we are dealing with serious, very serious issues, but in the wrongest way possible. Politics is mocking - for the umpteenth time - the citizens, saying in words and with draft laws that they want to deal with real problems, but in reality, with the delays desired and sought, it has become complicit in what is happening. I say clearly to the rapporteur, whom I respect, that we do not want to participate in this farce in such a petty way. It is clear - and he knows this, as all the members of the Finance and Treasure Commission know - that the Democratic Party does not have the will to complete the work of this Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici]] And this has been evident since the first day. There was a passage in which it was thought that the Commission of Inquiry was no longer necessary because it seemed, in the face of the hearings, that everything was in order and in order. The representatives of Banca d'Italia and Consob have, in fact, candidly said that they had done their work correctly, that they had done all the necessary checks in recent years, that they had commissionerized some banks and, therefore, from their point of view, everything has been carried out regularly. Excuse me, but if everything has been done regularly, we do not understand how it was possible to arrive at interventions, such as those adopted, which caused the failure of four banks, a difficult rescue for Monte dei Paschi di Siena and a dramatic situation of Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza. One could say - as is said in some cases - that the operation has been successful, but the patient is dead. This is what happened with respect to the protection of savers and what was to be the role of Consob and Banca d'Italia, which were to protect those who had confidence and invested their savings in banks that instead betrayed their expectations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, I hope that the Democratic Party will accept the amendments which will set a certain date for the completion of the work of the Commission of Inquiry and in this respect proposals have been tabled by all the Opposition Groups. We have proposed that this date should correspond to the end of this year, at the end of 2017, with a view to having the legislature take its natural course; in any case, we have proposed that the work should end within the legislature. If these amendments are adopted, then an attempt can be made to respond within the term of the legislature and, therefore, to work seriously, to respect the needs of the citizens and the need to clarify. If they are not accepted, then it will become quite clear that the Democratic Party, the majority and the Government are for the umpteenth time mocking Italian citizens with a measure that should give answers, but that instead it is absolutely inadequate, unworkable and that it will have to continue in the next legislature with a total waste of time and public money. This Commission, however, will entail costs and, if there is no desire to get it to work within this parliamentary term, we will avoid spending EUR 150 000: it would be yet another slap on the face of those who still have confidence in the institutions. The debate that will be held today will lead to a correction of what has been written in the text or will be yet another proof of the inadequacy of the political class and its lack of respect for the citizens. It would be yet another stain to those who still have faith in the institutions. I hope that there will be a willingness to improve this text, and I very much hope so. If the corrections are made, our vote will of course be in favour. If that does not happen, I repeat that the North League will not participate in the farce vote of this bill [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by non-formally thanking President Mauro Maria Marino, the rapporteur for this measure, for the long work he has done this year in the Finance Committee on the subject of banks and the Commission of Inquiry. In a sound and functioning economy, banks need an intangible asset, which is not subject to the strict rules of supervision and must not overcome stress tests, but which is equally important, if not even to a greater extent, of the same financial capital. This intangible asset is called trust: the confidence of savers in the Italian banking system. Trust is a significant capital for Italians perhaps even more than for others, as it has always been a people of savers. Moreover, the protection of savings is a good rightly enshrined in Article 47 of our Constitution. In recent years this confidence has been put to the test by the economic and financial crisis that began with the outbreak of the subprime mortgage scandal of 2008, by the opacity, by the cunnings, by the mischiefs and by the many managements that are now rightly the subject of judicial investigations (currently there are 12 prosecutors who are investigating this issue). Today, in the Senate, we have a duty to contribute first and foremost to rebuild this trusted capital and the Commission of Inquiry can be a useful tool to make clarity, to rip off the veil of hypocrisy and complicity on some authentic wormholes of conflicts of interest, of bad management, of systematic scams against consumers-saving agents. However, the Commission of Inquiry can and must also help to distinguish wheat from rye, because there are also banks, bankers and banks that have not lost their compass in these years of madness and have maintained the sobriety and the sacred respect of the customer who in the past were the amount of good management of a bank. The Commission of Inquiry does not start from scratch (the President of the Finance Commission, Mauro Maria Marino, has mentioned this and I would like to stress this): the survey is a solid basis of departure and will certainly be able to help the Commissioners of the future Commission. But what the Commission of Inquiry cannot and must not do - and I would like to say this clearly - is to increase distrust of the banking system, because the risk to the country system would be dramatically significant. The Commission of Inquiry cannot be used as a clava to launch intimidating messages. In this regard, the statements made by a former President of the Council on pebbles and quarries concern us, not least. In the same way, I must say that I am also concerned about what I heard from the 5 Star Movement this morning, where very different things have been mixed. I would like to remind the citizens who listen to us that being a member of an advisory board, that is, of an independent, consultative and strategic body, that does not deal with management, is something quite different from being - as has been remembered for a case - vice president, that is vice president of a bank, with an operational and managerial task. We need to be very careful, just to avoid making all the grass a bundle. Our Article 1 Group, democratic and progressive movement, will therefore participate in the Committee of Inquiry in a much different spirit, with the aim of making its contribution to putting the saver and transparency at the centre of the system and to clearly identify the responsibilities of those who not only destroyed the material capital and the savings of so many people and destroyed several banks, but also seriously damaged the intangible capital of trust in the banking system. So we will not lend ourselves - as we say today with clarity and clarity - to improper and propagandistic uses of the Commission of Inquiry's activity in the long year of the electoral campaign before us. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u23	Madam President, I would have liked to begin my speech by speaking exclusively of the value of this Commission of Inquiry, but the two speeches by my fellow Members, Mr Cappelletti and Mr Tosato, oblige me to make two remarks which I consider to be important, in relation to a prejudice which arises from their statements this morning and which, in my opinion, places the need for a clearer presentation of what is in the interest and will of this Parliament and this Government in setting up a Commission of Inquiry with this value. First of all, it must be said that a Commission of Inquiry normally swims between mountains of documents and between conflicting and controversial versions. It is a heavy work, it is a work of analysis, study and meeting, which does not stand in opposition to the judiciary, but in some cases manages to be useful to the judiciary itself. It is a work that does not start from the will of prejudice and that does not start from prejudiced condemnations by political subjects or other involved, only to see a fork hang. And here I am referring to the words expressed by the two colleagues. With regard to what Senator Cappelletti said, I note that those who saw (in the 5 Star Movement) in the failure to establish this Commission confirm an alleged will, for them always denounced in all public fora, not to proceed to a clarity and transparency on causes and remedies related to the events occurred in the banking and financial system, but today it changes strategy. It tells us that this Commission is not needed; it has been told: "We'll do it." The 5 Star Movement already has sentences ready and built, without endorsement of any documentation or testimony. Senator Cappelletti, the fathers of law would rightly state that this is the way to behave in a dictatorship and not in a democracy. I am frightened, because making judgments without studying papers and acts means one thing: being part of a forkhouse state from which I personally detach myself and to which I oppose. Banks cannot be useful only for certain purposes and cannot be good only if they finance certain blogs, of course. [[Comments of Senator Cappelletti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u24	Senator Cappelletti, please let my colleague speak. You have already spoken quietly and everyone has the right to express their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u25	PUPPATE (PD). I would like to remind Mr Tosato of two important things. It will probably be disappointed after its critical and negative extension that this Commission will last for one year. He will be disappointed, because his only amendment (or, if it is not his, some other amendment of the kind) which provides for the conclusion of the report in this parliamentary term could be adopted. So all this insane and preliminary criticism has no sense of existence. Senator Tosato, colleagues Lega, I was present in the assemblies of Veneto Banca, both as mayor and as shareholder of that bank, and I remember well the highest representatives of the League who stood up with an ovation expressed by the very nourished assemblies, composed of several thousand people, when it was said that the supervision of the Bank of Italy was vexatory towards the board of directors and the presidency of those banks. [[Applause from Senator Saggese.]] It would be necessary to have historical memory, because someone in this House - and it was not us - also said that the Italian banking system was very solid and almost rejected with contempt and ridicule the funds that could be made available by a Europe that (Senator Tosato, since 2007 and not since 2011) saw the beginning of the reality of the global financial crisis, which then also gave rise to the labour crisis and the economic crisis that we have experienced. I would also like to point out that when we express ourselves in this way we do not have the right spirit. I tell you this because the work will not be easy: we will be forced, in a very short time (every six months, moreover, a report to Parliament is planned, so we will already know in six months the work that this Commission is doing) to see whether it will be useful to achieve the aims we aim, as set out in Article 3 of the Commission's founding law. So, let's be serious. I would like to recall the model of a Commission of Inquiry which, in our country, has shaken the very foundations of the institutions and the political reality of this country: I am referring to the one on P2, directed by Tina Anselmi. You will say that the comparison is excessive; of course, but you have taught us something that has been denied in this House today by the speeches I have heard, namely that what is needed within a Commission of Inquiry, and who is applying to join it, is subtle, underground, silent, profitable work, aimed at achieving the objectives given, done with courage, intelligence and determined work. It is not, as I have heard, a work simply functional to communicate outside guilts of Guy or Caius, anticipating the final decisions. It seems to me that there is a wrong spirit in this House when certain elements are already insinuated at the fault and responsibility of some. We must start with a clean slate, that is, from the facts, simply taking note of what has happened and, in relation to this, intervening to analyze the situation and identify the remedies. They need, therefore, exactly the things we have written. We need to clarify whether the levels of fairness in the placement of products to the public, in particular to small savers, and of compliance with the already existing obligations regarding the correctness of information to investors have been achieved or not. Evidently not, someone might say. But we must start from this, from the need to understand. As far as the effectiveness of the supervisory activity is concerned, we will not make discounts, but it is clear that we will not give any prior judgment. We need to assess the adequacy of the Italian and European legislative and regulatory rules themselves: let us not forget that our function, I would say the most important motivation of a Commission of inquiry, is precisely to identify any changes to the rules, laws and regulations on which we have competence. We must, in fact, prevent situations such as those that have occurred, with the necessary legislative corrections. The Commission will not have to replace the judiciary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. PUPPATE (PD). This Commission, precisely with its birth, notes the importance that all this very high political assembly wants to assign to restoring credibility and confidence in the entire financial and banking system, through the verification of the serious and important events that have occurred, the consequent operational needs to prevent them from happening again and, above all, the protection of the weakest, be they savers or any other person involved in this reality. I hope that this Commission will give the light and that it will act as a mirrored and very, very responsible figure within it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u26	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I would like to ask for permission to attach my speech, because I have changed it also on the basis of the last reflections I have heard in this House, on which I intend, in turn, to make brief comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u28	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u29	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the President of the 6th Commission, Mauro Maria Marino, and all my colleagues who have spoken. I was particularly impressed by two aspects: firstly, there was talk in this House of the weakness of the Italian banking system; secondly, it was said that we have dealt very much with banks. It is true that there is a weak banking system, but let us question for a moment what has happened in the past. What have Parliament and the policy been doing to protect Italians and the banking system, or at least to put them under control for them to behave properly? They first approved Law No 218 of 30 July 1990, known as the Amato-Carli Act, which initiated a process of change in the Italian banking system and, subsequently, Decree-Law No 386 of 5 December 1991, converted into Law No 35 of 29 January 1992 for the privatisation of credit institutions and public bodies and subsequent privatisation of the Bank of Italy. In this way the Government not only made Italy lose its monetary sovereignty, depriving the Italians of an essential asset that is the difference between the real and commercial power of the currency, but even eliminated serious control by the Bank of Italy over the commercial activity, that is, the financial and economic activity of banks and credit institutions: a very serious fact. But there was also another important fact, to which we do not give the right weight. Even before in America the then American President promulgated, in 1999, the law of banking separation, in Italy Draghi thought of it, allowing the banks to make a great confusion and to operate without any limit in the incorrect management of the finances of the Italian Country and the Italian citizens. In fact, what happened within Italy in 1993, before even in the United States? There was a regulation that no longer existed the separation of banks, no longer existed the distinction between commercial banks and business banks operating from the point of view of investment, and the possibility was given to them to operate indiscriminately in both areas. What has happened since then to today? It has happened that the bankers have been able to put in place behaviors not very correct, pretending, in case - as often happens - the commercial operations do not succeed, the socialization of the loss. The bank invests: if it goes wrong it pays the Italian citizen; if it goes well cash without giving account to anyone. This was allowed by the Italian State, with Parliament's complicity, precisely in 1993. Even before 1993, the Italian Government, led by Giuliano Amato, became bearer of another principle, then strengthened within Parliament, the Senate and the Chamber, having passed a law that makes the Italian country lose its monetary sovereignty and control over the correct and incorrect activities carried out by the Italian banking institutions. 11:01 a.m. (ISGRO SHILIPOTS) Today we ask ourselves what is going on. Just look at what was done a few years ago and take a position: return monetary sovereignty to Italy, give back to the Bank of Italy the serious control over credit institutions operating on national territory and separate banks into commercial banks and business banks. Who wants to invest, invest: if it goes well he earns, if it goes badly he pays and does not ask for the socialization of the debt. All these are just words. I must then intervene in this Chamber to remind my colleagues that they are much more Christian than I am and have a Jewish-Christian mentality and culture, that within the Gospel, precisely in the Gospel according to Luke, there was a character, a certain Zacchaeus, who did nothing but collect tributes and often behaved badly. But when he realizes that something actually exists that goes beyond materiality and is called Christ, then he seeks to repent, seeking refuge in the Christian faith. What does this Zacchaeus do? He turns to Christ, who at first pretends not to see and not hear. Then, after some time, Zacchaeus calls him and confesses to Jesus, calling him Master, that he has wronged his brothers and asks what he must do in order to be immediately in line with his way of thinking and with the logic of the Christian faith. But he already knows and there is no need for Christ to ask him: he knows that he has to give back four times as much what he has stolen. What should we, who belong to the Christian faith, do? When I say "noi" I turn to the captains, to those who manage the savings and are called bankers: we should return what has been stolen: we do not ask the bankers to give back four times as much, so that they would have to apologize and return what they have stolen. From that moment when they become aware, they should behave in the correct way and as their religion prescribes, in case they are of Christian religion or rather profess Jewish-Christian thought. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u30	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all, I would like to make it clear that the first text presented in this House concerning a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system is signed by Senator Martelli and bears the date of 30 April 2013. So let us stop saying that the former President of the Council had the brilliant idea of making a committee of inquiry, because it is false. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Secondly, we spent two years in the Finance Committee working on two surveys of the banking system. I repeat: it took us two years. The first survey ended in November, before the four-bank package arrived. Then we started another one right away and lost another year. In fact, starting from the knowledge acquired through the first survey, the work of the Commission of Inquiry could be started immediately. No, we didn't. We waited. Why did we wait? Because we are constantly in the electoral campaign, both outside and within the Groups. We cannot forget, in fact, that within the Democratic Party group there has been, since Mr Renzi arrived, an internal war, a war between the old and the new PD, both guilty of having somehow interfered both with the actual banking activity, going to get into the boards of directors, banks and management, both with the measures that have been enacted over the years in favor of the banking system. The original problem, however, is another one and is represented by all the acts that were done before, when you, the majority, joined the European system, the European banking supervision and the European Banking Union in Basel. Our banking system and our entrepreneurs were not ready, as the Italian citizens were not ready to pay for the mistakes of the administrators. Now, we arrive in 2017, at the end of the legislature, with the intention of doing the Commission of Inquiry. Stop lying! We have tabled a number of amendments because we believe that a Commission of Inquiry is useful and so, in some way, we have tried to adjust the shot. We have expressed our desire to conclude the work of the Commission of Inquiry by the end of the current parliamentary term, even though we know that we will only have six months. If, however, we establish that the work of this Commission must be completed by the end of the 17th legislature, at the time when the Chambers are dissolved, this Commission will have a duty to meet and draw conclusions and thus, in some way, to demonstrate whether it has been effective or not. So we delete the reference to "one year" and set this term, thus demonstrating to the citizens that they want to do something. We then tabled a number of amendments relating to the composition of the Commission. In fact, if there are any court cases for crimes related to the banking system, do we consider them as possible members of the Committee of Inquiry to investigate the mistakes made by banks? That sounds crazy. So we have tried to prevent those connected with the banking system from being part of the Commission of Inquiry. Sounds normal to us. Then we asked, given what emerges from the investigations and even if we do not want to replace the judiciary in which we believe, for the Commission of Inquiry to verify what political interferences have been there because we know well, as has been said before, that some politicians have entered both the boards of directors and as partners and, therefore, it is right to check. In this Commission of inquiry, moreover, there is not much investigation into the supervisory system, that is, the Bank of Italy and Consob and we know well, given the two cognitive investigations, that Consob and supervision have not done their duty. The current banking situation is that one out of every five banks has more trouble and more pain than their own capital. I understand why Senator Puppato gets very agitated and says that every once in a while we get out, but if she was mayor she saw very well how much they had to suffer from Italian citizens and we do not want to make fun of them, also because with the possible privatization of Cassa deposits and loans we no longer go to protect the Italian savings, but to give it to anyone and until we see a perfect text we will continue to fight for Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u33	Mr President, fellow senators, the Government, finally comes to this House an expected, necessary measure, but above all due to the Italians to whom, just a few days before Christmas, the Government and this majority wanted to make a great gift: as many as 20 billion new debt to be placed on their shoulders and their children, to give oxygen to asfittic banks brought to the failure by managers appointed by the left. Well, not only is it not yet clear whether and which banks will use these funds, but above all, because of the PD's manoeuvres, it has not been possible to follow the just will expressed unanimously by this House on the need to shed light on the management disasters of that financial world. I would like to remind the majority of the government - which unfortunately does not sit at this time among the benches of the Senate, but I leave these words to posterity to future memory because the others present is certainly known - that our Constitution in Article 47 provides that the Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms; discipline, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. Dear friends of the PD who have always been passionate about finance, with the words "checks the exercise of credit" it is not intended to concentrate in their hands, but to monitor and guarantee. I understand that it is a difficult concept for you to understand, given that in your ranks even those who said "we have a bank" are militant. Left and economy has always been a highly harmful combination for the country: already with Prodi the Italians paid out of their pocket the sale of companies-jewel and the creation of wheelchairs functional only to the management of power for the power and the creation of comfortable armchairs for the leaders of the party. Even with the banks, history repeats itself; in November 2007 the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the oldest bank in the world, began its decline with the announcement of the acquisition of Banca Antonveneta for an official figure of nine billion euros. It already figures higher than the real value of the bank, which then increased to 10,3 billion euros because of the charges of the operation, to which were added, finally, another 7,5 billion debts of Antonveneta itself. An operation of almost 18 billion without any management motivation, but justified only for political purposes; ends that, of course, will weigh on the fate of the bank by undermining its assets also following the provision of easy financing to prominent figures of the left, including the De Benedetti, whose father, due to the debt contracted by Sorgenia, will be one of the major architects of the failure of the MPS group, and whose son is still today an honourable Member of the PD. How to forget, finally, the duo Renzi-Padoan that guaranteed on the good health of the institute defining it an excellent deal and inviting the Italians to invest their savings in this bank only a few days before the actual failure. Now, however, Parliament must implement its prerogatives, emancipate itself also from the control of the Government and establish what did not work, understand who the responsibilities are, clarify the management of the entire system, but above all provide the Italians, who paid that 20 billion, clear and comprehensive information. Transparency, responsibility and awareness: all instances already presented by Forza Italia to the so-called saving decree, with which we asked for the publication of the names of the principal debtors, the blocking of the millionaire bonus to the managers who caused discord and the counting of the use of the funds. Requests that, of course, clashed with the deafness of the government that, as usual, tried to escape by imposing the question of trust. Requests that we are now returning to and that we will pursue with the Commission of Inquiry: an indispensable tool to make that necessary clarity about the evils of a small part of the financial world that has, however, undermined the image of the same when, on the contrary, the majority of the Italian banking system consists of solid institutions to which the Italians can quietly give confidence for the management of their savings. Trust, however - it is known - is fragile and, as Sartre said, is gained drop by drop, but is lost to liters. Well, we in this House are now called upon to ensure that that confidence does not disperse. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u34	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u35	Mr President, I believe that we must address this issue by always maintaining balance and attention to the matter we are dealing with. I have listened to speeches that I considered useful as contributions, even with a different perspective and political assessment of the situation; other speeches, on the other hand, have frankly gone beyond what is the limit of propaganda that can be understood at certain times. The theme of banks has a fundamental value for us: it is the only financing channel we have in our country for the economy, for our businesses and for families. We are the country with the highest saving capacity in the world and we understand well the delicacy and importance of this sector. A sector which, moreover, has demonstrated capacity and solidity, despite everything that has been said, and which has maintained a condition of strength in our system, while facing a crisis such as the one we have faced and from which we are beginning to emerge. The Commission of Inquiry whose institution we are going to approve is a Commission which benefits from a work done by a cognitive survey in the Finance Committee, which has not been wasted time: and it is regrettable that colleagues define it that way. In fact, we have laid down the conditions for doing useful and quick work for the Commission of Inquiry and for giving results. In the founding law, the task of the Commission of Inquiry was well indicated: to verify the effects on the banking system of the global financial crisis; the consequences of the worsening of sovereign debt; the management of the banking institutions involved in crisis situations or failings and recipients of public resources; the effectiveness of the supervision activity on the banking and financial system, as well as the adequacy of the legislative and regulatory discipline in the sector; the investigative activity required in acts and documents with the various obligations and competences as they are regulated. Of course, this is a Commission of Inquiry which has precise tasks and is indicated by our legal system; it has a nature which means that it cannot be exchanged for a judicial body, which has the task, not to judge, but to collect information and data necessary for the performance of the functions of the Chambers; information which represents that element of knowledge which allows Parliament and the Government to intervene effectively. But the best thing is to read the conclusions of the final document approved in the Finance Committee on the cognitive survey, because it is the conclusions of the Commission's draft law, which give a sense of how we want to deepen and address all those issues which, in a controversial way, have been put in this debate as if they wanted to be eluded. The text reads: Without prejudice to the validity of the assumptions set out in the survey carried out (...), the guidelines to be followed in the investigation could be: the forms, modalities, objectives and effectiveness of the supervision of banks with regard to the stability of the system and transparency; the analysis of the management of banks against the scenarios opened in Italy by the financial crisis of sovereign debt; the methods of collection of the provision and the instruments used; the criteria of remuneration of managers and the implementation of transactions related to parties liable to conflict of interest; the placing in the public of financial products with particular reference to banking obligations also in relation to aspects of civil and criminal importance; the forms of credit provision to particularly important lenders and the dissemination of unfair practices of matching credit provision and sale of shares or other financial instruments of the bank, including in relation to aspects of criminal civil importance; the structure of costs, the restructuring of the management model, the policy of aggregation and fusion. All these conclusions, which form the political part of the survey, are within the competence of the Commission of Inquiry. Therefore, so many statements made here today really do not have any meaning and foundation. This system has demonstrated resilience and resilience to the enormous shocks we have experienced. And we have intervened with a number of important measures precisely because this system, with the worsening of the crisis and precisely because it finances the real economy, has seen an important increase in the problem of deteriorated loans, which have therefore weighed down the banks. And rightly the new rules to protect savers have meant that the margin of profitability of the banks would decrease more and more, to the point of creating an important difficulty, with a number of knots that have come to the comb. We have therefore intervened with important measures to strengthen the banking system: I recall the reforms relating to popular banks, cooperative banks and other interventions that have also been mentioned controversially. I would like to remind you that the decree-law of November 2015, which has been indicated by several parties and in several interventions as if who knows what had produced, was actually an intervention that became necessary (and it was appropriate to act this way) before the entry into force of the Bank recovery and resolution directive (BRRD) precisely to remove banks from the ordinary winding-up procedure, being these already commissioners. An alternative had been set between the complete choice and the liquidation, which would have involved total costs of 12 billion euros, the interruption of all the lines of credit with immediate request of return of the entrusted ones, the dismissal of the employees and important effects on specific territorial markets on which the concentration of the criticalities is found. This is what the intervention consisted of. After that, however, it is said that we must not make savers pay for the problems of management, the problems of banks that are in difficulty or even in distress. There is a measure against which resources are made available in order to prevent situations of liquidity crisis or capitalisation problems that may become worse, even in situations where there is no default or crisis, but where, due to general system problems and general conditions, some banks may be in a pre-difficult condition. We therefore begin to anticipate and approve a measure that can intervene in a preventive way on both liquidity and capitalization, precisely to prevent citizens, businesses and savers from having problems arising from issues that are then generated also by an asymmetry between the real condition of the bank and what is the reaction of the market to a series of problems and information that can then put in crisis the bank. That's not good either. We are talking about a supply of limited resources that serves to protect savers. I also hear speeches about our commitment and about the fact that we throw money for the banks and we do not find it for the citizens, but I would point out that we made a speech some time ago on the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which was entirely returned to the state; we talked about this provision to prevent the crisis, as well as interventions planned to try to compensate the citizens. If we go to see the European panorama and look at the first economy in Europe, the German economy, we see that Germany's estimates of intervention to rescue its banking system, in the years when others from us (who were in the government and who today hear in this House say everything and the opposite of everything) then said that we did not need to intervene, it was about 200 billion euros and we are talking about the first economy in the Eurozone. I leave out other aspects, but objectively I cannot hear Senator Cappelletti say and then Senator Bottici, that I understand they want to present things in a certain way, that it is already all written, that the results, the sentences and who are the culprits are already written. This is a mode that is already taking hold in television formats where there is no contradiction, but here in Parliament, fortunately, there is still the possibility of a confrontation and a democratic procedure. Instead, I would urge Senator Tosato not to go beyond a certain limit, because the things he said about the euro and the competitiveness of companies have absolutely nothing to do with it. The competitiveness of our system has been at a standstill since the 1990s and has long been a huge difficulty, which is now being sheltered even with a gigantic renewal of the wealth of industrial machinery, which is very old and contributes to low productivity. If we want to talk about competitiveness on international markets, never as in recent years the trade balance of Italy has had remarkable results, with the capacity of a country to manufacturing economy and with the ability to export on all world markets, so we must not denigrate the strength of our industrial system. Returning to the bank, I believe there is a willingness to confront us in serious terms on the issues posed, such as that of the term: we want to face it positively and I believe that the President and the Government will take care of it. We want to come to conclusions: the basis that we have, namely the cognitive survey, is very solid and broad to address a very sensitive issue in a correct way. The protection of savers is based on our attitude as parliamentarians engaged in the Commission of Inquiry and Evaluation of Results, otherwise we will be the first to endanger the savings of citizens. [[Applause from Senators Morgoni and Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u36	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a disaster of inestimable proportions, between people directly involved and economic induced. What I would like to highlight most, with regret and sadness, is that the activation of this Committee of Inquiry comes too late: I filed the request for a Commission of Inquiry on the Mount of the Paschi of Siena in August 2013 and that on the banks of Veneto in September 2016. A serious and heinous crime has been committed, which has led to despair, with suicides; a multitude of entrepreneurs, fathers and mothers of the family. The situation of the Veneto Region, already largely compromised, is as precarious as ever: many people stop me on the street emphasizing their bewilderment; many people cried before my eyes for the loss of the savings of a life. I am afraid that this provision will come too late: people with water in their throats have accepted the compromise, with bitterness in their mouths as to the fact that the State is no longer such and has abandoned its citizens. You must know, ladies and gentlemen, that the officials of the People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank have asked with several phone calls all the savers shareholders - almost all the elderly - involved in this disaster. They set out apocalyptic scenarios, forcing them to sign up and accept that lowly 15 percent. It seemed absurd, among other things, that before the presentation of my bill no one had ever raised the problem (I say of course of the Venetian banks). The common feeling of my territory is that it has been completely abandoned in a bipartisan way, yet the losses have figures of vertigo: it is estimated to be around 19 billion euros, many more than those of the Parmalat crac to the detriment of the 210,000 savers shareholders (and I always speak of the Venetian banks). How could it have happened that in just a few months the two institutions, which have always been considered a flagship of our economy, have become so restricted and with the urgency of intervention by the Atlas Fund to avoid bankruptcy? There are really dark points, on which we must shed light: what role has the Bank of Italy played? What role did Consob play? And what role did the ECB play? While everything was consumed before the inexperienced eyes of all those shareholders convinced that their savings were safe, what did the Renzi Government do? With the law launched in 2015 it forced the ten largest Italian popular banks to become SpA. Opening up to an ultraliberal market in economic asymmetries, well studied at a coffee table with the Brussels Treaties, was doubly deleterious. The fact remains that the loans, hundreds of millions from the People's Bank of Vicenza for the purchase of own shares, were only issued at the beginning of 2015, when the supervision of the Venetian institute became the responsibility of the ECB in Frankfurt. Is that gonna be a coincidence? And will it be a coincidence that, no longer having any kind of sovereignty, in the face of the increasingly overwhelming power of the European financial markets, executives are constantly flying abroad to negotiate with the ECB? The European Commission is now discussing in the first instance the new bank bailouts in Italy and it is always the Community Executive that is negotiating a restructuring plan with the Italian Government, as if the Italian State were to be content to beg the crumbs of Brussels, when it is known, for example, that Germany has paid billions to save its banks, while we are foreclosed. All successive governments have equal responsibilities: they were aware of the future disaster announced and, despite that, they turned their heads on the other side, pretending not to see; and now, the situation is finally compromised. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] In spite of everything, I am in favour of setting up this Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u38	We greet students and professors of the Liceo Scientifico "Leonardo da Vinci" in Trento. [[Applause.]] We also greet students and teachers of the Technical Institute of Commerce (Francesco Viganò) in Merate, in the province of Lecco, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u39	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u40	Mr President, the rivers of words that have been wasted on the subject that we are dealing with leave the truth perplexed. Unless there are candid souls, we all know in this House that when we do not want to do one thing, a Commission of Inquiry is appointed, from here to twelve months, to a majority relationship, with a minority counter-relationship, or to an ecumenical "pateracchio" made of winged thoughts, absolutely useless to unveil crimes or crimes and above all to reclaim a management system, son of the usual statism. I say this because there is a pervicacious will in this House that can be seen from those on the left who still believe in collectivism, in socialism, in the primacy of the state over the individual. We do not understand, however, why others who profess to be other believers, many of whom even liberal, fail to grasp the essence of the problem of statism, which has as its distinctive element the fact of privatising profits and advertising losses. What else are state participations and what else have been to this side for 50 years? The banks, like the large state industries, are used to facilitate access to credit for friends and customers, i.e. the holders of votes for this or that Member of Parliament, this or that party which at that time has the management of the bank. This happened with the Banco di Napoli, with Cirino Pomicino and Ventriglia. The Banco di Napoli, when it was sold, had a debt of 5,000 billion of the old lire. This collapse was due to the cheerful granting of credits to people who could not claim credit from that entity because, against them, there were no real guarantees. The Monte dei Paschi di Siena is an emblematic example of the bank voted on the left, as once was the National Labour Bank. The latter allowed itself to give 200 million lire to Columbia University so that Furio Colombo, who today flogged public costumes, could be a teacher at the University. It was 200 million lire from Italian taxpayers. I am saying this in order to prevent hypocrisy in this House from overcoming even common sense. A journalist, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, asked Karl Popper when the stock exchange would open in Moscow; he replied that a stock exchange would be opened in Moscow and the banks when a democratic method, a democratically elected government and institutions could establish rules for the supervision of the banking system and the free trade system would be established. In fact, we know - liberal economists know - that when the state has no rules, the freedom of wolves is the death of lambs. What happened with the Mount of the Paschi of Siena? What has happened has also happened with the Banco di Napoli and the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro: a number of individuals and companies have been encouraged. De Benedetti is among these and it would be really unelegant to remember Silvio Berlusconi's famous conflict of interests, which was a matter compared to the millions given to Carlo De Benedetti and his children by these banks. This is the real conflict of interest. I was saying that, in a system like this, in which a bank is used for purposes that have nothing to do with the mechanisms that govern the market economy, it is clear that one gets to the point where the state has to refuse money in order to prevent the bank from "regressing" on accountants and shareholders. Where does this wreck come from? The origin is not that indicated by Senators Mineo, De Cristofaro or Fornaro and by anyone who still believes in that type of state model. Such a breakdown comes from the fact that monetarism is not a failure of capitalism itself. Monetaryism and the financial economy have become what they are today, with all the consequent repercussions on world economies, because a gentleman - Bill Clinton - authorized business banks to make commercial banks. Business banks that produced securities and paper rags that could be placed on the market thus began to sell directly to customers, which they could not do before. From here the production of this waste paper has been generated, four or five times more than the real guarantees placed to cover the actions (which practically with the future had become even forecasts). It was a bit like playing SuperEnalotto or Totocalcio, because you went to buy shares related to a given product or company trying to predict in the next six months would have recorded positive or negative signs in your balance sheet. That's it. It is not capitalism itself that holds this disaster. In fact, capitalism, like monetarism, needs rules in order to be properly exercised. When politics puts its hands in the market, it does so not in order to respect the rules of the market, the demand and the supply and the legitimate interests of the operators, but in order to benefit the one who at that moment holds the reins of the Government and represents the State. Statalism breaks the ethical link that exists within the free market. Therefore, when banks are political instruments, their action is political and does not move on the relationship of reciprocity of interests between a banker who lends money and an entrepreneur who takes it to be able to invest it. I have not listened to these words here. We all look like the Candide of Voltaire in thinking that the establishment of a committee of inquiry will solve these problems. The problem is solved by a strong policy, restoring the rules that can prevent business or commercial banks from selling rag paper. Political power is in here. Certain mechanisms must be prevented at source. But when the bank is wrong, it must fail, because, in order to save perhaps 10,000 people, we are undue for 20 billion the entire Italian people. And we're all responsible for that. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u41	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u42	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u43	Mr President, therefore, we have here requests to set up a Commission of Inquiry which dates one, that of Mr Martelli, on 30 April 2013 and the other, of myself, on 27 June 2013. I would therefore like to start by talking about a principle, also to clarify everything that has been said in this House. This is a principle which concerns the responsibility of those who, however, must have assessed that they were inappropriate by standing before two draft laws with the request to set up a Commission of Inquiry. At the end of the day, we were new to politics and just entered this Parliament, perhaps even a little undervalued or undervalued: two senators, both teachers - one of mathematics and the other of Latin and Greek - who allowed themselves to make the request for the establishment of a commission of inquiry on two banks. But what do they matter? What interest can they have? And no one has emphasized their demands. Then in 2014, fortunately, with the transposition of European directives through the law of European delegation, we were obliged to introduce rules. Subsequently the case of the various banks exploded, which involved the involvement of subjects who were very close or who were within the Government; this clearly was a great scandal, which led to the public evidence that there was a problem of banks. Here, this problem of banks, these two senators, together with the other colleagues, had raised it in 2013, with two very precise objectives: it was to put under the microscope the Mount of Paschi (for a number of reasons) and the Banco di Desio (which had been condemned for a number of other reasons), to check the real functioning of the supervisory system. This was not done, but it should have been done; I would like all the senators who intervened to acknowledge at least that they did not want to do so. Then they can say that they did not want to do it because they thought we were cowards, while we were ahead, or that they did not want to do it because they did not want to face this problem. When, at last, more than a year ago, these draft laws arrived (there was a mountain, a river of various and different bills on the individual banks and the banking system in general that arrived in the Finance Committee), here is a discussion: what do we do with all these draft laws? I went to the Finance Committee to support - perhaps annoyingly - the validity of restricting the issue and working immediately on the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry, so that it could really lead to results. And there began a theater, which to me personally reminded a lot of that beautiful song of the "Promises married" in which there is Count Uncle - and I have seen that many counts have risen here - which says that it is necessary to cut off and soothe. Trounce and sleep, because when you're afraid that they'll come up with responsibilities, you have to cut off and sleep, in the best tradition of italianity. So, we're gonna steal it and make sure it stays sleepy. Now, we come to the approval of a Commission of Inquiry which takes on a commitment that concerns all the skilful and faced with which there could be two styles and two different roads. The first is to try to understand whether the legislation is adequate and therefore to stop at the fact that we are in place and that the legislation is adequate (then I will give you an example). The second, however, is to try to understand why the legislation did not work, does not work and may not work yet. And we could go on like this, continuing to find scandals of a different kind, especially through the fact that we do not want to address the issue of a conflict of interest. Mr Vacciano, who has presented it, will be able to explain and motivate much better than I am, the subject of the so-called revolving doors, which we do not want to address. It is an issue that constitutes one of the elements of the conflict of interest that afflicts this country: it afflicts it not only for the banking system, but for too many things. In my city, yet another co-operative giant is collapsing: in cooperatives, the problem of conflict of interest arises in the same way. The results are the same, i.e. there is no real efficiency and there is no real control. One realizes that there are problems when the oxen have escaped and when the workers and the families find themselves out of work and the induced ones collapse. We must address the problem of conflict of interest, because the latter degrades the productive capacity of this country and also the trust in the institutions (the banking ones first of all). However, in order to address the issue of conflict of interest, we must address the issue of responsibility, because that is what is missing here and that is missing in the words of those who today do not take the responsibility of having delayed the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry, considering that in the Senate there are draft laws on this matter since before the summer of 2013. Someone must assume this responsibility and say "I've been distracted" or "I didn't want it"; but he must take it! No one wants to take responsibility in this country. Now I come to the last point that interests me, always relating to the issue of responsibility. I am sorry for Senator Mauro Maria Marino, because I know that he cares very much about this aspect, but I would like to say a few words about financial education. In the meantime, I'd like to understand what you'd like to do. I'll take a step back. I find that combining financial education with the failures of a banking system - which are above all failures in the transparency and confidence that banks should inspire - culturally is an extremely serious step. In this way, in fact, I translate the following concept into public information: you are primarily responsible for what happened to you: it is your lack of financial education that puts you in a position to be cheated. Senator Mauro Maria Marino, I would like us to explain to those who are the subject of cases of malasanity that should educate themselves on the functioning of the operating rooms; or to a person who goes to the restaurant, eats damaged fish, goes home, and is ill all night long, it must be explained that in school you have to teach him to recognize with the nose that he is eating of damaged fish [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that, beyond good intentions, we should make it very clear who is responsible and what is responsible for it. If there is also the MIFID profiling regulation and its form (which is the sacred bible with which the profiling of the subject making the purchases is carried out), but, in reality, there is someone from the top who says that you have to place a product at all costs, then, Senator Marino, I would like it to be clear that the solution of the problem is not in financial education. At school we then predicted education and advertising progress of all kinds and so it fits perfectly: we put it there too (with an amendment has already been awarded a million euros and I still haven't figured out what, but something will help). I would like, however, at the same time to make very clear the responsibility of those who, in the end, really have the task, having its titles and knowledge, to ensure that these institutions are reliable. [[Applause from Senators Simeoni and Vacciano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u44	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u45	Mr President, some data are already public and reported by various press bodies. We have 276 billion euros of deteriorated loans (March 2016 figures), which account for about 17% of loans; this, compared with 5.7 percent of Spain, 3.9 percent of France, 1.7 percent of China, 1.4 percent of the United States and one percent of Great Britain. Net suffering in October 2016 was €85 billion; this is a ratio with total employment of 4.8 percent (two years ago it was practically the same: 4.89). The first essential fact is that 80% of outstanding loans are loans of a unit amount of more than half a million euros, which is why they are loans to large companies, households and corporate groups. It is therefore absolutely not the fault of small savers, of private individuals, of these famous pensioners known as speculators; no, they are loans over half a million euros. 12.5 percent of the suffering is borne by 579 subjects. In Italy there are 579 subjects who have 24 billion credits in distress; it means about 42 million euros each, i.e. 80 billion lire per head (I also express myself in lire for those who follow us and are older). That's 80 billion lire of credit for 579 people. Among other things, 40 percent of the bad loans are attributable to the real estate and construction sector: we are therefore dealing with the famous neighborhood smarties, especially in the field of construction and cement factories that have ruined our beautiful Italy. Let us now come to those who grant these loans. Again, we have precise data; it is not data of the 5 Star Movement (I address to colleagues of the PD, who may accuse us of having already drawn conclusions), but of the Fiba, the bank union. The branch manager has autonomy up to 125,000 euros and must rise to higher levels if the loan request is for higher amounts. In Italy, therefore, we have 100 very high bank managers who have paid out more than 100 billion credits, which have become deteriorated; 100 very high bank managers who are responsible for more than 100 billion euros of suffering. This is already public news and we hope that the Commission of Inquiry will go further in identifying the responsibilities and precise names of these 100 managers. Just a figure for those who follow us via the web. Know that one of the causes of this situation stems from the fact that, following the privatisation of the banks, many entrepreneurs have borrowed large amounts of money from the banks themselves and, with them, have bought shares and have become the big shareholders of the same financial institutions; therefore, when they asked for loans, the banks have treated them with great regard. A figure that can be very useful to the Commission of Inquiry: we have over 200 billion problematic credits, but from an estimate made by university bodies (also in this case we are not given) the real estate and all the various guarantees supporting these credits amount to a value that is about three times the value. So, we have the guarantees to operate for these credits and so we could actually recover them. The names of the first seven large bank debtors have already appeared on the press. They have already been published, so I reveal no secrets: Maurizio Zamparini, Francesco Bellavista Caltagirone, Carlo De Benedetti, Massimo Mezzaroma, Giuseppe Statuto, Luigi Zunino and, dulcis in fundo, the confirmed president of ENI, Emma Marcegaglia, who has two billion debts due to banks. It can be seen that having two billion debts due is a highly efficient title of merit to become such an important Presidency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, always because we anticipate the results, there is some legal result, because - as you know - it is from a few days ago the judgment of the court of Verona that has declared that the Banca Popolare of Vicenza is a fraud, because it has cheated customers lying to him about the illiquidity of the action of the bank itself and has hidden the fact that the investment was not suitable to their risk profile. There is some official result and it is not we of the 5 Star Movement who say it, but the court itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u46	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the importance of banks for a country's economic system. They collect household savings to make them available to businesses. The financial system ensures that resources not used by operators who have surplus resources can be used by those in deficit. It is clear how the crisis in the banking system has profoundly affected the economy of our country. The crisis in the banking system and the lack of finance have strongly curbed the timid signs of recovery that have occurred, because credit is the fuel of every economic system. Minister Padoan on December 20, 2016, in audition before the Chamber and Senate Budget Commissions, said that the Italian banking system is not, as a whole, on the edge of the abyss. It seems to me that the facts have blatantly denied it. Tell that to savers who have lost everything and tell us which Italian banks have no problems. eighteen months have passed since the first decree adopted for the credit sector (the Decree-Law No 183 of 22 November 2015) and to provide a solution to the crisis of four banks in extraordinary administration (Popular Bank of Etruria and Lazio, Ferrara's Savings Bank; Chieti's Savings Bank and Banca Marche), which in the end were made to fail. All the Marchisans wonder why the Banca Marche, which had economic parameters and capital ratios in place, had failed, with a level of coverage higher than that of other banks, at least better than the two large popular banks. Why was Bank Marche denied the chance to save itself? Why was it not agreed to an increase in capital that would have saved the Marche Bank, as was done for other banks? Why didn't the state intervene? Why have there not been other solutions, instead of leading to despair tens of thousands of savers, who one morning found themselves without assets following the devaluation of the bank's loans from 8.5 billion to 1.5 billion euros? Why did you prefer to bring the economic system of the Marche region to your knees? Why did these four banks undergo this treatment and the others undergo a different treatment? The assisted bankruptcy of these banks caused a crisis of Italian confidence in the credit system and caused financial panic. The savers began to withdraw their deposits and no longer bring their small assets to the bank, causing the production system to lack resources. Then the crisis also affected the Popular Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank which in these days are offering their shareholders compensations of 9 euros for each share for the Popular Bank of Vicenza and 6.1 euros for Veneto Bank, with a dry loss of 85% of the assets. The two banks did not fail but the result, for savers, was the same. Yesterday the People of Vicenza approved the 2016 budget with a loss of almost 2 billion that are added to the 1.4 billion lost in 2015. In three years, almost €4 billion has been burned, frustrating the injection of capital by the Atlas Fund for €1.8 billion. The last event, in order of time, is related to Monte dei Paschi di Siena. By Decree No 237 of 23 December 2016, the State intervened for its rescue. By Monte dei Paschi di Siena the State could. Not to the other banks. However, the EUR 20 billion allocated is few for a sector that needs at least EUR 50 billion. But who has managed the Mount of the Paschi of Siena in these years? Who has benefited from bad management? The situation of Banca Intesa and Unicredit is also worrying, despite the admirable attempt to reduce gross suffering by examining guarantees. The latest bulletin of the Bank of Italy estimates that on the shoulders of the banking system weigh 360 billion euros of deteriorated loans, 210 of which are gross suffering, 90 those net. Faced with this situation, the establishment of a commission of inquiry was due by the government, it was urgent, it was a concern that you had to have above the others. Instead, like so many other things, you preferred to leave it alone. Fifteen months have elapsed since the submission of proposals for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry. The Government has done everything it can to prevent such requests from taking place. The establishment of this Commission is late today. With the few months remaining at the end of the legislature, the Commission will not come to any conclusion. You've hit your target of covering up so many evildoers. That's why you didn't want to make public the lists of those who plundered the banks, but the names came out anyway and you got another bad figure. Certainly the economic crisis has aggravated the situation, but the bad management, the superficial controls, the complicity are the strong causes that have led to this condition. Understanding how things have gone is crucial in order to prevent dramatic situations such as those we have experienced from happening again in the future. Citizens cannot wait for the outcome of judicial proceedings, to know the truth: what has been the course and what are the responsibilities of the Bank of Italy, which over these years has unleashed commissioners in every corner of Italy but has failed to report and take the necessary measures. What are Consob's responsibilities, which failed to monitor banks' recapitalisation operations: 60 billion subordinated bonds sold to households? What are the responsibilities of the auditors, who have been laudably paid, who have certified the correctness of the financial statements which, in evidence, have proved to be completely deceptive to savers and fakes? What are the responsibilities of the Management Boards which have approved clearly unreliable budgets and which have benefited from unjustified allowances - given the results - and distributed non-existent and unavailable resources to the right and to the left? What are the responsibilities of the managers who, paid and wound up in gold, have mastered and led their banks to bankruptcy, demonstrating their complete inability and bad faith in the management of their respective banks, caring more for their interests than those of the saving customers? Then there are the responsibilities of the government that did not deal with the problem of the crisis of the banks, which was inert first and then accepted supinely the EU rules, which imposed on savers to bear the costs of wrongdoing, illegal appropriation, illegitimate use of money and administered goods, unholy managements and bankruptcy choices. The establishment of this Commission was therefore necessary to understand in detail the reasons for the crisis and identify responsibilities. You preferred to wait and mortify the reasons for the common good and the truth. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u49	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry into Banks, even if it is late, is set to move forward in this parliamentary term with very little time before it. If it does not want to become a simple gym for opposing demagogies, the Commission has every interest in delimiting the scope of its analysis in order to reach conclusions that can be useful. In this sense I welcome the orientation that Senator Carraro expressed in his speech at the opening of the discussion, where he indicated in the banks that they will be the subject of the recapitalisation at the expense of the Treasury the subjects to be put under the microscope. What should a Commission of inquiry look at worthy of this name? What questions must he ask, when the time comes, to the subjects who will be called to pose? I believe, first of all, that a committee of inquiry worthy of this name should read the papers and study before questioning. It wouldn't do any good to call the protagonists on the basis of the information we have gained from reading the newspapers. I think, for example, it would be useful for all of us to know whether it is true or not - and we know this from the papers rather than from the testimonies - that the decree, which we passed between last year and this and which allocates the 20 billion for the rescue of the banks in difficulty, has had its gestation since what emerged after the referendum on 4 December or, as has also been written, if this gestation began in the spring of 2016. You should have the cards to figure out what were the funds that you intended to allocate in May 2016 and what we actually allocated at the end of the race. At the same time, speaking of the Monte dei Paschi, it is certainly interesting to know what the Mussari presidency has done, rather than the previous managements. If you have a bit of patience, in broad lines, what these gestures have done is already known and are also known the judgments that on those choices it was possible to give. The recent trial is much less well known, i.e. what has happened in the last ten months. What was said and what was written in July 2016? Who were the protagonists? What did the MEF do? What did the bank's board of directors do? What did Palazzo Chigi do? What did Matteo Renzi and Jamie Dimon say to be heard separately? Going to put your hands in the drawers of the Bank of Italy, Consob and the banks themselves is a very delicate activity, which cannot be entrusted to unreliable people. The Commission will have to be composed - and this should be an honorable commitment of all parties - of people who have science, conscience and independence because the protection of the banking system, which is different from the protection of bankers, is in the interest of anyone, after the election of 2018, will find himself ruling this country. This Commission can be useful or do damage if it gives way to demagogy. I say this because the Commission will act simultaneously with the decisions that the Government will take with regard to the present and future of the banks on which the next past will have to be investigated - I hope - without going too far into the remote past, not because it is not of interest but because we already know it. These two activities need to be talked about, not each of them doing it on its own, and I explain why. The first and most delicate operation to be carried out, and on which we will have to negotiate at the single supervision and in Europe at DG Competition, will be to understand how to deal with outstanding claims. In this regard there are two schools of thought: these in distress credits must all be sold together as soon as possible, and therefore in fact sold out, because this is the market price that the seller is obliged to sell; or, if possible, you must have the time to enhance this class of assets of the bank's balance sheet. Colleagues, there are two roads ahead of us: the road that is going Unicredit and the road that should have walked Monte dei Paschi. They're not the same. Unicredit has created a mixed company (50.01 per cent of shareholders and 49.9 the bank) so that the upside, the enhancement that will have these classes of assets will largely fall into the bank's assets. The optimum would have been to create a company that would acquire these credits formed by the shareholders of the bank with a work partner reduced to a minimum, but if this is too difficult to realize, that is the right solution. On the other hand, on the Mount of the Paschi, I see that we are still auctioning our debts in distress. While we study what Mussari has done with the federation of Siena of PD, a matter on which it is very easy to work, we risk that the oxen are brought out of the stable through a misguided execution of the right decree of rescue of the banks. Ergo - and I conclude - I believe that this Commission should help to make the right decisions at this stage and not just a parade of witnesses on which to make statements to the newspapers at the end of the hearings. This would be a very modest outcome which reminds me of the Commission's inquiry into Telekom Serbia, which for three months sat on the pages of the newspapers and then ended with nothing in fact. Less pages of newspapers, more conclusive facts. [[Applause from the PD and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and the Compagnone and Liuzzi senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u50	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u51	Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken in this debate this morning, bearing, from different points of view, the same heartfelt appeal, which somewhat resembles yours, Mr Mucquettti. Let us not translate this activity, which I, like many, consider to be late, into a useless parade and an operation of demagogy. Everything, in fact, we need except this. But the points and major operational issues you have just mentioned, Mr Cucchetti, would be difficult to understand if they did not fit, even for a few minutes, in a broader and wider cultural debate that would help us to understand why your proposal is different from the proposals of others. His proposals are in the wake of a cultural redefinition of the great role of finance. If you do not understand this, you do not understand how everything that we have seen happen in recent years, starting from the deregulation process of the financial system, which, little by little, has ended up devouring the real economy. We must also understand how it could have happened that our banking system, considered and evaluated for its economic and financial fundamentals among the most solid in the world, has ended up being shredded in the European context within some mechanisms and procedures that, with the far-off and perhaps unattainable objective of eliminating the risk, oblige national banking systems and, overall, today the European one, to move away from the logic of enterprise and its inherent risk to that of standardization and regulation so strict that, in my opinion, the financial activity of sovereign funds in an incorrect way, to the more speculative one of the derivative financial instruments. And if we don't go back, we don't understand how we got this far, and we're gonna figure it out with an analysis, an investigation or a cognitive investigation that's gonna get the witnesses to this. But in the responsibility of this affair, which is only the tail of a great financial policy almost all wrong, the protagonists are not them. The decision makers were the real protagonists, the real culprits, I come to say, of a financial system that then allowed managers wrong to do what they did. But the system was wrong before people did. That's why all that surveillance and control activity is little if you don't understand why that supervision couldn't and couldn't exercise its role. We must take a step back, without going too far: many of us know that all this begins with a dramatic financial crisis, that of 1929, which leads States to produce a series of instruments, first of all legislative ones, and therefore a regulatory framework to protect the saver. We therefore come to the important agreements of Bretton Woods, which restore the balance between real economy, money and finance. From that time, however, it begins slowly but surely, after the great economic boom in the Western system, the questioning of those sacred principles, whose cornerstone was the clear separation between business banks and commercial banks, that is, between those who collected savings and those who employed it, in that virtuous mechanism that we all recall, but that none of us knows exactly how to defend, in that mechanism of protection of savings and trust as the supreme value of the financial and therefore also economic regulatory system. So we arrive in the 1970s, until the fall of the Berlin Wall, to disassemble piece by piece what had been considered the security system of savings, the use of that finance to support and serve the economy. Of deregulation in deregulation, we find ourselves dealing, instead, with a finance that at its peak of deregulation has become an immense casino, a real betting center, whose managers deceived people and countries, making them subjects with sovereign debt. So, if we do not understand this, we will not understand what a Commission of Inquiry is for: not only to track down, in the mortal trap of a deregulated finance, personal responsibilities, but - more importantly - the political responsibilities of anyone who has regulated and regulated a historical process that has seen us enter the European Union and, within the European Union, join, as we are doing, a banking union to which we delegate the solution of a problem that cannot be solved until we resume the debate on the great question of the separation between those who collect savings and those who use it and those who define powerful investments in support of one or many other sectors. As far as banking suffering is concerned, which Mr Cucchetti has treated very well, it is necessary to distinguish between them and in this Committee of Inquiry we will have the possibility, for example, to verify - but the data are already known - that 80% of banking suffering is not attributable to the small business, but to those large companies that, even through the leverage instrument, have managed to stay within the banking system because they are protected. In that total deregulation, however, nothing has been done to guarantee the economy of the territory and the small business that same leverage. At a time when the European Supervisory Mechanism even allows itself to imagine - which is likely to happen soon - that in the balance sheets of banks and their balance sheet, the value of government bonds is identical to the value and the risk capacity of the most deregulated instruments of finance, such as derivatives, if we allow this and do not stop this drift, we will perhaps see less suffering, but we will arrive at a situation in which credit will be granted only to those who are able to move the financial leverage, that is to say to the big business. In this way we will end up promoting - and this is one of the issues that we should address - a regulatory system that kills the banks of the territory, and therefore its economy, for the benefit of large banks, which will have to have, at least, a supranational dimension. All of this, as you can see, we won't be able to do it. Therefore, despite the fact that at the end of the parliamentary term the establishment of this Commission of inquiry has been so delayed that it is in vain, I hope that it will be an opportunity for this Parliament not to become an accomplice in a deregulation that has allowed everything we have seen to happen, but at least to be aware of its duty. Its duty, even before being an instrument of inquiry and demagogy (always around the corner), is to be an instrument of clarification of a national, European and, alas, a world political fact, which has seen before our eyes - sometimes unaware, sometimes complicit - finance eat our economy and our possibility of the future, that future that only the real economy and the welding of social capital, human capital and finance can guarantee. If there is no trace of this in this Committee of Inquiry, it will have been an unnecessary footbridge, a risk on which President Cucchetti warned us a moment ago. If this can be the case, then it can serve Parliament and the government of tomorrow to make the right decisions, returning to its own steps with respect to a decree-law on popular banks that had a single purpose: to deliver the savings of Italians, within the banks of the territories, to that great finance that today, with the alibi of suffering, brings away our banks to 2 euros. A government that cares about the future of its own country and economy should have defended instead of selling out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u52	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Luigi Vanvitelli) in Lioni, in the province of Avellino, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u53	The joint general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u54	Mr President, I followed with great care and interest the 17 speeches in the general debate, which led me to take 13 pages of notes, compared to which I would like to specify some of the things I have said or even reply to. Since part of the reply I think is directly linked to the opinions that I will be expressing on the 38 amendments tabled, I wonder whether it is not worth doing a whole reply, expressing opinions and voting, which would make it possible to give greater homogeneity to the work, in the presence of all those who have spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u55	This is an assessment which I shall of course submit to the House, because there is no opposition from the Presidency. If there are no objections, we will resume the examination of the measure at the afternoon sitting next Tuesday, with the replies of the rapporteur and the Government and the expression of their opinions. If there are no comments, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u58	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to return to the problem of immigration, with reference to the reception system in our country, because we in the Northern League Group are detecting a sort of anomaly: for three years we have been monitoring the numbers of the reception system, which - I would like to remind you - stood at 22,000 people at the end of 2013, 66,000 at the end of 2014, 103,000 at the end of 2015 and 176,000 at the end of last year. These days, in the first weeks of the current year, these numbers have decreased slightly: until two days ago, we had 174,000 people, 2,000 fewer in the reception system. What happened? Were the entrances in our country blocked? Absolutely not, so much so that in these three months, until March 27, the entrances were 21,000, with an increase of 51 percent compared to last year. Above all, 33,000 people applied for asylum from 1 January to 20 March. These, by right, must be placed in the reception system. Until two days ago we would have had to record the number of 209,000 people in the reception system. Someone came out of it and you might think that, having left Alfano and arrived Minniti, the relocation system was effectively activated. No, because from the beginning of the year they have been relocated to other European countries a little less than 2,000 people. So until the day before yesterday we expected a number of attendances in the reception system of 207,000 people, instead of 174,000. Therefore, as a Group of the North League, we wonder what happened, what changed. Are there, by chance, 33,000 immigrants already holders of the international protection permit that after six months have no longer been renewed and, therefore, have been released from the reception system? Or are there 33,000 irregulars in the reception centers that can't be found (i.e. people who have gone away without justifying their removal)? These doubts led us, as a Group of the North Legacy, to present this morning the parliamentary question with a written reply 4-07299 to Minister Minniti, who we hope will respond quickly and clarify these issues that we frankly do not return. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u61	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, unfortunately, I come back to talk about collusive dynamics that I know of, due to a broader design that could also affect other tendering procedures, carried out - guess what - by the Council. I therefore call for a reply to Question 3-02739, submitted on 5 April 2016 - one year ago - of an urgent nature, in which I note that the Competition and Market Authority has detected certain anomalies in the behaviour of the main operators in the support and technical assistance services sector to the public administration for the implementation of programmes co-financed by the European Union and, in particular, for the conduct of tendering procedures aimed at the acquisition, by the Managing Authority, of the Certification Authority and the Audit Authority, for a value of approximately 66.500,000 euros, net of VAT. In the meeting of 15 March 2016, in relation to this competition, the Guarantor Authority decided to initiate the investigation against the companies Deloitte & Touche, Meridiana Italia, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Reconta Ernst & Young, in order to ascertain the existence of violations of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which states, among other things: It is incompatible with the internal market and prohibited all agreements between undertakings, decisions of associations of undertakings and concerted practices which may affect trade between Member States and which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition. These conducts allowed the companies mentioned to win 5 out of 9 lots, through economic offers significantly lower than those which led to the award of the remaining 4 lots to other operators. I mean, what happened? A very lucrative game that does not appear to have been pursued. In other words, a restrictive agreement on competition in breach of Article 101 TFEU. In November 2016, the Council announced the provisional award of another technical assistance tender for the Managing and Certification Authorities for the implementation of the 2014-2016 operational programmes, for a total of more than 260 million euros, divided into 10 lots. It is surprising and paradoxical that the Council, during the evaluation, did not take due account of the investigation and previous findings and, above all, has persevered in the policy of favour for multinational companies, with exorbitant and obvious damages for the Italian small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector that, with these results, are effectively excluded from the activity of technical assistance to the public administration for the next seven years. Particularly significant is the fact that the most competitive offers of these entities have never overlapped. Such differentiation of the economic offers does not seem to explain except in the perspective of a partition design, aimed at annulling the competitive comparison for each lot of interest. This too, unfortunately, is the Council and this is also being put under the carpet.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u62	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet a delegation from the School Institute of Feltre, in the province of Belluno, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u65	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting, the Senate continues today with a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. There are two feminicides that we must remember today and an act of violence that still sees a woman in very serious condition. I will use harsh words, because the situation is very serious. We cannot hide behind twists of words or find a lighter way to tell what is going on, because the word feminicide must remind us of the gravity of what it carries with it. Women continue to die at the hands of those who claim to love them. Women continue to be subjected to violence and abuse. Burned women alive, stabbed women. That is the reality. Today we must remember three cases. Three in a matter of days. Treviso, March 23rd. A 19-year-old boy killed Irina Bacai, 21 years old. She was expecting a baby. He took both of us's lives. He killed her by hitting her in the back. She was six months pregnant, waiting for their baby. She refused to have an abortion, he hit her, then choked her, then hid her body and continued her life. Vercelli, March 29th. Fiorilena Ronco is very serious. She was stabbed by her ex-husband on her way out of work. Now fight against death. He's got deep wounds in his abdomen, chest, throat. Come on, Fiorilena, we're close. On March 28, in Pinerolo, she was killed by Battistina Russo. Her husband ended her life. He hit her with several stab wounds. The investigation is still underway, but Battistina's death is a violent reality. In Pinerolo there is an association of volunteers, Svolta Donna, who does much to help women victims of violence and is now organizing demonstrations. However, we are always late. The number of women killed that we remembered in this relay, started only on June 30, 2016, then rises to 48. Every time we intervene, the episodes are bloody, hard, dangerously increasing. Let us make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Government everything, and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013, and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. An appeal to the country, men and women: more than 120 women were killed in 2016, we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u68	URAS (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to return to an issue that I have already raised in recent days concerning a very painful dispute involving about 1,200 workers from an institution that provides assistance to people with disabilities, which is also of great importance in the lives of patients' families. For more than nine months now the workers of this institution have not regularly received wages, in some cases minimum payments, in other cases null. These workers have become transparent and are not even considered in the national press. In other circumstances we have had situations, not so degenerate as this, which have also been treated by the media and supported in such a way as to press and press the authorities responsible for regularizing this matter, in order to get workers what they are entitled to, i.e. working wages. I believe that it is now four or five days since the hunger strike is taking place in several garrisons on the island. It is a situation in which the Ministry of Health and the Region, which some competence, at least in the matter of supervision, is also very late. I have tabled a question, dated now, to the Minister of Health, to whom he has not answered. But it is not new: it is, more or less, the ordinary behavior of some Dicasteries. The workers in question need the support of the institutions to resolve the problem, because it is the responsibility of the public authority to provide the resources for the service for which they work under the convention regime and, therefore, it is the responsibility of the public authority to intervene on its regularity. For this reason, Mr President, I urge the Ministry and the Region to identify, also through a Commissioner ad acta, a procedure that will put an end to the suffering of these workers and can lead them back to a normal life, a useful professional life and a resolution of problems that not only concern them, but also the many people and the many patients they have in charge and care. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u71	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today to draw the attention of this House to a very serious matter, which I feel is difficult to find in the international political landscape and in the media adequate space and attention. On 23 February, on the charge of drug trafficking, Filipino senator Leila de Lima, member of the Liberal Opposition Party, human rights activist and main opponent of the drug campaign promoted by the President of the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte, was arrested. In August 2016, de Lima, then President of the Justice and Human Rights Commission of the Philippine Senate, investigated the extrajudicial executions of about 1,000 suspected drug-related perpetrators, who would be committed in Davao (the second city of the Philippines) at the time that President Duterte was mayor of the city. From that moment on, the events that led to the arrest warrant against the senator followed: first, to be exact on the 25th of the same month of August, President Duterte accused her of having brought drugs into one of the largest prisons in the country when he was Minister of Justice; then, on 19 September 2016, de Lima was removed from office on the charge of wanting to destroy the President. Today, the Senator, who Amnesty International has declared a prisoner of conscience, is in prison awaiting trial and, in the event of a conviction, is in danger of 12 years imprisonment. Perhaps he is not aware of all that since 30 June 2016, the day of the inauguration of the President of the Philippines Rodrigo Duterte, more than 7,000 killings committed by the police and militia during the drug campaign that the President, who calls himself the punisher, has committed himself to carry on until the end of his presidential term. I regret to repeat some obscenities that have been reported in the newspapers, but to describe President Duterte, who for too many years, as mayor before and as Head of State today, sows terror and death, I do not think there is a better way than to listen to some sentences he uttered. As mayor, during the election campaign, he said: "If God wants to put me there - that is to say the Presidency of the Republic, where he was then elected - attention, because the 1,000 killed - in the city of Davao - will become 100,000. You will see the fish fattening in the bay of Manila because it will be there that I will throw your bodies. And again: The funeral home will be full. I'll supply the bodies. When I'm President, I'll order the police to look for those people and kill everyone. As a newly elected president, he said: "Hitler killed three million Jews. We have three million drug addicts here. I'd be happy to kill them all. If you have a knife and you see a drug dealer or drug addict on the street, kill him. I'll give you a medal. I spare you the harsh and obscene words spoken by Duterte in response to the criticisms coming from the Philippine Bishops' Conference and, in general, against the Catholic Church, against Pope Francis and against the European Union. This just described, therefore, is the picture in which the incarceration of Senator de Lima is inserted. At the beginning of the month it was promoted by the Association Luca Coscioni, which there is no peace without justice and by the Italian Radicals an appeal for the liberation of the Filipino senator, also signed by many Italian MPs in Brussels and Rome (including several senators, including colleague Lo Giudice of the Democratic Party Group). I shall conclude, Mr President. On 15 March, in a resolution, the European Union called on the Philippine President to contain methods of war on drugs. But no action taken has so far had any effect. Today I am a spokesperson for all those who call on the institutions of our country, the institutions of the European Union and the United Nations to act, with all the necessary instruments at political and diplomatic level, to obtain the immediate release of the Senator de Lima, and to ensure adequate security as long as she remains in prison and a fair trial. In this regard, I would remind you that there are long-standing diplomatic, cultural and political relations between our country and the Philippines, and between the Philippines and the European Union, and that what is happening today in this country constitutes a violation of rights universally enshrined in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights, which justify the use of the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-797.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.52 p.m.
