ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2942. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the rapporteur's general discussion and reply took place. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2942, of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 148 of 16 October 2017, which incorporates the amendments proposed by the Commission and, with reference to the additional article on motorway concessions, provides for an accounting correction and clarifies the procedure for the conclusion of conventional acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u12	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to confirm that, in addition to the change indicated by the Minister, no further corrections have been made on other parts of the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to ask Mr Finocchiaro whether he intends to reply or whether it is preferable to wait for the opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u13	Mr President, it will be the Budget Commission that will check the latest corrections and submit them to the House as a condition.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u16	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, there was an incongruity in an amendment concerning the payment of overtime from the Forces of Order and the Firefighters. From this point of view, I would like to confirm that the need to intervene or not on that text has been transposed. For a mistake, probably dictated by the haste, the fire department was excluded from the possibility of paying overtime. Now, since the possibility of drawing on recruitment funds was indicated for this solution, the 5 Star Movement has nothing to complain about about intervening equitatively and avoiding unequal treatment. I would ask you to confirm that the amendment has been included in the maxi amendment. In announcing, in this respect, our non-controversial attitude, I ask the Government to consider the possibility of anticipating the recruitment expected in the coming years, in order to guarantee a greater contingent, provided for in budget law, from the fifty units indicated to a larger number, which could be 169, if not 200, as proposed by the 5 Star Movement. From this point of view, we urge the Government to make a commitment to remedy this distortion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u17	I would like to ask Mr Finocchiaro whether he wishes to speak or whether it would be better to wait for the opinion of the Budget Commission to go into the matter if necessary. Mr Finocchiaro, Minister for Relations with Parliament. Mr President, we await the opinion of the Budget Committee. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, it sends the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9:43 a.m. and resumed at 10:03 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u18	The Conference of Leaders organised the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on financial matters. For the discussion on confidence, an hour and forty minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will start around 13 o'clock. The Conference of Leaders also took note of the progress of work in the 5th Commission on the draft budget law, and it was therefore agreed that the examination of the measure in the Chamber will begin on Monday 27 November at 16.30 a.m. So next week the House will not be holding a sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u21	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau, you and your colleagues to make a statement to the Italian citizens. It is an operation that can be carried out using a simple computer, but it is right that it be done in this institutional forum, in this Upper House which is the Senate. Italian citizens should be informed of how many trusts have been placed on draft laws during the Renzi Government and the Gentiloni Government and how many, instead, bills of parliamentary origin have been voted. It is an important framework - in my opinion - for the Italians to understand how they are working - or are not working - this Parliament. If this figure were officially communicated by the Presidency during one of the forthcoming sessions, the Italian people would thank. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u22	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not expect to be called to speak immediately, and therefore I do not have much to discuss in this regard. I am interested, however, to underline the fact that the tax decree-law has become much wider than the original text: many provisions have been included in it, perhaps even in hope, and this I am pleased with. I also like to stress the fact that part of the bill concerning the pharmacological use of cannabis has been included in the decree-law. Both Senator Maurizio Romani and I were part of the intergroup that contributed to the drafting of the bill for the use of cannabinoids. I am therefore pleased that this measure, once voted in the House, since probably there would have been no time at the end of the legislature to vote in the Senate, has been included in the decree law. It is a very important measure for patients who need this type of care. I am also pleased that the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises has been implemented or refinanced. We know that Italy is a country based on small and medium-sized enterprises; consequently, they need support in order to move forward. Another measure which I consider to be positive, even if it has already been contested in some way, concerns self-employment, in which a fair compensation has been established for self-employed workers of the various categories, including the category of self-employed nurses, to which I belong. There is probably something to review in that area, but I am pleased that it has been included in the tax decree. In this case too, it was a draft law under discussion in the Committee on Employment, Social Security and so on. However, a few months before the end of the parliamentary term, we would not have been able to bring it to the attention of the House and vote on it. For a series of many valid reasons within this decree-tax law, as there are probably as many to correct and improve, as Group Italy of values, we will vote positively for the trust. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u24	Mr President, we are discussing a decree-law related to the budget. We have heard exuberant statements from Padoan and Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri, who do not find any kind of justification if a person, on average aware, actually deepens the numbers, data and the Italian economic situation. Some doubts have been raised by Europe. Between yesterday and today we read the statements of the Vice President of the European Commission, Katainen, who, hermetically, said that everyone sees that Italy does not improve. This is the figure of who has to certify, in the end, the budgets of our country. It is recalled that we should have made, as a planned Community commitment, a reduction in structural deficits to 0.6%; the government already says that next year it will not be better than 0.3%. We are exactly half the commitments we made with Europe, to the point that, according to what the European Commission has said, it will send Rome a letter to reaffirm the need to respect all the commitments made with Brussels. Europe also gives us a small hand and a little attention, deciding that the judgment against us will be postponed until we know the final figures for 2017. Let us remember that this is nothing more than an act of courtesy towards the majority and the government, because with it Europe claims that it does not want to get into a tense position and influence the next elections. It is in fact written among the lines that a sanctioning intervention by Europe at the moment would only favour the Euro-Sceptic parties. Let us remember that we, as the North League, join the Eurosceptic parties towards this kind of Europe. We know that we are not very much loved or esteemed by the Euroburocrats for which some help is being given to you, despite them. Let's go see how they behave. We exult because it is growing slightly, by 1.8 percent. We should, however, compare with the average European growth figure. Well, we see that countries such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Romania grow from 5 to 8.6 percent; even Bulgaria and Cyprus grow by 4%. A cycling comparison has been made that is quite nice according to which Italy is going out and joining the peloton: it is a cycling term that means group. Well, when a cyclist pits, falls or anything else he has to struggle not to reach the top of the race but at least to hook up to the group. Well, we are struggling to reach the European average from which we are still far away. In fact, since we are twenty-five on twenty-eight, I don't think there is much to exult, in fact there is to recriminate for not having exploited favorable moments that could have brought us into a different situation. I would invite you to read a foreword that Professor Baldassarri wrote, which in addition to being our former colleague was also Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs, which reports dramatic data. In anticipation, if Draghi and the ECB had not been involved in the quantitative easing operation, we would be in dramatic situations. Nothing has been done to improve the internal situation of Italian accounts and the economy. Baldassarri scientifically says that without the intervention of the ECB today the Italian debt would have exceeded 150 percent. It is not good to read, but we must take note of this unhappy reality. We have learned, for example, that thanks to the stimuli of the Commission, the municipalities affected by public disasters, in addition to the few Florentine Municipalities, or rather Tuscany, have also been brought back into the Communes affected by the last earthquakes. In this regard, I would like to add that a few days ago we read the statements of Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri saying that we will immediately help the people of Iran and Iraq affected by the earthquake. It is not a bad thing to help people and countries affected by earthquakes but we wonder if Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri realizes the conditions in which are our earthquakes of Abruzzo, Marche, Umbria and Upper Lazio. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is no talk here of intervention because there are still rubble, not houses or buildings secured. Other than new homes, we have populations that are running the risk of spending the second winter in deplorable conditions! President Gentiloni Silveri, you are there first to solve the problems of Italians; first of all the problems of Italians. I would say that the conclusion that is drawn is that the decree-law is messed up. Why, in fact, include in a tax decree rules that have nothing to do with it? Am I talking about the defense rules that modify the term of office of the Chiefs of Staff of the Army, Navy, Aviation and the Commander General of the Carabinieri? Few things, if we want, since we are going from two to three years, but the debate on the White Paper on defence has arrived at the end of its process, in which all these provisions are incorporated in an organic way in the revision of the defence legislation. Why export them to a tax text that has absolutely nothing to do with it? Besides, Italians don't have to be fooled. As for Alitalia, already in 2008 Prodi had told us some stories. We lend 300 million to Alitalia to get out of a momentary crisis (so much will be refundable). Those 300 million are now gone, and no one can think of forfeiting that amount anymore. Moreover, a company that makes debts and non-profits, that is unable to pay its suppliers, how can it repay a debt contract with the State, which, it is known, is always at the end of the list of creditors? It is then decided to give an additional loan of 600 million, which Alitalia should have returned now, in November, but of course Alitalia is not able to repay anything at all: it continues to accumulate debts and we do nothing but move this impossible refund to 2018. In the meantime, however, Alitalia is still with the empty coffers and then we allocate another 300 million, but these will be paid out or allocated without any change in the budget. One may wonder why, but why it is not necessary because it does not involve requirements, as the expenditure will be reimbursed in the same year (it will be paid in 2018 and by 2018 they will have to reimburse them). Let's face it: if Alitalia is a decorate structure-society, why do we keep telling stories? No one believes it anymore. Sometimes Italians are told what situations we find ourselves in and everyone will roll up their sleeves and do their part, but we do not continue with falsehoods, we do not continue to tell lies. The terms undoubtedly have meaning. When we read, at least from the titles of the text, that VAT will be sterilized, we all breathe, because "sterilization" is a term that reassures us, but if we go to check that the lowest VAT, that to 10%, also called VAT facilitated because it affects the goods of large consumption, that is, all the consumption of the middle-low belt of the population, will go from the current 10 to 11,14 percent. The government says of itself: We were good, because we could have increased it to 11.50 percent. But excuse me - I say to the Government, to the Ministers - it is trying at the Italian level, even better on a European stimulus, to start some inflation because this would increase consumption and make the economy start again; we know that the only instrument that would depress and block consumption is VAT and what is the measure that the Government puts in hand to make some cash? It is precisely that on VAT on consumer products, which affects the largest part of the Italian population. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to quickly touch on the subject of SIAE. For years we have been proposing measures, always rejected in this House, claiming that SIAE does not leave anything to publishers and authors: it eats 90% of what it takes, so the liberalisations of the collections are good. But these things would have been to be done in time past. As for golden power, we protect our interests, as everyone is doing. The last case that we will easily remember is the French question of the shipyards: the Korean STX comes out, proposes to Fincantieri to buy, Fincantieri acquires, intervenes the French government of Macron opposing an absolute no and absolutely decides to nationalize the yards of Saint-Nazaire. This is to say that it protects the strategic interest of the State, in this case the French one: everyone does their own interests and probably Italy is the last to do so. With regard to the protection of our interests, let us think, for example, of the quotas of immigrants: no European country respects the European directives. Maybe we should learn too, or rather we should learn our Government too, to protect a little more the interests of Italians. At this point, messy rules, alien rules such as those on defence, increased VAT which is very worrying, alarming data (and Europe continues to remind us). Let us say it all: it is an effective expropriation of Parliament's legislative functions by a government, which also demonstrates a great inability to get out of crisis situations. Under these conditions, the Northern League cannot give its confidence to this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u26	Mr President, in the general discussion I had asked the Government to reconsider Amendment 13.0.7 and then became Article 13-a, which gives more than 5 billion to a participant in the management of the Brenner motorway. This motorway, since its inauguration in the 1960s, is in the hands of the same company, a largely public company. There are European norms that would expect to call for tenders to renew a motorway concession, so much so that in 2011 the Berlusconi government, with Minister Matteoli, had done so. The invitation to tender provided for a number of initial conditions, in respect of which participants in the tender could have intervened by proposing better ones, for example at toll level (for motorists this would have meant paying less), at the level of interventions for the renewal of facilities and for the reduction of the number of years of the concession. The Renzi-Gentiloni Silveri government, instead of doing the interests of citizens by pointing out a race, waited for these three years without making the races and then giving the aforementioned concession for thirty years, in addition to the three extensions in fact, because the contest was not called (therefore a total of thirty-three years), to a new company, happens a company participated, just that kind of society on which the Government would have said it wanted to make a cut, a drastic deforestation. Perhaps some shareholders that cost 20,000 or 30,000 euros have been eliminated and perhaps, in many cases, it also renders services to the citizens and then makes a new one to forfeit the beauty of 11 billion receipts, of which more than 5 of gross operating margin, substantially of profit. It is 5.5 billion that could largely be recovered from the state, i.e. the taxpayer-user, in the form of a reduction in tolls and through a race, but the Government, which has always boasted of wanting to race, is looking for all the tricks not to do them. I read in the newspapers of the attempt to give about twenty billions to Autostrade for Italy, a pure gift, because they would find justification in the construction of an infrastructure that had to be done already in 2002, according to the company Autostrade, and that costs 4 billion. This is indeed a scandalous fact and is by far the most important financial measure of the whole measure. The Government confirmed this in the maxi amendment. Only this would be reason enough to vote against the confidence, but above all to express an extremely negative opinion on the government's policy, which centels the money for earthquake victims, flood victims, populations and territories hit by the fires and then finds 5.5 billion to give to a participant always dominated by the party of the SVP, to whose representatives I congratulate because they have undoubtedly done the interests of their party and also in part of their population but to the detriment of all Italians and the Italian economic system. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u27	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u28	Mr President, you know very well that central Italy was hit last year by a serious earthquake. You yourself have gone to the places of disaster several times. This disaster has led to a real housing emergency. 3,702 houses were requested, 1,843 only from the Marche Region. To date, for the housing emergency in the Marches, 287 have been delivered. Some citizens have provided for themselves to build a building for their own housing needs, because they have seen as a forcing to take themselves along the coast. Now the Government, in order to cope with this situation, has previewed in the provision an article 8- bis to the decree-law n. 189 of 2016 establishing that for the participations of realization of real estate carried out in the period between 24 August 2016 and 24 August 2017 in the absence of housing title and for urgent housing needs of the owners, the latter can arrange the communication referred to in article 6 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 380 of 2001. The authorisation - also by way of derogation from Article 167 of Legislative Decree No. 42 of 2004, which bears the order of return in pristino or payment of financial compensation (i.e. there is a derogation from the order to put in pristino or to pay a penalty) - is given after obtaining the opinion of compatibility landscape, as well as the clearance of the Park Authority, as well as in compliance with regional laws. There is a mistake in the wording of the amendment and I fought in the Commission to make it clear to the representative of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando, that the derogation must be generalised. At a time when there is no compatibility of landscape or the favorable opinion of the park or the construction does not comply with regional laws, we are at the starting point. This amendment was used to solve a case, which became emblematic and made us a little ridiculous, having concerned a modest little house. The derogation should be extended to all the rules, otherwise, if we extend it only to the order of repayment or payment of financial compensation, we will not solve the problem. The derogation, because it was a provisional authorization, had to be done to all the laws: granting it temporarily would have allowed a problem to be solved, then, as soon as the problem was solved and the house rebuilt, everything would be demolished. Without the exception of everything, however, that construction will still remain abusive at the moment. I would therefore have moved this derogation to the beginning, saying that it would be done by way of derogation from all the rules in force, as this is an emerging solution. I think it's too late now to solve this problem. Maybe an amendment to the law of stability will have to be tabled to correct this aspect: the derogation serves for every law related to the constructions realized in order to meet the housing needs in the Marches and also in the contermini regions. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to refer to the speech which Senator Milo, a member of the Budget Committee, had already had the opportunity to make in general debate yesterday. The explanation of vote will be made by another Senator from Campania, who is also Vice-President of the Commission itself, Senator Langella. Mr President, I would like to stress one thing: there has been a great deal of work in the Commission, even late in the day. I have seen, among other things, the participation of many colleagues from all the groups, who were not members of the Commission, who were therefore very involved. The question of trust is due to a mere necessity, because we all know that the tax decree-law must be converted and we still have to send it to our colleagues in the House who, if changes were to be made to it, should send it back to us who, as we saw just now during the Conference of Leaders, already have a forced timetable for the law of stability and budget. As early as this afternoon, immediately after this sitting, the Budget Committee will meet and President Tonini has drawn up a timetable which is a tour de force: next week we must meet every day to discuss the more than seven hundred amendments that have been pointed out and tabled. The important thing that I want to stress and that, of course, satisfies us very much, is that it is a tax decree-law of which, in small part, we have been protagonists on some important issues; and we are proud of it. Above all because in Article 1, where we speak (among other things) of the famous breaking up of the folders, we can say that, practically, between the text of the decree and the amendments approved, the concepts proposed by us have been pedigrated, already last year, always on the tax decree. Last year we were not heard, this year we were heard. The audience has been expanded. The dates have been transferred and, as we predicted, the receipts have been higher than those provided by the Government. Therefore, as a Group, in a silent way we have worked and we have prevented and denounced an attempt by the majority by means of an amendment by the rapporteur, endorsed by Minister Padoan and Deputy Minister Casero, but not by Deputy Minister Morando, who yesterday, rightly, Mr Milo thanked. Thanksgiving to which, as the Parent Company, I join. They wanted to introduce a crazy mechanism of financing tax agencies to commission on the cashier; in addition to yet another attempt to parasanitary the fallen executives and other amenities, as Senator D'Anna would have said. With our decisive intervention and the cooperation of all the Senators of the ALA Group, in the Commission we also opened our eyes to the other members of the same Government and the majority, and the amendment, which had been tabled as an armor, was withdrawn in a few hours. This was our function, that of a Group that works without scrabbles and chairs; as Senator Verdini said now, we are 14 Ministers without portfolios. There is, then, another point of which we feel we are proud and proud. Yesterday Senator Milo had the opportunity to say how Ischia got a big recognition thanks to our Group and how we could head up to Ischia and say that we did our duty, which they did not do other Groups and what, above all, did not do the Campania Region. Well, today it is written on "Il Mattino": thanks to Governor De Luca; but nothing came to us from the president of the Campania Region De Luca. He did not make any pressure: autonomously, the Campania Senators of the ALA Group have raised awareness of the whole Group, which has allowed us to table amendments that the Government has accepted. That is why we thanked Deputy Minister Morando and Minister Finocchiaro. They thanked us for preventing the government from making a fool of itself but above all to ensure that the earthquake victims of Ischia were treated differently from all the other earthquake victims. We managed to prevent this gap while De Luca - if not through the Holy Spirit - did not spend a word neither with us and, from what we have seen, not even with the majority. Our interventions were not insignificant, because they amounted to about 45 million (90 billion old lire). Above all, however, I am thinking of all the facilities that we have been able to include, such as the suspension of the payment of taxes, tax obligations, including those arising from payment records. With regard to local taxes, in order to compensate for the negative financial effects, a fund of EUR 5.8 million for 2017 was established in the forecast of the Ministry of the Interior, to be allocated to the three municipalities of the island affected, namely the municipalities of Lacco Ameno, Casamicciola and Forio d'Ischia. In particular, the expenditure of 20 million, Senator D'Anna, for the next year and 10 million for the following year was authorised for the restructuring of these municipalities. Moreover, to support the recovery of damaged productive activities, 10 million was granted for 2018‐2019, with a capital contribution of 30% of the loss of income. This was possible thanks to amendments signed by our bell tower senators and without taking walks in Ischia when there was an earthquake (as many political figures, even important, many parliamentarians, many senators of this House have done). In the moment of passing from words to deeds we did not do as the football Italy that the goal did not. We have scored the goal, of course also thanks to the Government that has listened to us and has allowed us to say today that our duty as senators, and as a group, have done so. That is why, also because of the considerations I made at the beginning, we believe that confidence is necessary. Trust comes from choral work; it will then be Senator Langella, in the explanation of vote, who will list the points on which we will give our consent. I wanted to bring two back. One we had already highlighted last year, but you didn't give us the attention we deserved; this year you told us that we were right, so we helped prevent the Italians from being vexed once again, because the Revenue Agency is really a vexer. We prevented it and tried to contribute head-to-head to the reconstruction of the earthquake-stricken municipalities of Ischia. We can say that it was us, and certainly not the Campanian Governor, as the title "The Morning". This says a lot about the news from the newspapers, since we are absolutely not a group close to Governor De Luca, who perhaps should commit a little more to this island of his. We will trust the government for the considerations that Mr Milo made yesterday, for the flash considerations that I have made now and for what Senator Langella will say later. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u31	I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u32	Mr President, the 5th Commission has met to examine, as has already been the case, the cover profiles and the correspondence of the text proposed by the Government with the confidence of the House to that approved by the Budget Committee in the past hours. The Commission has verified the change already reported by the Minister for relations with the Parliament in paragraph 4 of Article 13-a, which contains provisions on motorway concessions, finding their legal nature merely formal, i.e. the inclusion in the procedure of approval of the concessions of the approval of CIPE, which was not provided for in the original text. He then took note of the conditions laid down by the State's General Accounting Office for the favourable opinion expressed in the technical report, which concerned three points. First of all, the use of Article 1-b, on luxury buildings, which involves charges without financial coverage of EUR 5.4 million, and which should therefore be deleted. There were aspects of that rule that have escaped our examination and that, on the other hand, the Accounting Office has highlighted and we therefore recommend that the Government remove Article 1-b from the text of the maxi amendment. Corrections have also been made for amendment 2.4 (text 3) and amendment 7.31 (text 2). In fact, as far as the latter is concerned, there was a procedural error due to the nocturnal time at which we finished our work in the Commission, because it was misreported... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Tonini, you can give us the pages, so that we can follow better. TONINI (PD). The technical report shall indicate at the end of the signature of the Accountant. One of these is amendment 7.31 (text 2), which states that in Article 7, paragraph 10-a must be replaced as It is therefore paragraph 10-a. I would ask you for a moment, Mr President, because I do not find the rule in the text: I know the rule, but I do not find its place in the maxi amendment. The rule is set out in Article 6a on page 20 of the maxi amendment (I thank Senator Bonfrisco for helping to identify the precise point of the text). This is, therefore, Article 6-a, which is entitled "Resources for the fulfilment of the institutional tasks of the State Police and the National Corps of Fire Departments" and transposes amendment 7.31 (text 2). The Commission has found that the text proposed by the Accounting Office is indeed the one approved by the Budget Commission, but then an earlier text has been misrepresented in the final text. So there was a material error in our work, due to the fact that the rapporteur handed over the penultimate text to the secretariat, rather than the last text approved, which was the only one with the consent of the General Accounting Office of the State. We have found these requirements and therefore recommend to the Government to accept the requests of the General Accountant of the State, which also correspond to the actual procedure of the norm in the Commission. The president took note of the opinion, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u33	I greet on behalf of the Assembly students, teachers and companions of the Enrico Fermi Institute in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u34	Mr President, as we agreed at the Commission meeting, the Government intends to accept all three requests for amendment of the text which President Tonini presented and therefore agrees to make to the text on which the question of trust was raised the amendments which allow full acceptance of the conditions set out in the technical report and in the summary letter of the General Accounting of the State on the text in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u35	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u36	Mr President, it is good that a large amendment is tabled and then, during the debate on trust, something is not right. I remember that a few years ago the same happened with the budget law; you told me then that it was not your responsibility, but the government. Now I wonder: in recent years the government has learned to make laws for good or not? It doesn't seem to me, and not just because every time he has to go back to what he's done. We were talking about the earthquake. Every time emergency measures are taken, even when you go to extend or suspend the time limits for paying taxes, you realize that the time allowed by the government is always short. This year, too, the terms of the suspensions are being extended and, if this had been done in time and in good time, people would also have organized themselves. Now again the question of Livorno, which I really want to take for example: you suspend the payment of taxes until 30 September 2018 and then ask for payment in a single solution by 16 October 2018. To those families or entrepreneurs who have suffered any damage, who have a firm business or who have lost their jobs, do you put away taxes, in some way, for a year and then ask them in one solution? You're crazy. These are the rules that then mess up people, because you keep making rules that are wrong and do not work. The breakdown of the folders is the same. You keep making little pieces and putting patches on patches, but you don't realize that dress is to be thrown away. You are at the end of the legislature and, in four and a half years, you have really woven rags, which no longer hold. People really need a government where there's planning and there's a vision for the future, which you don't have. With the Tax Agencies you have been trying to go against the Constitutional Court's ruling for years; you have been trying to bypass a constitutional judgment. I see people in this House who have recently spoken against the voluntary cooperation of those who have escaped, against the dismantling of folders, when in some measures, especially on voluntary cooperation, the Democratic Party and the former PD voted favorably by voting for trust. You, as a government, as small pieces, are trying to find a stable position: you do not have it and you are really risking it, even with tax agencies, if you re-enter the rule within the budget law, to create damage, because tax agencies do not need that autonomy. The reports of the International Monetary Fund and the OECD did not say to do so; they did not say to give full autonomy to tax agencies to do what they want. They didn't say that. They said the plans have to be more organized. But you can't play with the IRS, because the IRS is the basis for collecting taxes and making plans. And we leave in the hands of those who will come a free tax, with that autonomy, with leaders inside who did not have the power to sign and that you are trying to make pass with a fake contest. You have already failed and continue in the same mistake. Then, to say another, continue to fight the escape, going to get who? Small entrepreneurs, those who work with public administration, those you, as public administration, do not pay. I remind you that there was an old promise from Mr. Renzi, who said: "We will pay the debts of the public administration." We are still waiting and even entrepreneurs are still waiting. But not only that: you put them in the split payment and therefore do not pay them VAT, which for them is liquidity, that liquidity that the entrepreneur needs to pay the wages and taxes, those you ask, those that the evaders have not paid, those who have taken away the money from Italy, abroad, and for which you have promoted voluntary collaboration, making them pay very little. But the small entrepreneur squeezes him, so he's here and he can't run away. Anyone with the money is still fine. Anyone who doesn't have it has to, somehow, succumb. This is your vision, which is not ours. We cannot agree with a tax decree-law that you do not see, that does not make a plan. When you approve a tax decree-law linked to a budget law and, therefore, at least an annual view of what concerns the budget and three years on what concerns Italy, the ideas must be clear and well written. Yours are confused and miswritten, as is often sanctioned by the TAR or the Constitutional Court. The only thing I am happy about is that we are at the end of the parliamentary term and finally the Italian people will be able to vote again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u37	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u40	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, thank you. I shall be brief in my explanation of vote. I will only try to remember why, not only today we put trust in this tax decree-law, but what it was meant to do. This was the decree-law from which we expected a lot, that decree which, due to the financial effects it would have determined to cover a budget law that we will begin to assess in the Budget Committee just from Tuesday, should have given adequate cover. However, in the light of what we have read in the text before us, we did not quite understand all those covers where we would find them, in the end. In fact, in the initial text we have seen a lot of spending rules that have been added to many more in the course of the Commission's examination. So much so that, more than a decree-law, has now taken on the features, we see it also from the difficulty with which we read the maxi amendment and its technical report, of one of the many never forgotten omnibus measures, in which to pass everything and sometimes even the opposite of everything, for an ill-interpreted idea of going to meet the consent of all. However, I would like to acknowledge and highlight some important aspects. The first is that if this decree-law has landed in the Senate in a way and comes out much wider, it is not for that assault on diligence that everyone evokes and that no one ever manages to bring back to the true responsible, because also in this decree we recorded how the assault on diligence is done by the Government itself. It is the Government that, with its proposals, but also with others that makes it pass by the rapporteur or colleagues, certainly with good intentions, manages to distort, distort or at least increase a text that obviously had to have many other perimeters. We have seen it with standards that have been approved and standards that have not been approved because they could not be approved. Like, for example, the great reform of the Tax Agency in a decree like this, for reasons of merit as well as form and for a consensus that, evidently, was not even within the Government. The Commission's work has been precise, serious and very responsible and I note two episodes that speak of this serious work of Parliament. First of all: a rapporteur who has been able, patient and effective in collecting and synthesizing the demands of the Government, which presented them continuously, and of its majority and also in the correct dialogue with the opposition. Then, an opposition so responsible that there was a time when, on the substance, a text could or could not be shared both by the Group that proposed it as by other Groups, but having financial coverage considered wrong and wrong, let's say, it was rejected. I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the correctness and ability of the members of the Budget Committee, because even in the opposition, in this case within the 5 Star Movement Group, there has been such a responsible and so cooperative position, not for the purposes of the assessments of the majority or the Government, but for the purposes of the state budget, especially towards the approval of a new budget law and the correct coverage. When tax deductions in favour of those who are weaker in our economic system are called into question, then, at that time, the Budget Committee protects the goodness of those deductions, of that text, but above all its financial standing. I would like to point out a few more things that seem to be positive in this decree-law and I do not escape that. The most important is the breaking of folders. I do not share Mr Bottici's view: this could have been done, and this has been done, by extending and improving that text. Today, that text allows many people to breathe, even those who would have liked to be in order with the treasury but who have often been forced not to do so by the contingency we still call crisis, President. Or the rule of exodus, by which one tries to remedy a twist, a mistake that we have been dragging for years. The safeguard clauses are in place and less bad, even if this measure merely mentions the actual sterilization which has instead been translated into the budget law, made up of 16 billion of the approximately 20 total. Why not remember, then, that the rule against the increase in rates is limited only to 2018. We will continue to have that problem and we have not solved it and this Government still cultivates, in continuity with the previous one, the use of telling of its own work in terms that have little to do with reality, on safeguard clauses and also on other. I think that is the explanation, Mr President, for which the Italians cannot appreciate the positive figures, which we, too, and I also, consider encouraging, of a certain recovery or at least a reversal of the negative data we have recorded, due to the financial crisis and not only, in recent years. For this reason no one is satisfied, because there is never the analysis, nor from economists as well as from Parliament, of how much it really cost to businesses, families and citizens to pay the weight of the crisis in their portfolios, combined with the weight of austerity policies, often senseless, such as those that led the Letta Government to increase VAT up to 28% over the years with very serious damage to domestic demand and consumption. The most attentive economists could practice to answer precisely the question: are we poorer today because of the crisis or because of the wrong policies suggested in European fora or by the international financial system and, even worse, implemented by governments without compass? Here, the compass, the compass of accounts, the compass of what is possible to do, the compass of what is sustainable to do: this we would like to see in a clearer way. We know, and we discount it to this government, the fact that it is its last budget law. This tax decree-law, which accompanies it, is the last economic act of a government that has done everything possible but that if it had had the ideas a little clearer and had been more consistent with the commitments made, it would certainly have done better. That is why, at the request of a vote of confidence, the Federation of Freedom Group can only be against, against the way this work has been done and how the work of the budget law will - alas, I fear - be carried out. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u43	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, today we are here to convert this decree-tax law, a decree supporting the budget law. Given the same title of the measure, it would be expected that it contained considerable support rules in various ways, but the first thing that comes out is that the main measures of this decree remedy errors made by the government itself. The first mistake we want to remedy: we try, with 800 million, to ensure that VAT rates do not click; we remember that it was a left-wing government that introduced these safeguard clauses, namely the increase in VAT in particular was Matteo Renzi. Obviously, then they were used to campaign with the famous 80 euros. The other mistake you always try to make up for with this decree-law is that the government had thought that the voluntary disclosure would come 1.6 billion euros, but they have arrived just 500, so there is no appeal 1 billion 70 million euros, which of course must be covered. Here, this is what is the decree-law under consideration, which tries to find funds and once again does it on the workers' skin. Try to find resources with the split payment, which is an absurd rule because you want to cash in on small artisans, on small businesses that work with the public administration. In the Commission we tried to remedy this by saying: if this action is to be taken, then at least the State will pay VAT within 30 days, because the public administration already has enormous payment times, plus the time for the VAT refund. We proposed 30 days, a term that seems normal to me in the world of work, instead the government, again in this case, said no. Then we go to cash on the exodates, because the number of exodates affected by the eighth safeguard has been cut, or on the games. Here, too, funds have not been secured on consistent operations of common sense, effective savings, even though there were several ways to do so, but still on the games. The one under discussion is a decree-law that contains everything, such as criminal matters. Mr President, tell me how it is possible to include criminal law in a tax law. We are not going into the matter, considering whether those criminal rules are right or wrong, because the rule on remedial conduct that has actually been included is useful; but putting it in this context does not make sense. There should be a good ability to make laws, because they must then be used by citizens, but that is not the case. Then there is the question of pupils. In this respect too, I understand the common sense of the rule, but, Mr President, can you wait until the last second to include these rules? There is a bill signed by me since 2013, but the government preferred to wait until the problem was highlighted and then, at the last second, it inserted the small rule in the tax decree-law, where it has no sense to stay. Several rules, removed from the budget law, have come out of the door and fall out of the window, because they have included them in the tax decree-law, where it did not make sense that they were. This brings us to the question of the earthquake, which is a serious matter. I do not know how many decree-laws we have already approved on the earthquake, perhaps four, and also in this provision a mega article on the earthquake has been inserted. But can we go to the chase on such a fundamental and so dramatic problem for citizens who still have nowhere to go and still have rubble? It is all a chase, because there is not that vision that must have a good administrator instead. We should be in this House doing what is useful and necessary for our citizens, but no, we are concerned, especially at this particular moment, about the future election campaign. We had tried to explain, in the Commission, always with a view to avoiding the waste of money, a proposal of ours that allowed the regions to save the money of the interest of the mortgages and there was a reply that, in fact, that rule would lead to savings of public funds, but because it escaped the control of the central government, then it could not be done. According to you, President, is it right to deny this possibility to the Regions that manage their resources wisely, that they manage to have leftovers of administration, to respect the terms of payment of their suppliers (I make the example of the Lombardy Region, that it pays its suppliers to 20 days and has a surplus of two billions)? What he was wondering was that he could avoid making the mortgage contract when he could only be authorized because there was the surplus and so he would save himself the interest money. The answer was negative, although there has been a clear result, recently, of the referendum, which asked to give powers to a good administrator, who shows that he is capable of protecting the interests of citizens in the provision of services. They say no, because it escapes the control of the central government. Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to touch on the issue of the earthquake-stricken house of that elderly lady, known by all as Grandma Peppina, not so much for the individual affair, but for the question of the bureaucracy system in Italy. You cannot, in the face of a drama like that of this lady, proceed to evict her from her home because there is no landmark authorization. Fortunately - and I thank him for that - the rapporteur, Mr Lai, accepted our amendment to solve this problem, but I hope that in the budget law that we are preparing to face the government he will really have more attention than the real problems of the real people. For these reasons, we will vote against trusting this Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Langella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group will vote in favour of the tax measure. It will do so for specific reasons and for the improvements introduced in the text fired by the Government, which were, in our opinion, significant. I quote a few: the large telephone companies will be forced to change their billing, putting an end to the kind of thirteenth that they had given themselves to the detriment of consumers. We will allow our cross-borders to regularise their tax position; clearer rules will be laid down for off-site students in order to fulfil their obligations towards the Treasury. It will be of great benefit to our citizens who are already hard hit by the earthquake and I quote Ischia in particular on this. As some authoritative colleagues from my previous Group said earlier, we paid particular attention to the earthquake in Ischia, because it is the last earthquake, in order of time, that happened in Italy, with damage and fortunately (unfortunately for those who perished) few deaths. He's been watched out for the best. Everything has been said about this location, but I would like to make a clarification here today: for the first time the Government - and I thank Deputy Minister Morando for this - has understood what we wanted to bring to the attention of the Commission, but I also thank President Tonini and all the members of the Commission - no differentiation has been made between ours and the other regions. I quote, for example, the various building blocks, the tax allowances and then some regulations on the earthquake itself. We have, at least, silenced the usual statements, supported by some populists, about the A-series citizens and the B-series citizens. We feel Italian like everyone else. We have solved our doubts about the responsibilities of accompanying children, allowing families to choose how best to organize themselves. We have extended the length of time during which tax records can be paid, as we already mentioned a year ago, to ensure that everyone pays their dues, of course allowing them to make longer commitments in order to honour the same. We have simplified the procedures relating to the so-called meter, in the hope that in the next parliamentary term we can achieve a much more radical reform than a tax whose essential characteristics remain in the 1970s, when the phone was still being used. Not to mention, finally, the deductions granted for congenital metabolic diseases until now completely neglected, despite their strong expansion. Finally, there is stalking, a crime that can no longer be extinguished from the payment of a simple financial penalty, which was, in our opinion, a terrible injustice. These elements would suffice to justify our vote in favour, but we cannot forget that the decree at our examination is an integral part of the financial maneuver for 2018. It contributes only a small part to the containment of the balances, providing additional resources of 9,7 million for 2018 and about 90 million for the next two years. But these figures are the result of an algebraic difference for next year, consisting of higher revenues for more than 1.3 billion, which go to finance as many expenses as otherwise would be burdened on the Italian public accounts. That then about 70% of these new expenditures, amounting to 862 million, are in capital account is just an extra circumstance, which should make you appreciate better the efforts made. Beyond these issues of merit and accounting findings, there is an exquisitely political fact that cannot be overlooked. These very days we are witnessing a singular fact: after many months the Italian GDP has marked a significant increase, in anticipation, at 1.8% compared to last year's quarter. It must have been a cause for praise, but we have seen, on the part of some European representatives, a new repressing: the accusation against the Italian institutions not to tell their fellow citizens the truth about the real state of our economy. I am, of course, referring to the statements made by the Vice President of the European Commission, whose inopportunity is quite clear, because it shows what the attitude of the European Commission or part of it will be towards the future Italian Government. I believe it is right to respond firmly to this provocation, without further controversy, but by demonstrating in fact this spirit of national cohesion that is the precondition for rejecting to the sender any interference in the life of our Republic. Contrary to what the European Commission thinks - or part of it - ours is not a forked language: we do not hide and do not hide from our voters the difficulties in which the country lives, but we are convinced that we can get out of the disasters caused by the austerity policy decided in Brussels and imposed on Italians by governments not legitimized by a popular vote. And it will come out sooner if it prevails that strong national feeling that drives us to overcome ideological conflicts in defense of simple particular interests. To resume a speech so dear to Francesco Guicciardini, as we have said on other occasions, our Group has not only understood this need for a long time, but has been consistent with it, despite the insults and ostracisms of so much Italian press. Our vote in favour, taking into account the context I have just mentioned, sounds like a further confirmation of this. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u46	Before moving on to the next speech, I would like to say goodbye to students and rearers, teachers and escorts of the State Professional Institute for Hotel Services and Restaurants "Giovanni Falcone" in Giarre, in the province of Catania, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u49	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Mr President, I also said what I had to say during the general debate on the measure. I think that this decree-law, which is part of and constitutes the first segment of the budgetary maneuver, is the result of parliamentary work, which has been carried out together with the Government, certainly useful, because of the results it has obtained and because it addresses some emergencies that we have agreedly identified and in part also agreedly dealt with. I say this because the measure contains so many elements that have been pointed out and supported by various political groups and parliamentary groups, majority and minority. A work has been carried out to amend the original text, which has also intervened by moving into the next budget law entire matters that were included in the tax decree, allowing them to be dealt with in a more complete way in that place, even with the necessary financial cover. However, it has achieved the result of solving absolutely urgent problems, so my vote in favour is also motivated by this aspect. I do not just want to talk about the territory that speaks to me, which has certainly been significantly affected at least by some issues, which I will mention very briefly. The President knows how much we have pushed on the issue of territorial continuity, also presenting a specific motion and intervening in the political debate in this House, convinced that the territorial continuity under extraordinary administration regime of Alitalia, in the phase of the transfer of the former flag company, should not be put at risk to the point of preventing mobility for an entire community like the island. And there is no system solution, because this can be resolved, not only by the execution and successful conclusion of the tender for territorial continuity 1 and 2, but because it is necessary to address the problem of the recognition of islandity as an element of disadvantage of that Region, even in the Community, also for the purpose of defining a system of exempted aid that allows, especially in sectors such as transport (and not only) targeted intervention. We've solved important problems. I'll quote another one. Our railways, those in the Mezzogiorno, those in regional concession, have been excluded until yesterday from the verification and control of the authority responsible at national level. In this way, conditions have been created for very heavy accidents to occur, which have led to very serious mourning in some regions. I quote one: Puglia. This measure contains an amendment by Mr Stefano and myself which solves this problem: it strengthens the supervisory authority; it determines sanctions for those who do not intervene adequately on safety systems; it introduces a procedure for modernising those railway networks, which are, among other things, very frequent and indispensable precisely to achieve the necessary safety levels. Then we did something else. We have worked for the agricultural world by intervening on the agropastoral in Sardinia, but we have done so for all farmers who have contributions and who can have them in good time, as provided for in the current procedure, without that a little heavy funnel that had been introduced in procedural terms. In short, an omnibus measure that, however, satisfies so many situations and circumstances that have been examined, even at the request of the various parliamentary groups, with absolutely productive work. And for this I thank President Tonini, certainly the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, in the person of Deputy Minister Morando, who made this activity possible. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u52	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 148 of 2017 reflects very much the political and economic vision of the Democratic Party with traction, or rather with restraint, Renziano. It is a center-right text that colleagues from Forza Italia and the North League do not vote for only technical reasons. They couldn't have written it better. Let's talk about breaking up the files. Is this a measure that merely facilitates taxpayers who experience their difficulties? Of course not. There is no difference between those who are really in economic difficulty and those who are not. It is a simple extension of the time limits for those who, for no reason, have not yet joined the previous dismantling. Today's measure makes idiots feel both those who had already joined the destruction just expired, but above all those who, like fixed income recipients, from work or pension, pay all taxes because they cannot escape because they have the withholding tax. We have given the possibility to those who have lost in the two degrees of judgment and have arrived in cassation to pay without sanctions, giving up hundreds of millions of euros. Above all, however, we do not distinguish between those who paid the installments and those who did not pay them. We reward those who have failed to comply with the covenants, and we make a dent for those who have respected the rules. Now let's talk about friends, that is the renewal of the ex lege concession for scratching and winning at Lottomatica. Yes, because if it were an extension, the Customs Agency would have had to do it with an administrative act at the end of the investigation. So, since we are faced with a legal renewal, have the provisions of Community law, the procurement code and case law been complied with? We have violated the regulations and, moreover, we will collect less than what we would have collected if we had proceeded to the race. Congratulations! The Italians will be happy and will certainly reward you in the elections. It is perhaps useful to remember what we are talking about in terms of business for Lottomatica. It means, in terms of revenues, 370 million euros per year for nine years, i.e. 3.3 billion euros. In fact, the increase for the dealer of the scratcher and wins represents 3.9 percent of the annual collection, which amounts to 9.5 billion per year. It's a nice business, that's all. Our amendment was rejected by a very narrow majority; it had the necessary cover and the grounds for rejection were ridiculous. Let us now turn to other issues. Is there any provision in this decree-law for exodus? Are you blocking or redefining the automatic mechanism of raising the retirement age? Is there further funding for public health? Is the superticket abolished, really urgent measure? Is there funding for rail transport for commuters? Of course not. Article 15 provides for money only to increase the high speed, which already makes good, but nothing to upgrade trains for commuters. So much for the culture of public service. The decree-law subtracts the financing to the Ilva of Taranto for the reclamation works providing other destinations. A democratic and progressive design was clearly visible in our amendments. We have proposed to delete Article 1, which is yet another pardon called the dismantling of the debitory records, with the exception of universities; and to delete Article 7 on the extension of the duration of the armed forces' summits. We have proposed extending the deferred payments measures for the Livorno flood victims, and at least this amendment has been partially accepted. On health we have proposed to allocate 2.5 billion for the National Health Service in 2017 and 1.7 billion for 2018. In addition, we have proposed abolishing the superticket, covering this measure with about 600 million from other items. We have proposed the reinstatement of ILVA's financing of EUR 534 million for environmental reclamation with cover resulting from the abolition of the reduction of IRES. In the field of work, we have proposed to save the savings resulting from monitoring and verification of the safeguards for exodates and the social EPA for the purpose of future use, and to extend to 30 June 2018 the deadline by which the MEF will decide - on the basis of the ISTAT surveys - the increase of average life. We want automatism in the adjustment of the retirement age to be thoroughly reviewed. With regard to telephone and telecommunications charges, we have proposed to report invoices on a monthly basis (not twenty-eight days). Fortunately, this proposal has been accepted. As for transport, we wanted to strengthen ferrobonus, already introduced by the 2016 Stability Act. We proposed to allocate an additional 150 million more than the 420 already planned. By financing them. For commuters we planned the establishment of a national railway commuting fund at the Ministry of Reference, with a budget of 400 million for each of the years 2017-2018-2019, aimed at financing an extraordinary plan for the development of rail transport, aimed at implementing the goal of five million people transported per day, increasing the presence of commuting trains compared to those on the market as well as the connections on the main commuting lines. We covered the proposal by reducing the deductibility of interest payable to credit and insurance institutions. We proposed to correct the blatant regulatory vacuum on the exit of pupils from middle schools independently to make it possible, as has always been the case through liberations (this is a point on which the majority agreed). In the area of stalking, we have tabled an amendment to exclude the possibility of extinguishing the crime by paying a sum of money, which must remain the civil compensation due without effect on the detection of the crime. And this aspect has also been accepted, even if it was intended, through an amendment by the Undersecretary Boschi, to put a hat on it. But we are superior and we look at the good of women; these puffs we leave to those who have time to lose. Apart from the few exceptions I said, does this decree-law serve the country? No, of course not. It is highly appreciated by serial evaders and the usual neighborhood smarts, but it does not bring any benefit to those who struggle to pull the end of the month. On fair compensation we are in favour of the subject being the ordinalists and the non-Ordinalists. The approved text leaves many concerns open. It will be necessary to clarify what it means to extend the right to fair compensation provided for the legal profession, as it is compatible, also to professionals who are registered or not in orders. For workers not enrolled in orders and colleges there is no procedure for determining parameters and, therefore, for calculating fair compensation, so the rule is very confusing and not applicable as it is. Finally, it should be said that, in fact, we are also talking about minimum compensation and not about fair compensation for lawyers. Finally, Mr President, the digital signature has been included in Article 11-a for a whole series of acts. In this connection, it should be noted that the amendment adopted in the Commission to include this article represents a serious setback in relation to the decisions taken by Parliament in the removal of Articles 44 and 45 of the so-called draft competition law. In that meeting, however, receiving the comments in the appropriate hearing of the national anti-mafia prosecutor, Roberti, was rejected the idea of allowing the creation of new Srls or the circulation of their participations with the digital signature alone, due to the risks of money laundering, identity fraud, forgery of documents, which the use of the digital signature alone involves in very delicate balance of assets and companies such as those in question. With this rule, the shock to the requirements of protection and legal certainty is not only repeated in the areas denounced by the national anti-mafia management (DNA), but also extends to complex and more structured operations of transformation, division and corporate merger. The danger of the rule, as proposed, and the need to correct it as quickly as possible, with all the necessary instruments, even in the next budget law, is clear. For all these reasons, the MDP Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u55	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, this parliamentary term, which is all PD-driven, ends somewhat as it has begun and as it has taken place over the years. A fundamental instrument for the country, such as the tax decree, that is, measures that must be seen as organic compared to the budgetary maneuver that we will go to approve, ends once again to be, simply, a bunch of initiatives, not even harmonious among them. This measure has been defined, also by authoritative members of the majority, as an omnibus decree, which by its definition cannot therefore have a strategic vision of one of the fundamental elements for the development of the country and one of the instruments that can and must be used, i.e. the tax lever. Beyond the title, this measure does not address at all one of the breaking-up elements of our economic system, which is the tax system, as it is seen. In spite of what my colleague from Ricchiuti says, to which this maneuver seems to be center-right, it certainly is not. We do not have such a vision, neither of the economic society, nor of the instruments that the Government must use, in order to meet the growth of the country. We would never have dreamed of implementing an instrument like this, absolutely cross-eyed, because on the one hand it tries to meet the usual known and those who are strong in the country from the economic point of view and also from the point of view of opinion, while on the other it is extremely weak the eye that looks at the real needs of the community and the Italians, who are particularly vexed by an unjust tax. Just a year ago, in the previous tax decree, we wanted to smuggle this as an initiative aimed at a fair tax, the abolition of Equitalia, the breaking of the folders and everything else. A year ago we said that this instrument would be totally ineffective, because the pardon that was implemented was a pardon for rich people, not a pardon for Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, for small professionals, for the typical economic fabric of our nation, which had come out of a very long period of crisis and which therefore was in difficulty with respect to tax agencies. You did not meet the real needs of the country, but you met only propaganda, in order to be able to say and owner in newspapers that you absolve Equitalia and that you made tax forgiveness. You didn't care then, and now you've seen how it turned out, that those tools wouldn't be of any use to our country. And today you return with a pardon bis, which, having the same characteristics as the first pardon, will be crowned by the same failure. Even today you are dealing with that Equitalia that you have not only failed to abolish and modify, but that still continues to put in place the same oppressive methods that we knew because yes, this is an absolutely oppressive tax for our economic fabric. You see, the fiscal lever, the fundamental instrument of the economic policies of a government and a country, today once again sees the measures completely unbalanced. If on the one hand it is said that the country goes at two speeds, if on the one hand it is said that you really have to intervene to overcome the crisis areas of the country, this decree-law instead considers our Italy all long and all equal. There is no fiscal policy for the Mezzogiorno, not even mentioned in the decree-law, and then there is a cultural conception that is all yours on the left. You are divided and divided, but of one thing you are absolutely certain: there is a recovery of the country, which depends on the ability of our small and medium-sized enterprises not only to resist, but to react stubbornly to international circumstances. The recovery of our GDP is all due to this exceptional effort and this capacity of our small and medium-sized enterprise. Instead of developing a tax system that helps this good, strong and robust part of the country to grow, to continue growth and therefore to create new jobs, you limit yourself to spot measures, you simply go and adjust your political situations. In fact, if today Senator Uras can be happy, having passed in the majority area, for the measures in favour of his Sardinia, do you remember that the same characteristics of Sardinia also has Sicily? Perhaps, since your government partners or your parliamentarians in Sicily are not authoritative enough, is it not possible to give the same recognition that is given to an island like Sardinia to an island like Sicily? But what is the point of this way of doing politics or conceiving the government of the country? Going to fix political situations by not having any organic view of the country's interest in an overall way? [[Senator Albano's comments.]] You have shown, with this decree-law not only that you are absolutely inadequate, but also that you are absolutely pernicious in relation to the interests of large geographical areas of our country. I would just like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority that once again you are going to vote uncritically, with your eyes closed, to vote for the government, that for this vision of the country and for these disasters in 2018 you will certainly pay politically. But we regret that it is those who in our country are waiting for reforms and believe us. But in order to get them you will have to wait until the center-right, with its recipes, with its capacity for global and overall vision of the country, can return to the government of our nation. That is why we shall vote against confidence in the measure. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, PPI, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u58	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies will vote in favour of trust in the tax decree linked to the budget law, because it shares its objectives and guidelines. We consider it important that the Decree-Law provides for various measures relating to deductions and incentives for weaker categories and users: in particular the extension of fair compensation to all professions, which at the same time establish strict constraints for public administration. As Autonomous we consider it an important result that it has been accepted and included in the measure what we had proposed also for small rural pharmacies, finally raising the threshold in order to continue to benefit from the discounts, thus ensuring the survival of this service very important for the population, in particular for mountain areas. For us the most important amendment is obviously the one on the concession for the Brenner Motorway and the Venetian Motorways. We believe that this is an extraordinary and very innovative result, not only for Italy, but also in the European context. The solution found finally has a solid legal basis for the conclusion of the concession and convention between the Ministry of Transport and the local authorities. We know that technical documents are still to be refined and that the bureaucratic process is to be completed, but we are confident, on the basis of the acceptance of our proposal, that we can arrive at the conclusion of the new concession in the first months of 2018. The functions of the grantor will continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Transport. I would remind my colleagues that the Brenner Motorway has set aside, from 1997 onwards, the figure of EUR 650 million, which will be transferred to the state budget in order to finance this important infrastructure work, which connects Italy with Europe, namely the Brenner tunnel, which will be the longest tunnel in the world. This transfer will obviously only take place when the new concession is operational. In addition, the new concessionaire will allocate an additional EUR 34.5 million per year to the railway fund, to finance this important project in the future. In addition, the state budget will receive an additional €70 million a year for the first eight years. It is one of the most important operations we have done in this legislature, which benefits not only, clearly, the local authorities concerned, but also the whole of Italy, because in this way we guarantee that the proceeds of this motorway, which is among the most profitable in Italy, are completely destined to works of public interest, rather than to distribute dividends to any private subjects. It is clear that this solution underlines the unitary and strategic character for the realization not only of the gallery, but also for the access sections in the line between Verona and Fortezza and it is essential also in the within of the corridor of European transports TNT, in relation to which the Renzi governments and Gentiloni Silveri have shared the engagement for an increase of the quotas of European co-financing. At this point I would also like to thank the then President of the Council, Romano Prodi, but also the then President of the Brenner Motorway Ferdinand Willeit, who had the foresight to think, as far back as 1997, of such an innovative solution; I remember that at the time it was even forbidden by Community rules to finance with the proceeds of rubber, i.e. with tolls, a work on rail. This solution that we have identified together with MIT and MEF is fully in line with Article 17 of the Community Directive. At this point I announce the Group's vote in favour for the Autonomies, not without thanking Minister Graziano Delrio for the constant support for this initiative, but also Deputy Minister Morando and the President of the Budget Commission Giorgio Tonini for having accompanied this path, which I hope will be concluded with the approval of the law of conversion of this decree-law. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u61	VICARI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fiscal link is the first step in the new budgetary session. A session this year that begins in a macroeconomic context that allows us to be confident for the future. The overall picture is different from that of the beginning of the parliamentary term and has seen us hard engaged in these years. As far as Parliament' s proceedings are concerned, an intensive and laborious work has been carried out on improving and enriching the text, which has allowed us to come to this House today with a shared text. For this reason I would like to thank the availability and collaboration of Vice Minister Morando and President Tonini. During the work in the Budget Commission, a number of substantial amendments were made to the text, which as a whole confirmed the overall layout of the measure and improved certain aspects, significantly broadening the areas of intervention. At this point, I would like to focus on some of the amendments that were adopted during the referee's examination. With regard to companies, I would like to mention the increase in the provision of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, which can also be supplemented by the intervention of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. It is an initiative that greatly increases the financial potential of the trusts and goes in the direction of supporting, through this intervention, the business world. As far as health is concerned, I would like to point out that a scheme for the experimental deduction of food for special medical purposes for two years is being introduced. These foods are indispensable in some diseases of malabsorption for which, given the extension and diffusion in Italian society, we consider it important to experiment with this intervention, helping those who suffer through the possibility of deduction. In addition, I think it is very important that the approved rule on the sale of electronic cigarettes, which is causing a lot of controversy in these hours. On the sales side of electronic cigarettes containing nicotine, we have provided for the prohibition of online sales, establishing that this is possible only through the circuit of tobacco shops and authorized specialist retailers. We felt that health protection had priority over a free and uncontrolled marketing of these products via the web. In fact, the rule refers only to electronic cigarettes containing nicotine. Let's get this straight. Due to the lack of administrative controls that have allowed a series of elusive and evasive behaviour of some companies, the State, on the sale of electronic cigarettes, has collected only 4 million out of 115 expected on an annual basis. Not only that. As a result of the litigation pending at the Constitutional Court after a postponement of the TAR, these same companies applied the consumption tax not on the quantity of liquid (as expected) but only on the quantity of nicotine thus paying only one tenth of what was due to the tax. An authentic scam against the pockets of the Italians. But this isn't over. Because of this administrative and accounting jungle the online trade of products containing nicotine could thus proliferate mainly with trade on websites of foreign companies and allowing some sales not to be regularly recorded and declared. Thanks to this chaos, these products are sold to date without any control (health and tax) even in unauthorized stores where the liquid is even diluted so as to obtain a higher quantity to sell. That is why, with our amendment, I wanted not only to put an end to a genuine illegal nicotine trade but, above all, to allow every single product put on sale to be preceded by a control that allows its traceability and recovery of a revenue of about 10 million euros to date not paid to the detriment of the pockets of all Italians. Just a few hours after the adoption of my amendment came both a judgment of the Constitutional Court that finally makes clarity on the rule in question, and a circular of State Monopoly announcing the closure of sites that sell nicotine products not according to the norm. In short, the legality has had the upper hand despite the threats, even of death and even personal, that in these hours I am receiving on social and private only for having wanted the respect of the rules and the payment of a tax escaped and eluded. We all pay taxes: now we also adapt those who, until now, have earned millions of euros on an illicit trade to the detriment of the health (and pockets) of all of us. Would you allow your children to buy nicotine products without any control? And why should these gentlemen continue to evade taxes? The rules are the same for everyone. And from now on, finally, even for those who protest because of the cessation of an abusive, illegal and dangerous privilege. In the Commission we resolved, through an amendment signed by many political groups, the issue of the exit of children under 14 years of age from school, which emerged following a recent judgment of the Court of Cassation. In this respect, it is expected that parents can authorise school institutions to allow children to leave school premises independently, but also to allow them to take advantage of the school transport service operated by local authorities in an autonomous manner by means of a discharge which exempts school staff and the authorities themselves from any liability related to the fulfilment of supervisory obligations. Another very topical issue that we intend to resolve with this measure is the 28-day billing practice, which must be reformed for the purposes of consumer protection. This practice has been increasingly adopted in recent years by mobile and television operators and is also likely to spread through a sometimes misleading mechanism towards citizens. In this respect, a provision has been introduced which, even in line with the subsequent authority guidelines, provides for the return of billing on a monthly basis (or multiples of the month) with the sole exclusion, in the context of mobile telephony, of temporary promotional offers. It is also important to take a measure in favour of the future young entrepreneurs of the Mezzogiorno, because with the measure "Resto al Sud" we had foreseen that we could access this opportunity up to the limit of the compliment of the thirty-five years, but the longer times of the signing of the convention with Invitalia and the opening of the ban suggested to us to extend the possibility to those who had completed, on the date of approval of the norm, the thirty-fifth year of age, maintaining this term, therefore allowing also those who have exceeded that year to be able to access to this measure. Finally, I would like to focus on the principle of fair compensation. The introduction of fair compensation for the profession of lawyers already contains in itself the prospect of enlargement to other professional realities. In this way we have been able to respond to the demands that this sector has been making for a long time, determining a rule that we can consider the architrave of a system that in the future will be able to extend fair compensation to all professionals. We are confident that in the near future, starting with the draft budget law, some issues can be introduced into our system which, although widely shared, have not found room in the decree-law for tight deadlines, but will certainly find fertile ground in the budgetary maneuver. I refer to issues relating to the contributions of the self-employed to health care managed by bilateral bodies; to the question of socially useful workers (LSU) in some local authorities, to the development and support of caregivers' activities, to the extension of the integration fund and earnings in the fisheries sector. To conclude, we believe that the rules of the decree-law under discussion, strengthened with the precious contribution of Parliament, represent a further step towards the full recovery of our economic and productive system, a contribution to the protection of citizens and families and a decisive push towards a phase of structural growth of the country. The next budget law must be an opportunity to strengthen and consolidate these perspectives. For all these reasons, the Popular Alternative Group will vote strongly for the Government's confidence in the measure under consideration, having strongly and in a determined way contributed to its improvement. [[Applause from Senator Gualdani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u64	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the decree-law under consideration, although not formally linked to the 2018 budget maneuver, is in fact a prerequisite. We have presented a number of proposals, significant and necessary, but as always they have hardly ever been taken into account; among the main proposals of the Government we find instead the provisions for the further dismantling of the folders, on which we will never tire of saying that we are clearly opposed. The government reopens the destruction of the folders, extends it over time and also to the folders of the municipalities, also for the great evadors. The message is therefore clear: escape, so much forgiveness will come sooner or later. This is a wrong choice, but in full continuity with what the right-wing governments have done. Of course, the measures envisaged to combat tax evasion continue to be very timid. A 24-hour editorialist from Il Sole wrote that healing is human, persevering can become diabolical and in this legislature has been a succession of extraordinary occasions to regulate the various slopes with the tax: voluntary collaboration, first and second edition, with the hypothesis of a third to attack the real rock remained intact, that is, the domestic cash; the dismantling of the debitory folders, with rules and terms repeatedly revised and now revisitable again; the faculty of closing the disputes, which so far has not been successful hoped. All these windows have gone to add to the usual tasks, to the less frequent ones such as the assignment of the goods to the members and then to the completely new ones, such as the thickening of the deadlines for the spending meter or the widening of the split payment. The resulting image is that of a disorderly crowd of terms, commitments and options that can also benefit public accounts and defuse safeguard clauses, but certainly do not help the credibility or intelligibility of the system. In fact, everywhere the malicious traits common to all sanatories and more than ever evident in this alternation of options and terms: it is rarely worth accepting the first offer, because often comes a second and maybe a third; the stratification of the regulations easily generates new hiccups and therefore additional need for intervention; the indications dictated at the origin are easily bypassed by those necessary in the following phases. Of sanatoria in sanatoria, 2017 risks to pass to history as the most unstable of fiscal years. We have proposed to extend the split payment to all companies that are part of the public administrations they control or 50% of the shares, to retain 10% of the public administration's payment to all suppliers as a withholding tax - as is currently the case only for professionals -. You have not taken into account the need for a ninth safeguard for exodus with the resources advanced by the octave. The exodates excluded from the eighth safeguard, of which are part ex postal (about 40 units), ex Alitalia and some of other companies like HP and Swiss Re, denounce that all the safeguards issued so far have not definitively resolved the issue Yet it was enough little. They still remain outside the perimeter, according to trade unions data, few thousand workers (5,000 or 6,000 in all), often women in the private sector, already unemployed or who had already signed agreements for leaving the workplace before 31 December 2011 and who, therefore, were planning to retire with the ante Fornero rules within a few years. We have proposed - supporting the demands of the unions - to suspend the enactment of the direct decree that will increase the retirement age to sixty-seven years and to postpone the issue to 30 June 2018 in order to allow to modify this norm; at least we have asked to differentiate the retirement age also according to the gravity of own employment and of the works of care. The government's openings in negotiations with trade unions have so far been truly inconsistent. In the same way we have urged you to devote 150 million euros to the renewal of the regional railway park in order to make to travel in safety the workers and the students commuters reviewing - if necessary - the contract of program 2017-2021 between the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports and the society Italian Railway Network. We also believe that we cannot intervene in a fragmented way in company crises, and therefore we have proposed that a new role for the Deposit and Loan Fund - we will never tire of proposing it - be envisaged in the implementation of a real industrial policy through the establishment of a public investment bank in order not only to protect, with the extension of the golden power, the strategic activities of our economy, but also to relaunch the employment and quality of our productive apparatus. The serious crises of large companies in our territory would urgently require this kind of intervention. I quote one particularly dear to me: I am thinking of Piombino and the serious crisis in this large area. It is urgent to review the usefulness of our participation in certain international missions, starting with our presence in Afghanistan, on which we have repeatedly called for greater involvement of the two branches of Parliament in this parliamentary term. We then proposed an additional funding of EUR 400 million from the Employment Fund, earmarked for expenditure on social shock absorbers and we asked to avoid cutting the Ministry of Labour for EUR 224 million, concentrated mainly on labour inspectors, with the consequent impossibility of carrying out inspections in a context in which accidents, even fatal, have increased compared to 2016 (in the first nine months of 2017 the deaths were 769, with an increase of 2.1% compared to last year), as well as on the ANPAL, which should manage active labour policies. In addition, we have called for the establishment of environmental sustainability criteria and the protection of good work and employment levels in the extension of the Sustainable Growth Fund to large companies in crisis. Completely ignored requests. Like all omnibus decrees, you have used it to resolve some previous mistakes, thanks to the demands of all parliamentary groups. I am thinking of the very serious mistake that had decriminalized the stalking crime until the crime was extinguished with the payment of a sum of money. In this decree was inserted, accepting our amendment (also tabled by many Groups), the possibility of granting authorisations for cultivation production, processing of cannabis also to other companies if the military pharmaceutical institute in Florence were not able to meet the demands. Minister Lorenzin had tried to keep the production of cannabis-based drugs low in the name of defending an alleged state monopoly with the very high risk of denying treatment to many. And finally, I can't help but dwell on that little article you presented about leaving school for under 14 years of age. But why is it that every time you take care of school, you can make a mess? You felt obliged to intervene after the words of the Minister regarding the judgment of the Supreme Court on the tragic case of the child who died in Florence a few years ago, who reminded us all that we must respect the law - we would miss it - and therefore accompany the children of 14 years to school and take them back. The judgment does not introduce a new rule: it reiterates only what the law provides. Suddenly, however, we change and cancel with a sponge stroke important years of work done by families and especially by the school towards autonomy conquered by minors, who now suddenly have to be accompanied to school by parents. There was an uprising in the country by families, principals and the school world because, as always, you invented the slogan, but you cancelled years and years of pedagogy. And to try not to be completely unpopular, also because the exit time of the first grade secondary school is at 14 hours and if the parents work it is impossible to go and get them, you have invented the liberating, that is nothing. In fact, as you know, in these weeks many illustrious lawyers have explained that the liberation does not absolve anyone, because the exit from school and the modalities are part of the organizational functions of the school autonomy provided by our Constitution and above all it is an important pact between family, school and local authorities. The safety of the children at school leaving is not only the responsibility of the school manager, but above all of the mayor who has to take care of safety, sustainable road, transport and build cities with children and girls size able to promote their growth and autonomy. And there are no liberators for the mayors. We are faced with a measure that digs an unbreakable furrow between the exit of children under the age of fourteen, linked to the national education system, to which we intend to guarantee some coverage, and all other similar cases: let us think of the children who attend theater courses, sports or other afternoon activities. Therefore, the possible self-responsibility and autonomy of boys and girls is not safeguarded as a general principle, but as a specific reality linked only and exclusively to the sphere of the school. A new, yet another useless slogan. It seems to me, Mr President, that there are many reasons why the Italian Left should be able to confirm its vote against. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Gatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u67	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, something has changed in the majority of the government, I do not know if you noticed: the narrative has changed. The PD train crosses Italy with new words, never heard from Renzi and the Democratic Party. And it's like an arrow with an arch, it flies fast from mouth to mouth. We feel a wind that leaves us a sense of déjà vu. Where did we hear those words? Who for years has denounced the misdeeds of banks? Who contested Bankitalia's lack of control? Who asked for the removal of Visco? Who has asked politicians to abolish their vitality? The 5 Star Movement. And today we hear these words in Renzi's mouth. We hear Verdini ready to vote on the biological will, a law awaited by the citizens that the 5 Star Movement has brought to Parliament. Let's put it on the calendar right now. Let's schedule the abolition of vitalities. No, it's not. That bill doesn't fit right now. The banks are still doing favors, Visco is still in his place, and the same is true of the vitality. It only changes the narrative and the citizens have noticed it. That's why at the next station, many more whistles than when he left, because they don't do it out of passion, President. I'm not the pink bocca party, I'm the Boccadutri party, the presenter of the law designed to pocket public funding, all of them. What's the difference between Gentiloni, Verdini and Renzi, but could I say Berlusconi, Salvini, Meloni? When they have to pick up the votes they make the coalitions of interest and tell you everything. When they're in the government, they don't change their actions, and we see them in this tax decree, where they always rocket in the same way. A decree-law should intervene on necessity and urgency, but then, if you look carefully, you find that the necessary measures are used to cushion the damage produced by the government. Let us take the overtime of the Forces of Order and the Fire Departments: we would miss that the State did not pay overtime to those who protect the citizens and we do four to cover the shortages of staff. But you had forgotten the extraordinary firefighters, dear lords of the Government, who in summer exhausted themselves to put out fires and fires all over Italy, even though they were dramatically understaffed. And where do you get the overtime money? From thin funds - which you didn't even use - for hiring. Another question, the safeguard clauses: 840 million are recovered to avoid the increase in VAT; there would be no need for that! It is a tax that increases prices and therefore, in proportion, hits the weak groups more precisely, penalizes consumption and kills businesses and employment. Why should VAT increase? The government, ignoring our alarms, had tried to finance itself with illusory operations, saying lightly that, if the money had not arrived, it would have increased VAT. You have placed a time bomb, which you are not disarming, and the millions that you collect with this decree-law and the billions that you will squeeze with the budget law serve only to move the clock: for 2018 you have to find 15.8 billion euros; for 2019 they will serve 18,9, which will become 19,2 in 2020 and 19,5 in 2021. Beautiful legacy left to a five-star government, but we are ready to welcome it, with a government program made directly by the citizens, a candidate President already indicated - while the others on the right and left are camouflaging, without putting their faces on - and a government team that, unique in Italy, will be proposed before the elections, so that citizens have at least the opportunity to choose this, with an electoral law that takes away everything else. We are ready to gather your rubble, but it makes us smile only one thing: you, who have lowered the darkness, claim that we will be a leap into the dark. Then there are other hypocrisies, such as the additional €300 million bridge loan to Alitalia, hoping for a buyer. Alitalia is perhaps worth 230: since 2014, in fact, it has lost two million a day. How many 300 million start-ups could you give birth to? How many healthy small and medium-sized enterprises could be excluded from credit strangulation? Let's go see who you're funding instead. After being practically dumped by Etihad, Alitalia is 100% in the hands of CAI. Let's see who the partners are and let's scroll the shareholders from the bottom up: Marcegaglia, among the great debtors of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena group; the Riva family, that of the ILVA disaster, to which Minister Annamaria Cancellieri offered his attention; Benetton, that of the highways, already protected by the Government on an appeal of 800 million; Roberto Colaninno, not the MP PD, but the father; in the first places, then, we still find the banks, Unicredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, to which you sold the Venetian banks for a euro. It is not enough, there is the issue of Gratta and Vinci, so harmless as to be among the first darts practiced by the children of eleven and twelve years. Do you know that those who begin to venture early are more likely to develop addiction and in more serious forms? Well, the convention has not yet expired, which the Government already makes the following proposal to the concessionaire: you give me 800 million and I, in return, I renew the concession now, without going through a competition. In spite of the principles of free competition of the European Union and those on public contracts, a business of 2.7 billion is handed over as a monopoly to a company that has taken its tax residence abroad, but has been very generous in financing the government parties. I close with a virtuous chapter, but let's see how it was dealt with: the Government had proposed an article of two paragraphs on the subject of the territories hit by the earthquake, forgetting a lot of issues. We now have more than 21 pages of amendments in the Commission. Of course, the media pressure on the failure of post-earthquake management has made your wrists tremble. To sum up, Mr President, in this measure we have rules that can be challenged in a clear sense, favours the usual friends, bits that go to buffer errors and government inertias and some necessary measures, but dealt with superficially. We have a new majority. It is done to say, because it is like a mixer: something enters and something comes out but it is always the same mortar held together by the cement of interest. Even at the end of the parliamentary term, he is not showing anything new. It is therefore impossible to give confidence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u68	There is a representation of students from the Institute including Giuseppe Sacconi Rotella di Montalto delle Marche, in the province of Ascoli Piceno. To them we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u71	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we will vote against this measure for a few reasons which I try to explain, leaving at the end of my speech a general consideration on the rule that, unique, should have been in this measure: the facilitated redefinition of tax burdens. The first reason is as follows: I was pleased to hear President Gentiloni Silveri, who, evidently, was on a day of particular good humor, say, about the budget law, who made it a very slim one. Now, saying that a law that starts with 120 articles is slender made me smile. Therefore, I must say that an additional positive note has been added to President Gentiloni Silveri: he also has a sense of irony and this is good for him; above all, in this case, he has a sense of self-irony and this is even better, of course. Now, more or less, having to deal with that speech, let's face this, which begins well. When we had to do something about the tax burden, we took care - not us, the most famous level of diligence assailants, but the government - of an interesting issue: the reduction of the body of the prison police gang. That's wonderful, Mr. President! And I am convinced of this new affliction between you and the government because it makes the task easy for you. How can extraneousness by matter exist any more, in fact? We also remove this task from the President of the Budget Committee and the President of the Senate. I am, on the other hand, an admirer of the fanfare of the targets, I am for the increase of this formation of parade band because it is beautiful; and now, finally, I will be able to insert an amendment into the budget law. Mr President, these laws need to be amended, not because I do not realise the need to solve small issues that are sometimes very important, but because this is the example of overlapping laws that are detrimental, first of all to taxpayers and citizens and then to the efficiency of the state. The prison police gang, I take it not only as an occasion for my ironic intervention, but because, recently, we passed a lawless and ponderous, about 400 pages, in which, even, we established how many clarines in flat and how many clarines in fat major were to be part of the body of the prison police gang. Well, let's insert that prediction into that legislative decree so that, at last - and here I become serious, - even the prison police gang will know how many are the clarins in F major and how many are the ones in F flat. Mr President, this way of legislate, frankly, is not good. But why is this important? It is because it takes Parliament away from the fundamental problem. This decree-law had two fundamental presuppositions: the need for new revenue for 2017 and the need to review some burdensome issues for citizens related to the so-called tax break-up. These are necessary prerequisites. Consequently, it would have been useful if Parliament had concentrated on this problem or solved it, perhaps referring to another law, whatever the budget law or any other law, the solution to a number of problems. The same applies to the question of the earthquake, which is much more important in terms of cargo. It is not possible that every law discusses the earthquake, with the consequences we know. It is understandable that this way of legislate provides justification for everyone, for those in good faith and for those in bad faith, Mr President, because in this way the machine of relief and reconstruction is completely jammed. On the contrary, practices are promoted that evidently harm both the speed and morality of earthquake interventions. The issue is no longer ironic, but very serious; once and for all, a measure on the efficient earthquake is fired, capable of affecting the problems that have arisen and giving relief to those populations. It is not possible to continue to legislate and read every day that serious difficulties remain. I now turn, Mr President, to the question of extending the simplified definition of tax loads. On this point, I would like to point out to you, the President of the Senate, how Parliament, too, has written a good piece of legislation in relation to the measure that was passed on to us. Here is the other lack of decree-laws: when they are issued we do not fully realize the problems, so they appear as bad texts, not easily recognizable and certainly not able to give satisfaction to the needs that have made them necessary. That is why, in Parliament, all together, of course, with the merit of the majority, the rapporteur, the government, but also because of the opposition, which always shows the serious will to build something that serves the citizens, we have made sure that the extension of the simplified definition of tax burdens was certainly not the solution of problems but a new possibility for citizens and taxpayers. In particular, Mr President, the reopening of the terms for the facilitated definition of the cargoes entrusted in the period 2000-2016, even if they were not subject to declaration, is a significant novelty of this decree-law, which we have helped to make possible, thus giving meaning to the measure. I have mentioned only one of the most important innovations regarding the facilitated definition of tax loads, but there is also a new deadline and there are other rules of some interest. Of course, they are not the definitive solution to the problem, but progress has been made, as my group's colleagues, Senator Mandelli and Senator Ceroni have already said. Mr President, I shall finish. Ours is an overall negative judgment on the measure. We believe that Parliament today has shown, more than the Government, a particular sensitivity to the problems of citizens, operators and entrepreneurs; that the opposition, in particular, has taken on these problems, making a decisive contribution to resolving some important issues, and that this way of working would be desirable. For this reason, we consider that the measure under consideration is insufficient. In our opinion, the crowding of further norms is one of those damages that we consider important for the farraginous Italian legislation, one of the plagues to be eliminated also in the key of economic growth of the Nation. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group votes against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u74	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the tax decree before us presents important measures, which, on the one hand, contribute to the coverage of the interventions that will be foreseen in the next budget law, already under consideration by Parliament, including the important sterilization of the increase in VAT rates and excise duties, and, on the other hand, contains measures to correct, on certain points, the accounts for 2017. The measure is located in an economic context in a decided improvement: the gross domestic product has resumed to grow, after years of recession and stagnation, with a constant and increasing pace - it seems important to me to emphasize - perhaps higher than the same increase of 1.5% that had been expected, with important repercussions also on the employment and prospects of the country. The budget deficit continues the reduction path, which will lead to a balanced budget in 2020 and also begins to reduce the debt burden on GDP. The actions of the measure are articulated on several plans and the most important one concerns the fiscal interventions. In this regard, the debate carried out in the context of the conversion of the decree-law allowed to add, to the measures already envisaged, important innovations, especially in the very delicate relationship between citizens and tax administration and on the topic of litigation. Beyond the individual measures, the extension of the deadlines for the dismantling of the folders and the reopening of the terms, also for debts related to the cargos from 2006 to 2016, that obviously had not found solution until now, have the objective to allow companies and taxpayers to close the slopes with the tax and to reduce consistently the litigation, as well as the improvement of the so-called spentometer, removing the sanctions on the communications of the first half 2017, that were experimental and, as such, subject also to many errors and misunderstandings, allows to return this instrument to its original nature and not to be oppressive towards the companies and citizens. A good job has therefore been done on this side. The question of the timing of the right to deduct VAT by companies remains open, partly trapped in a date mechanism which penalises this possibility and which must certainly be resolved in the budget law. The second area concerns natural disasters, on which, beyond easy criticism, the interventions for the various areas already covered by previous interventions have been updated and adapted. It has been realized - as my fellow Members who have spoken on this subject know - that the nature of these repeated earthquakes and the very large extension on very different territorial areas, unfortunately, makes it necessary to adapt, because of the many malfunctions that remain, despite the positive intervention. As we know, the list of disasters has unfortunately been updated in recent months, with the situation of Livorno and Ischia, which find in the measure important solutions and adequate answers. The third area of action is support for business and development. The activity of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises is strengthened, with the intervention of Cassa depositi e loani, in order to favor the propensity, already increasing, to the investments, as well as to the liberal professionals the audience of participation in the trusts, always in terms of guarantee for the investments. There are also important innovations for the self-employed, already explained by the rapporteur in a comprehensive way, on fair compensation and on the possibility of deduction, as self-employed professionals, of contributions that feed the welfare benefits for bilateral bodies. Finally, there is a very broad chapter on transport, infrastructure and road (I am thinking of bridges on the Po, but also of the many railway issues and airports), which aims to ensure growth and development. In the same third sector, which has been the subject of very important interventions, the possibility of using the existing tax regime for 2017 and of starting the reform itself from 2018. A great deal of attention has also been paid to the problems of citizens and consumers. I mention only three titles: billing of bills with regard to telephony and more, with the famous twenty-eight days becoming monthly or several-monthly, clarifying a norm for the benefit of consumers; the theme of leaving school, which is entrusted to a clear and concrete relationship between school and families; the solution of a vulnus that concerned the so-called young people who have come across in recent years, subject to a payment of excessive taxes, which in this measure finally find a measure of return. There are still some measures that have passed to the budget law, as their own seat. In particular, I would like to highlight the issue of social security, a sensitive issue in many respects, in which it was rightly considered to wait, possibly hoping that an agreement would also be reached between the Government, the social partners and the trade unions. The same applies to the issue of self-government and tax agencies. I shall conclude, Mr President, with one comment. The work in the Budget Committee on the Decree-Law was very positive, with a concrete contribution from the different groups of majority and opposition, different from the climate (I understand, of course, the official needs) of the statements we have also heard in the speeches this morning. The hope is that this concrete climate of discussion and cooperation will continue in the budget law. Everyone maintains their ideas, but in order to improve the country, to give more opportunities to companies and the world of work, to give more perspectives to young people and citizens, I think it is appropriate to collaborate and find together reasons for dialogue and positivity. For all these reasons and with these wishes, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the issue of trust. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u76	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u77	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the usual dissent from my group, I declare that I will not participate in the vote of confidence. This provision contains harmful things, useless things, and useful things. It is one of the latter who is causing me to give up voting against it. I am referring to the introduction of fair compensation for occupational benefits, which is a fundamental principle, whose affirmation is all the more important as the greater the propensity to degrade work, to the extent that it often demands its gratuitousness. This is a further step in the direction of the statute for works designed by Marco Biagi and dedicated to ensuring fundamental safeguards for all works, both dependent and independent. It absorbs the main content of my bill, now under examination by the competent Commission of this House, although it must not be forgotten the part devoted to certain times of limitation of the civil liability of professionals. Like all victories he has many fathers, even if until the day before yesterday there were not a few who were ingenious to assume the constraint of fair compensation only for public administrations, to distinguish some professions from others or, even, to propose a minimum hourly wage for works that are measured as a result. I am therefore satisfied with the decision to apply it to all clients as well as to all professionals, because the principles do not tolerate derogations and because the implicit objective remains the protection of consumers from poor benefits. Now an interpretative act will have to contribute to giving a certain definition of vexatory clauses intended for nullity, just as it will be able to identify in the uses detectable by the chamber system the necessary reference for the unregulated professions. Work, in short, is not a commodity and with this rule we have helped to give you dignity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u80	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the House, if possible, for a minute's attention. We have noted three inconsistencies in the text, which are simple, clearly of a material nature and not of substance, which, however, is good for the House to know before it votes. That is why I asked the President to speak. That's three points. The first concerns the famous amendment on the police force, which we discussed this morning, which was the subject of the report of the General Accountant of the State, due to the fact, as I explained earlier, that the text of the amendment included in the text approved by the Commission was not the latest version but the penultimate one, for a mere editorial error after the Commission's work. The accountant detected this lack and reported it. However - and it says not an admirer, but a worshiper of the General Accounting of the State - the General Accountant is also a man, so he can make a mistake. BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). If she were a woman, she wouldn't be wrong. TONINI (PD). The Accountant points out that Article 7, paragraph 10-a, must be replaced. It is clear, from the same technical report and from the graphic highlighting in the text of the maxi amendment boiled, that it is not the paragraph 10-a, which concerns - I say this for those who have participated more actively in our work - the workers of the NATO bases closed, but the paragraph 10-e, which is actually the paragraph in which the issue of overtime of the Forces of order is addressed. The substance is not in question. The second question is Article 2b of the maxi amendment, where, in order to make the rule unmistakable, it is necessary to add the word 'alternatively' before the word 'prorogated' is added, because it is an extension of an extension. I think it may be a common sense interpretation, but in these cases it is always better to exceed in precision than to approximate by default. Therefore, in paragraph 44 of article 2-a, after the words "converted" with amendments by law of August 1, 2012, n. 122, is "to be added," adding "further" before the word "prorogato" is to be absolute precision. The third question concerns the norm on cannabis, which could evidently lead to some loosening of attention. There has been an excess of zeal in the work of amendment, in the sense that two amendments have been inserted in two different points in the text of Article 18-c, which say the same thing. If you observe the text in paragraph 1, the second period says "The Ministry of Health, with its own decree, may authorize one or more entities or undertakings to cultivate and process further portions of cannabis for medical use" in addition to those of the military pharmaceutical chemical plant in Florence. Paragraph 3 repeats the same concept with the phrase: "If the cultivation of additional quotas is necessary." It is then proposed to express this concept only once and not two times and, therefore, the Government is asked to delete the second period of paragraph 1, being more than sufficient in the norm paragraph 3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u81	Mr President, the Government agrees with the technical correction requirements that have just been presented by the President of the Budget Commission. I should like to apologise to you and your colleagues, and to take advantage of this opportunity, I would also like to ask you to be able to make a mere formal clarification on Article 17b. It is an article through which the Commission has decided, of course in full legitimacy, to include, within the objectives of the 5 per thousand, also that of support for the managing bodies of the protected areas. In order to avoid the possibility of thinking that it is the creation of a new 5 per thousand, the concept must be made explicit in Article 17-b of the text of the maxi amendment and after the words "to 5 per thousand of the income tax of the natural persons" add "to Article 1, paragraph 154, of Law No 190 of 23 December 2014. In this way this legal reference makes clear what was obvious in the Commission's decision. It is not the creation of a new 5 per thousand which, as such, should have been financially covered, but, within the purposes of the 5 per thousand, as it is, the aim of supporting the managing bodies of the protected areas is introduced. This is obvious, but we would not want the lack of such a reference to raise doubts as to whether we are creating a new 5 per thousand. Thank you, Mr President, if you will take these needs into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u82	We take note of these changes. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u83	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 148 of 16 October 2017, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, the senators Napolitano, Pinotti, Russo, Buemi, Longo Eva and Marinello. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Ciampolillo is drawn by lot.) PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Barani, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, D'Ascola, De Biasi, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Lucia, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Falanga, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Lolena, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Formigoni, Fravezzi Gambaro, Jacobo, Giannini, Ginetti, Ginetti, Gualdani, Guerri, Faverini, Faverini, Faveri, Faveri, Ichini, Ichini, Ichini, Ichini, Ichini, Ichini There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Arrigoni, Augello, Auricchio, Azzollini Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bernini, Bignami, Bilinella, Boccardi, Bocchini, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bubbico, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Cassinelli, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Consiglio, Conti, Corsini, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Davicolini, De Cristofaro, De Petrisso, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fornaro, Fucksia Gaetti, Gasparri, Gatti, Girlini, Giersi, Girlini, Giars, Giargio, Giargio, Giargio PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 148 of 16 October 2017, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 265 Senators voting 264 Majority 133 Favorable 148 Contrars 116]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 148.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-909.ana.u85	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 27 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.34 p.m.
