ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 23 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u4	By letter of today's date, Senators Bubbico, Casson, Corsini, Dirindin, Fornaro, Gatti, Gotor, Granaiola, Guerra, Lo Moro, Migliavacca, Pegorer, Ricchiuti and Sonego announced that they would set up the parliamentary group called Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement, indicating Senator Maria Cecilia Guerra as President of the Group. Therefore, these senators cease to belong to the Democratic Party Group. Senator War, good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders, meeting today, has not defined changes or additions to the current timetable. Taken note of the Government's statement, which took place here, about the need to postpone to next week for a deepening of the bill to the first item on today's agenda, I have the reverse in order to anticipate the continuation of the examination of the bill on the protection of unaccompanied minors.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u6	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2583, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1295. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 23 February the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a question for a preliminary ruling was rejected and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u7	Mr President, even on the sensitive issue of unaccompanied foreign minors, any controversy and any distinction are obviously legitimate, but after listening very carefully to the general discussion, I feel it is my duty to reiterate a concept that is at the very basis of this bill and goes beyond its humanitarian vocation: a law that tackles in an organic way the problem of unaccompanied foreign minors is necessary to comply with the commitments made by Italy in various institutional fora over the last decades. I have already mentioned in the introductory report that the current legislation to protect non-EU foreign minors in Italy is numerous and dispersed in a series of norms of different degrees (conventions, laws, decrees, regulations, circulars). It comes from two regulatory bodies: the one that regulates the protection of minors and the one that regulates the administrative position of non-EU foreign nationals in Italy. But before even mentioning international agreements, I advise you to reread Articles 2, 3, 29, 30, 31 and 37 of the Constitution. The overall picture of these articles shows that the Constitutional Charter considers the child to be a person worthy of specific protection in the different dimensions of his/her person. End to which, in all evidence, tends this bill. Italy signed the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in New York on 21 November 1989, ratified and enforced by Law No 176 of 1991. Among the rights enshrined in this Convention, I think it would be useful to recall: the right to consideration as a pre-eminent of the child's interest in administrative and judicial proceedings, the right to non-discrimination, the right to protection, the right to assistance, the right to development, the right to respect for cultural identity and the right to listening and participation. I would also like to quote, for the sake of complete information, the Luxembourg Convention of 20 May 1980 and the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980 on the custody and removal of minors ratified and enforced by Law No 64 of 1994, the European Convention on the exercise of the rights of children of 25 January 1996 and then the Council Directive 2003/9/EC of 27 January 2003 requiring, inter alia, Member States to take rapid measures to ensure the necessary protection of unaccompanied foreign minors. I have made this premise, Mr President, to say that this measure should be criticized not for its content, but for the serious delay with which it comes in relation to the commitments made by our country and maintained so far only in a partial and fragmentary way. In this reply I will not go down on the level of the controversy even harsh ones that have been raised in general debate on a sensitive topic that perhaps deserved not to confine in the tones above the lines heard in some speeches. However, I have a duty to make a number of clarifications on issues which I consider to be fundamental. First of all: there was no commissioner of the rapporteur on the part of the government. (16.41) (Following Mazzoni). The decision to withdraw the amendments tabled, which had certainly been tabled in order to improve the layout of the text that came out of the Chamber, was made in the awareness of the urgency of adopting a necessary law, a position shared by the majority of parliamentary groups, an urgency reinforced also by the high appeals of the Head of State and the Pontiff on the occasion of the Day of Refugee and responding to repeated appeals of associations that deal with unaccompanied foreign minors. The Minister of Interior Minniti himself, who has also given a turning point in the direction of firmness to Italian immigration policies, in his hearings in the first Commission, in the Schengen Committee and in the Human Rights Commission, has strongly stressed the importance of adopting this law quickly for the protection of minors. There was a broad consensus between the forces of majority and opposition, so it was decided to dismiss the same text that came out of the House. Not to abdicate to the prerogatives of the Senate, but to ensure rapid approval of a basic norm of civilization. The text was then amended in the first Commission by adopting five amendments, Article 81, imposed by the Budget Commission. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u8	Colleagues, we have concluded the debate and the rapporteur is replying. I would ask you to reduce the buzz and start focusing on our work. I understand the time, but I would ask you to pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u9	Mr Mazzoni, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. This may seem paradoxical, given that the intention was to approve the same text as the House and it was therefore assumed that the General Accounting Office had already given its opinion on a draft law that came out of a branch of Parliament, but I do not think that this is the place to open this controversy. However, it is not true that, after the intervention of the Accounting Office, the funds that this law will have are less than EUR million. I invite my colleagues who have made this point to read the technical report of the General Accounting of the State, and will realize that: the total allocation of Chapter 2352 (Fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors) is equal to EUR 170 million for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019; that, with regard to Article 8, in the "Child Justice and Community Justice" chapter, an appropriation of EUR 29.920.333 is foreseen for 2017; that, with regard to the costs associated with the reception of minors in the SPRAR, the cost of enlargement (over EUR 43 million) will be incurred in the context of the resources available from the National Asylum Fund for policies and services, the budget of which for 2017 amounts to more than EUR 396 million. Therefore, this is not a flag law, because nobody here intends to plant flags, but only to give answers to a social problem of great importance. And I hope that the same Members who mentioned the allocation of less than EUR million will not protest because there are too many millions now. I find it wrong and misleading to define this law as a commercial in favour of the traffickers of men and the 17-year-olds who reach our coasts all as potential criminals. If 53% of these children are 17, this is certainly not a good reason not to pass a law transposing the UN Convention in New York, according to which a minor remains a minor until the age of eighteen. One of the objectives of this law is to prevent these children from ending up in the network of organized crime and to ensure a safe path of integration both to those who want to stay in Italy, and to the many who want to reach their families in other European countries. If we can prevent ten of these non-EU young people from disappearing every day on Italian territory, we will have made a service both social and in terms of safety for those who consider them as a public danger. A final clarification on the determination of the real age of unaccompanied foreign minors. On 6 January last, the regulation that defines the mechanisms for determining the age of unaccompanied minors victims of trafficking entered into force, adopted in implementation of Article 4 of Legislative Decree No. 24 of 2014. The regulation finally regulates in a clearer way the procedures for determining the age of unaccompanied minors who are victims of trafficking, even if there are still gaps that can finally be filled with this law. [[Applause from Senator Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u10	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u11	Madam President, the government's position is that of those who strongly advocate the adoption of this text of the law. Beyond the technical details, it addresses, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, in an organic way an issue with which - just look at the numbers - we will be forced to confront ourselves for the next few years in an increasingly significant way. The most important points, already well identified in the general discussion, are essentially four. First of all, there is a much more accurate procedure than is currently the case with age determination. It is well known that, from a technical point of view, the most recent studies tell us how the mere extraction of the wrist X-ray is a completely inadequate instrument to establish the real age of the minor because it has a degree of approximation with a margin of error close to the two years and, secondly, because it is calibrated on layers and sections of the population on which it has been experienced until today, namely the Anglo-Saxon group, all the opposite of the people who today land on our territory. I note and recall that the criteria for determining the age of the child have already been the subject of attention both by Parliament and by the Government. You will all remember that, within the framework of the delegation relating to trafficking in human beings, the Government was given a delegation in relation to the preparation of a regulation through which it could be achieved the determination of the minor age in terms more certain than those hitherto practiced. The Government has exercised the delegation that Parliament has conferred upon it and has been approved a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, a decree that says exactly what this House is about to approve today and that is precisely how it determines the determination of the minor age. The attempt to distinguish that regulation from the legislative text that is under discussion today, in my opinion, is without adequate justification for a very simple reason: that decree of the President of the Council does not serve to determine whether or not the child has been the victim of trafficking, but to establish the minor age of the person who has already been the victim of trafficking. Therefore, it would also be difficult, from a technical point of view and of overall maintenance of the system, to explain why in those cases those rules have been carried out and today we should proceed with different rules. The second qualifying point, as the senators probably know much better than I do, concerns the appointment of guardians, which today is essentially late and takes on almost exclusively exponential and political representatives of the local authorities, normally for numbers even difficult to accept. In essence, it happens not uncommonly that a mayor finds himself being the guardian of a disproportionate number of unaccompanied minors and therefore, in reality, has no chance to follow its events and to care for its interests. The law, also from this point of view, seeks to create a little order and, therefore, to make more effective the protection to be provided to minors through the appointment of the persons who should represent them. The other two points, very briefly, concern the absolute prevalence that the regulatory text gives to the family care. The establishment and establishment of reception facilities following the project "Protection system for asylum seekers and refugee status (SPRAR) for children" are not simply planned, which has already been condensed into the National Plan approved at the Unified Conference in July 2014. In addition to doing this, it specifies how the solution of trusting the structures is completely residual; what must find absolute prevalence in the application of the law is the family custody, in the awareness that they are instruments and weapons that can be used to better protect the child, as they provide, in addition to our Constitution, all the international conventions that we have signed in this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u12	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u13	Madam President, with Amendment No 1,101 we propose that the wording of Article 1 be made reasonable. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 states: "Unaccompanied foreign minors shall have the right to the protection of minors on equal treatment with minors of Italian nationality or of the European Union." It is enough to be or to be, perhaps transiently or even by chance, as an unaccompanied alien and have the same rights of protection as Italian children or the European Union. It would seem to me the least to include the words that we propose, namely: "in the cases and in the modalities provided for by this law", which is reasonably done almost always, when you want to make a sensible law. Some cases could be given. Let us say that an unaccompanied 17-year-old arrives (maybe the parents are there, but they say they are not, so much they are without documents and the problem is really small) and he openly says that he comes to Italy to sacrifice himself for the holy war and kill a little 'of Christians or personalities: we, with this article 1, must accept him and experience all the procedures envisaged. Or, at the opposite extreme, we take the case of a schoolboy on a trip from outside the European Union, therefore without family members (maybe there will be a teacher or a companion, who has been fully invested and authorized by the parents to accompany the children): let's say that one of the children arrives and does not have a passport: therefore he is a minor foreigner without documents, not accompanied. Instead of sending him back to his country with the first plane, perhaps by contacting his parents, he must be subjected to the whole procedure - guaranteeing, in general - provided by this law: taking him to the center, identifying him, seeing what his needs are, subjecting him to emergency care, as if all cases were equal. This is a law written on the assumption that all unaccompanied minors who arrive in Italy are people at the death-threatening death-threatening end of the most atrocious sufferings. It is clear that in these cases children must be welcomed and cared for and all that must be done must be done, but with this article this situation becomes mandatory, with the addition that there is the hypothesis that these people declare themselves underage without being underage. Since there is the clause that says that, in doubt, these must be considered underage and the representative of the Government told us that clinical examinations do not serve, all those who declare themselves underage will have to be welcomed in Italy, regardless of any circumstance, even against their will. We really get to excesses. In fact, then, as if to justify a paragraph 1 frankly unreasonable, even if starting from good intentions, paragraph 2 explains the reasons why it is expected what is written in paragraph 1: you should not write a law like this! After writing an unreasonable paragraph 1, in paragraph 2 it is said that these provisions apply to unaccompanied minors due to their condition of greater vulnerability. But where is the vulnerability of a large and large 17-year-old who comes here by his own choice, perhaps for criminals? Where was the vulnerability of those foreign minors who, in the year 2015 alone (of the past year we still do not have the data), successfully carried out 32 murders? Should those also be considered more vulnerable, as well as the perpetrators of 17,000 other crimes, whose perpetrators have been identified? Then there is the infinite and much larger number of crimes whose perpetrators are not identified and of which we do not know if they are foreigners or Italians, minors or adults. And we all want to benefit from the conditions laid down in this bill. These are amendments of simple reasonableness, which do not distort the bill and above all do not affect those to whom the bill is rightly addressed, that is, minors who are really in situations of serious danger and who perhaps arrive in Italy really, in some rare cases, exhausted, injured or in imminent danger of life. We cannot turn exceptionality and emergency into a rule, especially at a time when Italy is subjected to a migratory pressure that has no precedent in history. Perhaps, if we go back to the fourth-fifth century, we find something similar, but the numbers were certainly lower, even at the time, also due to the generally smaller population. I therefore hope that there will also be some common sense and not just ideology in this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u14	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u15	Madam President, I call for all amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u16	Madam President, I am against all the amendments, except Amendment 11,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u17	Thank you, Undersecretary Mantua. However, we are now examining the amendments tabled to Article 1. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u20	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in the light of the rapporteur's adversarial opinions - and I stress this because there is irony here - I repeat that the House (I am referring to the majority, which is also supported by an important opposition group, which I hope will then take the floor) is about to adopt a measure whereby anyone who claims to be less than 18 years old and not to be present with family members is entitled to be welcomed, pampered, supplied with everything and kept indefinitely on Italian territory, at the expense of the taxpayer and without any limit. I repeat: even the minor who comes and openly declares to come to Italy in order to carry out massacres and even those who would be happy to return, because he arrived at the border by mistake, these too are necessarily welcomed. So, unfortunately, here we are giving the measure an ideological, utopian brand in the best of the hypotheses, and - I hope without wanting it - we are helping all those who will be enriched with the welcome business, which, as was well known by the famous intercepts concerning Mafia Capital, makes more of the drug business. Then, since the reception of children in danger is a necessary fact, let us make it well structured, make it reasonable and distinguish the reception of children in danger from the indiscriminate reception of all those who claim to be eighteen years old. Also because the case wants 53 percent of unaccompanied minors arriving in Italy to be between seventeen and eighteen years old. Curious, isn't it? Out of 18 age groups, 53 percent are over seventeen years of age. Either there is a strange phenomenon among those born in 1999 or 2000, so at that age it is desired or selected to come to Italy or, much more likely, those who are seventeen years old declare that they are seventeen, those who are eighteen declare that they are seventeen, those who have nineteen idem, those who have twenty idem, and so on, since the Government has said that they cannot determine the age. Then the Undersecretary said that there is a margin of two years: I would already settle for two years, so at least we would welcome only the 20s and the 30s we consider them to be of age. Instead of that, let's go on like this. Each will assume its own responsibilities, but the consequences, the 17,000 crimes committed by foreign minors during the last year detected, do not fall on the shoulders of those present (except someone), but on the shoulders of all Italians. This is a very serious fact, but we want to protect foreigners who claim to be seventeen years old, even falsely, much more than Italian citizens. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u23	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, we have just finished discussing in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a decree-law of the Government which, in some way, aims to create a balance between immigration and security, restoring the IECs and a whole series of other structures. Perhaps what Mr Malan says is not true? I would also like to have an answer from the rapporteurs. There is a great consensus that children who for various reasons - either because they survive a shipwreck or because they are entrusted to third parties - must be welcomed in Italy, but if it is true that 53% of those who arrive claim to be seventeen (the age at which they leave for military service, the age of maximum physical strength and prestige) and can declare that they are seventeen even if they are eighteen, nineteen or twenty, I would like to know how a responsible Government and Parliament protect us compared to those who declare false. Or I would like to know if there is an automatism whereby all those who arrive in those conditions, without documents, because they throw them away and maybe refuse to decline their generalities or give the correct generalities, can be accepted. If there is also a tendency to commit crimes in that age range, the problem becomes even more complex. Here no one asks not to approve regulations that protect unaccompanied children in Italy, but I do not know that a 17-year-old (I repeat: the age at which he leaves for military service) is a child. Nor do I understand that those who, even of age, use this instrument to be accepted in Italy do something lawful and permitted: the legal order must, already in the law, put in place mechanisms such as to avoid this risk and this danger. I would like to hear from the Government reassuring words about the possibility that there are not thousands of people of that age who arrive in Italy taking advantage of this gap in our order.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u24	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,102, which is identical to Amendment No 1,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u27	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in the first paragraph of Article 1, we correctly equal the unaccompanied minor from the point of view of ownership of rights relating to the protection of minors, to Italian children and to the European Union. Therefore, all the rights of the Italian child and the minor of the European Union are the responsibility of the unaccompanied minor. You want to explain to me what this second paragraph is for? If the paragraph is put to the vote, I will not vote, because I do not want to be responsible for a rule that has no meaning. The second paragraph reads as follows: The provisions of this law shall apply to unaccompanied foreign minors because of their condition of greater vulnerability. I therefore wonder whether we have granted them all the rights of protection in equal treatment with Italian minors, as provided for in the first paragraph, or whether the rights are recognised because of the greater vulnerability of unaccompanied minors. There is a contradiction in terms: if I were to apply this rule, I would not know what Parliament wanted to say. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is useful for each of you to reflect: one thing is the first paragraph, on which we all agree, which contains a strong statement of principle on equal rights and on the recognition of the same position as the Italian child. In the second paragraph, on the other hand, it seems that we have almost regretted the recognition of all the rights of protection that belong to the Italian child, saying that they are due on the basis of the greatest vulnerability. I didn't understand why there's this prediction, since we've recognised equal rights. Do you realize that the second paragraph is completely contradictory to the first paragraph? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u28	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,102, tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti, identical to amendment 1,103, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We note that Senator Sposetti was unable to express his vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u29	Madam President, I should also like to express my dismay at a position of opposition already expressed in advance by the Government and which will be expressed by the rapporteur during the examination of the various articles. In fact, I must point out that we are, as always, faced with the usual flag measure. It was decided, because the thing moves and arouses the penalty of all, to adopt a law that includes provisions on measures for the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors. When the examination of the measure began, the rapporteur first stressed the need to make changes, because the text did not turn and would have problems at the stage of its application. The same position has also been expressed by the Government with respect to other details, which we can define as technical. In fact, it may be for or against politically, but a law must be written in any case as God commands. At some point, however, this amending initiative was blocked by the desire to vote on the text approved by the House of Deputies, however, so that the measure could become law and the rapporteur announced the possibility of withdrawing all its amendments, in order to allow for the rapid adoption of the measure. As always, however, the devil makes pots, but not lids, and in the Budget Committee, at the initiative of the State Accounting Office, it was represented that the measure - and not the amendments - already hesitated by the House of Deputies, was not covered in at least four passages. At this point, common sense would have advised, given that four points have to be amended, because there are mandatory conditions imposed by the Budget Commission, to introduce also the changes that Senator Mazzoni and the Undersecretary had announced. It seemed the most normal and sensible solution. But no, since we have to approve it, we only take the modified parts (or parts of which the Budget Commission requires modification) and everything else is not touched upon. Can you explain to me the reason for this attitude? President Tonini, I would also like to understand and wonder whether the House of Deputies should report to a State Accountant other than the one that reports to the Senate, because from the House of Deputies comes a text without a report and here, suddenly, it is discovered that the measure is not covered. Maybe someone wants to run a flag. However, as I said already in the Commission, if we look at the extent of the coverage of the measure (a little more than EUR 950,000), we realize that this is not enough even to pay for the fabric of that flag. If we want to do something serious, given that the title of the measure refers to'minor', I call for a vote in favour of Amendment 2,101 because, as Senator Malan said, most people claim to be seventeen years old. The amendment stipulates that the age of less than 18 must be established. In fact, there are medical and radiological examinations in order to ascertain the year of birth of a person, so as not to make us cheat by those who propose themselves as seventeen and instead come only to eat on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u30	Madam President, as an alternative to what Mr Calderoli has just proposed (whose amendment rewrites the whole of Article 2 in a sensible way), we have proposed a smaller correction, but it has an important weight. Amendment 2102 proposes that the protection provided for by the measure should apply for as long as the child is deprived of care and representation by parents or other adults. There is the problem of whether the person is really a minor, but the amendment presented by President Calderoli has been put forward on this subject. We're dealing with another fact. There is one issue that is not very clear. Let's assume that a person arrives in Italy who declares - perhaps so - seventeen years of age. It appears from the structure of the text under consideration that even in one, two or three years' time the person will enjoy the expected benefits because he has arrived in time. As we said before, due to a strange statistical anomaly, in most cases they are declared seventeen years of age. Curiously, there are more seventeen years old than people between zero and fourteen years old. That's weird. In the reports of the recovery of the boats we read that often, during the crossing, a child is born. On all boats are loaded adult males, or apparently such, because a male of fifteen, sixteen or seventeen years is substantially adult from the point of view of physical structure. Strangely, however, a child is often born, because the traffickers, with cynicism, load on the boats, evidently against their will, women on the point of giving birth, so that they can provide the media with the photo of the child born on the boat. This thing is moving everyone, but we must understand that these women, no matter how difficult they live in their countries (for example, in Libya), are better there than on a boat that is unsuitable for navigation, overcrowded and without the shadow of medical assistance. Well, maybe we should direct our feelings against the criminals who perpetuate these things. Everyone else is 17. Then, at least we should have the protection to say that these people benefit greatly from the benefits provided by this law as long as they are underage and as long as they are not accompanied. In fact, it gets to the point where parents and children arrive - more likely, since they are almost always males, father and son - who tell the border not to know each other. The son says he is alone but, once acquired the benefits, comes out the father who says he has found his son and he sees a moving scene as in a comedy of Terenzio, after which also the father takes advantage of the benefits as father of an unaccompanied minor who therefore has the same benefits as an unaccompanied Italian. It's basically a sort of pre-citizenship. We then ask that limits be set because we are happy with these lucky findings, which sometimes are the epilogue of dramatic events, but sometimes they are simple, small and very easy tricks allowed by the law. Well, let us ensure that, when they are cheats, at least they are not rewarded but are treated as such and that at least they are not considered valid for the purposes of our law. It seems, however, that the orientation of the parliamentary majority and of the 5 Star Movement, which until now has voted in total adherence to the opinions given by the Government, is different. I think that the orientation of Italian citizens is absolutely in favour of children in danger of life but is also very opposed to those who come to our country by cheating and exploiting the pain and danger suffered by real minors.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u31	Mr President, first of all, I wanted to ask you for the courtesy of solving a problem: I feel terrible about it. I don't know if it's just my problem, maybe related to my age, or a volume problem, but I'm having a hard time distinguishing what he's saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u32	I'm begging the technicians to sort this out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u33	Don't throw yourself down, Senator Volpi. I know you've just turned your years and we wish you well for that. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Thank you, President. I would now like to explain the whole of our amendments with which we have tried to resolve certain situations created by this article, based on the need to ascertain the request, the age and the impossibility of reunion. I should also like to say that, frankly, I never expected to have to fight against such a measure in order to be able to say that this branch of Parliament should also be able to express itself in accordance with some suggestions made by the rapporteur in fixing and improving this law. I also find it hard to understand why there was this overall stop when, in any case, some amendments are accepted and then the measure will return to the House. And we cannot improve the law; it seems that there is almost a will to prevent the Senate from intervening on this measure. I am sorry that some of my colleagues, although certain feelings are different, are voting against the amendments, but I would like to remind you that this measure will still go back to the House and if there is a chance to improve it we certainly do not delay the time to do so by adopting some amendments. Having said that, we are asking - as President Calderoli has already made clear - to be sure that they are minors. What does it cost to include in the law in our examination that they should be subjects under the age of 18? It doesn't seem to change the law. This is simply a point of order, otherwise speculation will arise. Secondly, international organizations do not say that they take everything that comes. In Europe itself, it is said to favour the most reunions, that is to do serious research compared to the young people who arrive to see if there is the possibility of reuniting them with their families in the countries of origin. Why, then, do we not want to accept amendments which seek only to ensure that these children have had every opportunity to be reunited with their families? Why don't we want to accept that? Sounds like common sense to us. Moreover, the rapporteur's amendments to Article 2 were also aimed at repositioning certain rules. I am also addressing my colleagues in the majority: we are discussing a measure that speaks of rights; then, each of us can have nuances, it can also have different political positions, but why not improve it? I find it hard to understand: why not improve it? Mr. Undersecretary, I would have understood if you had put your trust. In that case, the measure would be armored and nothing could be done. Instead, we have a text that returns to the House, with impositions "taken around"; a bill without funds: 900,000 euros to support all the infrastructure. Some of Mr Serra's agendas deal with a number of issues, and then we will talk about them. You said that earlier, Mr. Undersecretary. She spoke... (Senator Manconi sits at the government desks.) President Manconi, I'm speaking. Let me speak to the Undersecretary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Undersecretary, please follow the debate. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Did you or did you not talk about local authorities and the burden on local authorities? Madam President, I demand that the Government be in a position to listen. After that, it can also pretend, but that it is interrupted by colleagues while talking about an opposition colleague, it is rude. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, I've already called the government back. I also ask Senator Manconi to allow the Undersecretary to watch the debate. Mr Manconi (PD). I didn't say a word! VOLPI (LN-Aut). First he talked about local authorities; there are times when we will have to and we will be able to resolve the situation of local authorities. We will talk about this when we discuss Mr Serra's agenda. My specific question is: why don't we try to solve these problems? There are specific amendments. We are not telling you to approve them all, because it is clear that some are politicians but, as Mr Calderoli said earlier, some technical amendments make it clear: let us approve them, let us do it together. Then, however, I will say that I do not like the measure, but at least we will have solved some misunderstandings together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u36	RUTA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the previous speeches and I do not deny that, probably, an improved rewriting of the text, especially from the point of view of legislative technique, could have been done. However, by carefully reading Article 1 (first two paragraphs) and following Article 2, while confirming that one could also write better - I agree - it seems to me that logical consecutiveity exists. I would like to explain why and also say something about the substance of the speeches. It is said that the provisions of this bill apply to unaccompanied foreign minors because of their condition of greater vulnerability and that unaccompanied foreign minors are entitled to rights, like all other Italian and European minors. Now, it is true that the second subparagraph specifies that these provisions apply to unaccompanied foreign minors........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is said to specify that they must be no later than eighteen years old, but in the Italian legal order the word "minor" means this, so it is already specified. However, Article 2 specifies that it applies to minors who are, however, deprived of assistance or representation by their parents or other adults legally responsible for them in accordance with the laws in force in the Italian law; that is, it specifies that they are not any minor, but those who are in those conditions. In the previous speeches it has been said that in some cases it is not easy to distinguish the age of these children; it is clear, however, that they must always be abandoned. I am told that someone may do so on purpose to enter Italy. It's possible, I don't exclude it. However, by voting on this draft law we accept the idea that we can take that risk, if anything by increasing controls, but with the possibility that those minors will not enter Italy underground. To those who have preceded me I say that it will not be an amendment that will block the flow of minors coming to Europe from the rest of the world; it will not be something that has decided Trump to avoid illegality in the world. The migratory flows will be there and 99 percent are the result of despair. Who gets on a boat if he's okay at home? [[Applause from Senators Serra and Puppato]] Who gets on the road risking dying, if not because he's desperate? Compared to such an adventure, how can we imagine being able to block us because there is a risk that 10 percent of those children will do so in a cunning or cynical way? Aren't those who put them on boats to be prosecuted? I know that there is a risk, but it must be taken if lives are saved and it cannot be taken from the point of view of the legal order because in the balance you have to choose what weighs the most. Another consideration must then be given to the funds, which are said to be few. Very well, this is an objection that I share, because it is not that we qualify little. If a minor enters Italy and we accompany him, we are doing a census work: we do not leave him in hiding, we are doing a census of that minor, we know where he goes. However, this happens if we have the funds, otherwise it enters and then disappears even in the centres of first reception and that is precisely where this must not happen. It is therefore there that more resources and funding are needed, so that those minors (who are eighteen years old and one day old) enter, are recorded ensuring security and a possible path, human, dignified, not for delinquency, but to live in a dignified way. Well, in that case the objection is well founded. If an amendment is to be adopted, it is what says that much more money is needed. In fact, it will not be the amendment of Tizio, Caio or Sempronio to block the illegality or migratory flows in the world, because despair is wide and we must respond with the energy, strength and intelligence to understand that it is exactly opposite the path to be taken to guarantee security to us and dignity to those who come, desperate just as we went desperate in the world. We went to die in the mines of the world and few monuments in the world indicate the mines in which the underage Italians died. We must know that this is the history of human civilization that we must take a step forward and not a step backwards. I say to the government, if anything, that we allocate more funds to finally approve the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mussini and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u39	Mr Mazzoni, rapporteur. Madam President, I would just like to make one point because it has been said in several parts, even in the last speech, that this would be a flag measure, because the budget would be less than one million euros. In this respect, it is clear that the overall budget of Chapter 2352,.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Finally, with regard to the costs associated with the reception of minors in the SPRAR, the cost of enlargement, amounting to EUR 43,493,000, will be borne under the resources available from the National Fund for Asylum Policies and Services. So, the funds are there, and I wanted to stress that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u40	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u41	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u42	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u43	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u46	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I cannot help but take the floor after the speeches by Senator Ruta and the rapporteur. I want to say to the rapporteur: excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta. It can take all the funds of the various laws of stability in the world, but there is a technical report accompanying this law that says that what is allocated is less than one million euros. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On everything else we can have all the chatter we want, but you can't sell the bear's skin when the bear is around the woods. Senator Ruta, with amendments 2,100 and 2,101 I do not intend to specify that the child is under 18, because I believe that we have all arrived at this. The intention is to add the words "less than eighteen years old" because, as far as I am concerned, one may also declare that he is seventeen years old, but until he has been subjected to an X-ray of his wrist, I am also free not to believe him. Alongside this there is the fact that this measure introduces the prohibition of the refusal of a child. But the minor is always such because he declares it and is in a state of abandonment because he is not accompanied by any of his parents, but with what instrument (since they are not expected) I can verify that what he is declaring the child is true and instead do not use this way to come to Italy for other reasons? Do we realize that there is not even a request for refugee status here? We grant the unaccompanied minor the same status as the applicant who brought home refugee status. Then, the minor who comes from persecuted areas receives the same treatment as those who, probably for economic reasons and not always shared, come from other areas of the country. So we placed these kids, as long as minors (false or true doesn't matter), all at the same level. The resources are absolutely inadequate, although I do not agree with the measure. What makes me absolutely angry is that the safeguard rule has also been introduced so that, where resources are not sufficient, they go to put local authorities and municipalities. And no, it's too convenient (I'd like to say a bad expression) to go and do something with other people's, but that's what it says in here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u47	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u50	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Ruta that, if you like, I too would like to speak about the most dramatic aspect of migration from the sociological point of view. I share a lot of what you said, Senator, because the stories of our grandparents and dads are very often the same, but I think that, just for what we've been through, we should make good laws here. I would also like to say that a large part of what is written in the 'Definition' referred to in Article 2 I call it a flag. Do you know why, Mr. Undersecretary? Because you know better than I do that what is written in the "Defination" is already everything in constitutional jurisprudence. We have also discussed these matters in greater depth with regard to other issues which your majority, i.e. the ius soli, are already covered by constitutional jurisprudence - if you would like to say so by a surveyor - so you do not come here to tell us that everything is necessary. We will support and vote in favour of amendment 2.101. I believe that our passage is to put order, and President Calderoli is right: you can also come here with a list of long numbers like the famous advertising roll on television, but what is written in the law and what you of the Government have demanded to have in the measure is 900,000 euros. So please be at least intellectually honest and tell us: We want to do this, there's no money, we don't care, but we want to plant the flag on this. Otherwise the Italians, those who sent you home on December 4 (even if you are still here), at some point they feel teased. There are concerns. Mr Ruta, believe me, I mentioned them in the general debate: 236 statements by people, who fortunately managed to maintain their relationship with the system, said that they had been contacted by international terrorism before they left. As for the dramatic figure of the fund we are talking about, I am not quoting it. The figures have come out today: 46 percent more from this year. We realize that we make fun of ourselves (so far out of here many already think well of us!) But the kids, and every one of those who come without right will have taken away a place for those who really need it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u53	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this amendment, because it specifies what is the lower age, which must be established, even with the clause contained in additional articles of this draft law, in which it is said that in any case, in doubt, the subject is considered to be a minor. That would be something already. But the fact is that in this draft law there are not even the instruments to raise this doubt and above all there is no one who has the responsibility to put this doubt, at least in the obvious cases. In the forms in which the pensioner from time to time has to self-identify his or her life, in order to avoid the known scams that occurred in some cases of elderly people whose death is kept hidden by family members in order to continue to receive the pension, we remember the penalties in which he or she incurs in case of false declaration. In other words, if you're dead and you claim to be alive, then we punish you: something almost funny. In the measure under consideration, however, there is no such thing: they merely state it; there is no sanction, because there is no attempt to establish age anywhere. Moreover, it also says - we will come to the examination of the text - that, at the simple request of these people, we cannot even talk to the diplomatic authorities of the country from which these people come or say they come. Therefore, if one claims to be from Tunisia, a country with which there are good diplomatic and consular relations, one could say: since you said that you are called in this way and that you are from that country, let's go and verify it; but you can't because the subject has fears. In fact, in the norm it is written that, in all cases where they say they are afraid of retaliation or of the dangers to their safety if the authorities of their country are informed, they should not be informed. Therefore, we do not even have the opportunity to inform ourselves to those who honestly say they come from the country from which they actually come. An Italian caught without documents is sanctioned, fined and subjected to all sorts of harassment, the foreigner is opened the doors of our country, given assistance and any other facilitation. It is first transported to our country because it has to make about a cent of the route with the boat of the hullists. 99 percent of the route is secured by the ships of our Navy, Coast Guard or other obvious non-profit organizations. The minimum would be to ask them what is asked of any Italian and, that is, to ascertain and certify. Try to get anything given by the State without having certifications, documents or double certifications. The Auto Certification Act was passed in 1968, but still many offices do not accept it. There's no problem here. If one clearly demonstrates thirty-five years and claims to be seventeen, he comes to Italy, is maintained and will be able to go to school at the expense of the Italian taxpayer. For the school the resources are always the same because, as has been said, the measure provides for a sum, but this is too small and the expenses will be much higher. All other expenses will be to the detriment of the efficiency of all other services of our country for both Italians and foreigners. How many cases does each of us know very well, because perhaps he was asked for an impossible intervention, of decent foreigners, with all the cards in order and with the regular work in their country who want to come to Italy to visit their relative and who is denied a tourist visa? We know that very well. Thousands of people coming to bring money to our country are denied tourist visas. We know that very well; everyone knows it and, in particular, the Government. Why do they have to spend money on flying? They take a boat a bit less broken than the others, so they do not risk their lives as these poor people who come to Italy, make a few kilometers, with a few liters of diesel (just a few), arrive close, call the NGOs, if they haven't already called them before, as usually happens, and arrive in Italy without any problem and at the expense of the Italian State. Those who, on the other hand, want to come to Italy regularly paying to visit their relatives regularly immigrants are rejected the visa. Well, there are foolish ideological competitions among the former members of the majority party, who want to be more left-wing than the left-wing left, but these things are paid to them by the Italians and the Municipalities. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u56	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I do not speak to reply to the speeches made because it is difficult to respond calmly, but to make sense and bring the House back to the reality of this rule, which is necessary. Many times we invoke rules to define terms, give meaning and value to legislation. In this case it is even more necessary to define unaccompanied minors for more than one reason. The first is that unaccompanied minors are referred to in a 2001 European directive. In Italy it is referred to in legislative decrees that have also given a value and meaning in part contrasting. In fact, one directive talks about minors seeking asylum, while another directive talks about minors who have not applied for asylum. With this rule it is clear from this point of view, because we assume the principle that a minor, as such, must be accepted; it is obviously the positive aspect of a principle expressed in negative, that is, the impossibility of refusal. That's the value we're taking on. When, in a few days' time, the House will ratify the few changes that have been adopted, this legislation will be at the forefront at European level. There is, in fact, a directive that has been going on for years and we are lagging behind the problem of unaccompanied minors. Therefore, continuing to discuss it in this way seems to me to be completely out of place. It also seems to me that it is inappropriate for colleagues to continue to draw attention to the presumed or actual age of the child when the assessment of the child is regulated in this legislation. We're not talking about a rule that anyone can get to the raid. Gentlemen, it is not enough to move before a dead child on a beach: I am impressed by the people who say they have feelings in front of cases when they do not have feelings it would be inhumane and then, when it comes to avoiding these situations, they back out. Sure, we're talking about minors. If there is a suspicion that the child is not such, the procedure laid down in the following article shall apply. I would like to add another thought. How can we say that when the sums available are exhausted, the weight of the reception will weigh on the municipalities? But at present it is precisely so: minors are supported by the municipalities, for that little time they are entrusted with. The legislation, therefore, from this point of view, is highly innovative, because the State assumes responsibilities, of course by making available resources, which as such are quantified within the limits of what we have read in this measure. I understand that we can have ideological positions on this subject and that it is a sensitive subject, but a debate is also done on the basis of truth. We cannot, for example, challenge this definition, which is absolutely necessary, otherwise, as Italian legislators, we would identify with the same term two different disciplines, which would conflict with the fact that we are introducing, that is that minors are all equal: whatever the cause, the reason why they are on Italian territory, are subject to the protection we are talking about. We are also talking about the Italian minors, who would not have the same protection. But we're talking protection! Imagine a minor "energumeno," an example that colleagues refer to to arouse ancient and never-suffering fears: whether an Italian or a foreigner, in front of Italian law will have the same treatment. When we talk about vulnerability and reception, we talk about a particular phase. It is clear that when a child becomes appaled as a criminal the relevant legal procedures apply, but this applies to Italians and applies to foreigners. In this case we are talking about protection, that is, about a vulnerable person who is on our territory and who we assume as a recipient of rights as well as duties. That's the limit. The definitions serve to limit; the rest are ancestral fears that we should abandon, because Italy is a civil country and Italian society is sometimes far ahead of this Parliament. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u59	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, I hear statements that - I want it to remain in the Senate Reports - do not go unnoticed about the underlying problem we are dealing with. As is well known (there are written evidence of this), there are about 200 million Africans who, over the next ten years, would like to come to Europe: 200 million who have this aspiration. Not only international agencies, but also those who work in the field, such as, for example, missionaries, warn us that from African countries they do not emigrate laborers and people without hope, as unfortunately and unfortunately happened once from Italy (from Italy they did not leave the merchant or craftsman who had an occupation, that is the petty bourgeoisie): instead, from Africa, they leave those who manage to put together 3,000-4,000 euros (that in Africa are a fortune), the more enterprising, the younger, the more active. So those companies are impoverished just about that that should be the ruling class and the engine of their development. These come to seek luck in the West, increasingly impoverishing the social fabric of those countries, where there is no more that class of people than for education, rank, capacity and enterprise would be indispensable to remove a billion people from poverty levels (in Africa we are talking about a billion people). At the time we give a message to the whole world and also to Africa, that message should then have been clear. The abandoned children are abandoned children, while the 17-year-old, 18-year-old, 19-year-old or 20-year-old is not an abandoned child, but he is a person with 3,000 euros in his pocket, who is such an age that in all countries of the world he should be a military or at any rate he is at the age when he is most able to undertake. It is hard to think that a 17 - year - old can say that he is an abandoned person. With these limits and a potential of 200 million people, the question then is: how long can our system last? Up to a million, two million, three million, four million people? And how much can Africa develop if the most enterprising and capable people, instead of working together for the economic, social and political development of their country, are left in Europe? I believe that this is a legitimate question that the Senate should ask itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u63	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I will be apologised to former PD colleagues if I am a little ancestral, but what do you want, Mr Lo Moro, happens. I believe that there is a very controversial aspect: it seems that we cannot debate, because, if anyone says something contrary to your reasoning, he is racist or xenophobic; we all have him. We have represented situations but you are not interested in them. But I ask you a courtesy: since there is the Minister for relations with Parliament - I say this with sympathy - then put your trust, because you do not care so much about the reasoning we do; whether they are beautiful or ugly, you are not interested. Put your trust, at least vote for it, you're all happy and you've fixed the situation. Link Lo Moro, you've known me for eight years; if you want, I'll start to do what the controversy does and answer everything (I answer them in a manner that is obviously polite, as you always are). But tell us, because if you want to do it, you have the tool. The Minister gets up, goes to the Council of Ministers, gets his deleghina, comes here and says: Lords of the minority, as with all the other 54 times, we absolutely don't give a damn what you say. And put on your beautiful fiducina. But please and please, do not come and teach us, because look at the dead, those who counted last week (more than 5,000), we do not have them on our consciences, but you have them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u64	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u67	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would actually have liked to have spoken about the previous amendment, in order to reiterate that the lack of family members should at least be established without the mere declaration being sufficient. As I said before, once a minor has obtained the privileged status of unaccompanied minor, which entails the same rights as an Italian minor, then five minutes later he could miraculously meet his family members and be able to extend these benefits to them as well. So, at least make sure that there is no such thing as a lack. This is true of the previous amendment. On this amendment, on 2.104, I wonder whether it is possible that there are a thousand circumstances. Here minors must even be unfamiliar. But then if, hypothetically, an entire school decides to come to Italy, it is enough that it does not have the documents to be accepted, but not touristically. Since the students are, of course, all deprived of their parents, as on a school trip, then we welcome them all. But it is not even a matter of common sense, but of making this text decent in view of the fact that, unfortunately, it will probably become the law of the State, since it continues to receive the support of the majority and the 5 Star Movement. At least, then, that it is specified that this child should be deprived of family members or other adults responsible for him. That would seem to me to be the least. We would also like to have this protection for our children. We would not want a child of ours to go on a trip to some country, where he is not with his parents but only with his teachers, and lose his passport, to become a refugee in that country. We must have a minimum of seriousness. We are writing a law, it is not a rally, it is not one of the television appearances of the former President of the Council where it is already known that nothing is true. This is a law that will then have to be enforced. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u68	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.104, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u71	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to say that, with the rapporteur and with the Government, I want to see whether the amendment can be changed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u74	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I agree with Senator Calderoli, but I wanted to say that while the House, in support of his request, deals with children in the abstract, because it is a rule that will affect those who arrive, I have dealt with children in concrete terms. I want to report to the Assembly, supporting Senator Calderoli's request and dealing with minors, that a few meters from the entrance of the Senate from this morning the Italy 1 television station of Mediaset (and so I know what I say), is using a child of about eight or ten years, authorized by parents - wretched - who ask questions with an iPad in hand. This child is used by the transmission "Le Iene" as if she were taught, to ask (it happened to various parliamentarians) how many parliamentarians or the remote past of the verb love, in order to demonstrate the ignorance of us all as a political class. This is usually the case, those of us who want to respond and those who do not want do not respond, but it is the first time that a minor is used, a few meters from here, authorized by the parents. It is an absolute shame on the part of Mediaset and Italia 1! [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (Ncd-CpE), Mixed, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, ALA-SCLP, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI), LN-Aut and CoR.]] Children must either go to school or be with their parents! Not playing ten years with the iPad! It sucks!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u75	We'll check if you're an abandoned minor, Senator Gasparri. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the request for the agenda for amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u76	Madam President, my opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u77	Madam President, I think there is a misunderstanding. The amendment could not be accepted as a motion by the Government... Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). As an order of business! MANTION, State Secretary for the Interior. ... and cannot be accepted as an agenda either. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Senator Calderoli, you have called me into question several times; it cannot be accepted as an agenda for the same reasons why the Government opposed the amendment of Article 2. The proposed amendment is a useless verse, a superfluous verse and a contradictory verse with our system: not with what I have established, but with what this Parliament has established. This amendment is also superfluous because, if the rule is destined to become law, it will operate within the Italian legal order, where the adult means the person who has reached the age of eighteen years. There is no need to make any specification, because there is already a civil code that establishes who are the adult and who are the underage. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). That is not the case: this is Amendment 2,105! MANTION, State Secretary for the Interior. Excuse me, Senator Malan, I'm asking you to let me finish the surgery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, have the government representative conclude. MANTION, State Secretary for the Interior. It is also misleading, because it refers to an age already established, which is responsible for verifying Article 5 of the same legislative text. Article 2 is a definitional rule, which refers to those who are found to be minor in accordance with Article 5 and there is no need for any specification. Finally, it is a contradictory rule, because the distinction between unaccompanied minors applying for asylum and unaccompanied minors who are not applying for asylum has already passed it by Parliament, in the financial law of 2015. You will remember that there were two different competences: one of the Ministry of the Interior, namely the National Commission for the right of asylum, for minors asylum seekers, and one of the Ministry of Welfare for unaccompanied minors not asylum seekers. You considered that the position to protect was that of the minor age and because of this you exceeded that dichotomy and established a single competence in charge of the Ministry of the Interior, with reference to unaccompanied minors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Undersecretary, are we referring to Amendment 2,105? MANTION, State Secretary for the Interior. Yes, Madam President, this proposal is precisely a reflection of the changes required in Article 2. For these same reasons it cannot be accepted in any way, because the procedures referred to are already provided for in our legal system. When the child has been identified on the basis of Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 142 of 2015, as amended by Article 5, and it turns out that he has parents resident in other states, one can already redirect to his parents, as the draft law under consideration provides: we have said so in premise, because family reunification is the first objective of the bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u78	I would ask the rapporteur whether, in the light of these considerations, he intends to revise his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u79	Madam President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u82	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, if I may ask for an amendment to be changed to the agenda, it is an account, but it is not an explanation of vote. I would like to address the Government: Mr Undersecretary, you have made a warm and heartfelt speech, thinking that the amendment, as the Presidency rightly pointed out, was 2,101. However, in Amendment 2.105, in our examination, there is nothing related to age, so you have not even read it. I have asked for an amendment calling for all possibilities for the reunion of the child to be transformed into an agenda. If the government does not consider it acceptable to indicate that, for our part, there must be at least one attempt to achieve it, then this is a law of persecution of unaccompanied minors: it is the trafficking of children! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u83	Mr. Undersecretary, do you confirm your assessment? MANTION, State Secretary for the Interior. Yes, I confirm. It's already planned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur has returned to the House. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.105, presented by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u86	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, I would like to say to Senator Malan and other speakers that their anxieties will be fully met by the so-called Minniti Decree. In a while - excuse the joke - you will have every chance to do it again. I would like to draw the House's attention to what we are voting on exactly. In Article 2, we give the exact definition of the unaccompanied alien minor and this is fundamental. We have heard a lot of things that - I have to say very honestly - seem to be dictated only by ideological fury (I would like to send it back to you) and not by the exact content of the norm, also because - the Undersecretary has said - all the procedures envisaged for the attempt to identify children are contained in Article 5; in Article 2 we are simply giving the right definition and for this we will vote in favour of it. I would like to dwell quickly on the crudeness, unfortunately, of reality. We have had representations of minors and even pregnant women who are brought up on boats so that they give birth during the crossing. The reality before us is dramatic. We are dramatically late in passing the bill. All the associations - starting from Save the Children - have long been asking to finally reach the approval of the measure, because while we speak the children arrive and then disappear, becoming prey to organized crime. As I said last week in the general debate, we must guarantee all possible protection and protection for children, girls and children who are really at risk and who often - alas - arrive in the area of trafficking and are channelled into our territory. There is an absolute need not to do caricatures of what we are approving and to think seriously, because this is the issue that we have been facing for a long time now. The data is dramatic. Just think that during the first two months of this year the arrivals of unaccompanied minors increased by 50% compared to the previous year. We can't keep telling each other the fairy tales, claiming that with these rules, who knows what we're doing. The problem is a case of another and I would like to propose it strongly here: as we will see more generally when we examine the so-called Minniti decree, in this country there is no legal channel for entry. It is therefore useless that we continue to make these caricatures. The only legal channel - I tell Senator Malan that should know him well - is the humanitarian corridor, used yesterday by Syrian refugees, which was activated by the Waldensian Table, the Evangelical Churches and the Community of Sant'Egidio. This is, at the moment, the only legal channel present in our country and I believe that we should all reflect on the fact that it is promoted voluntarily by the Church, the Evangelical Churches and the Waldensian Table. We, on the other hand, continue to regulate illegality, without finding a channel of legal entry, especially in dramatic cases such as those concerning refugees and those fleeing from the wars and tragedies that occur in various parts of the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u89	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this time I shall be brief. I was grounded in the Secretary's answer because he said no to something that is extremely simple. I always ask my colleagues to shut me up if I argue. At this moment I am not making controversy: the agenda G2.105 committed the Government to apply the legislation provided after verifying whether the children have relatives in some other European country and there is the possibility of a reunion. What did you tell us, Mr. Undersecretary? You said no to something that is written in European acts. The agenda simply proposed to apply the law and the protections it provides after having properly checked that the persons involved do not have relatives in Germany, Denmark or their country because, in that case, we should facilitate the reunion. I think we are on the paradox because not only do we not want to talk about the problem but you do not care about it. I am amazed at this: I am amazed and shocked and I tell my fellow Members who have sensitivity on these issues. Forgive me, rapporteur, once again, given all the esteem I have for you, to escape from these figures, because you, who are an intelligent and capable person, had understood perfectly what the amendment that has been transformed into an agenda said. Please, I say this in friendship (you know that I have friendship and esteem for you): let us avoid it because it is not possible to treat Parliament in this way. You represent the Commission and therefore your colleagues in the majority and opposition. His authoritative, capable and intelligent opinion is much more valuable than that of a Undersecretary who does not know what he is talking about. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u92	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will not vote in favour of this article for which common sense amendments were proposed to make it vaguely compatible with reality. I would like to mention the intervention of Senator Lo Moro, who, with calmness, simplicity and sincerity, has clearly said that this law puts us at the forefront of Europe. In other words, no country in Europe gives these total, indiscriminate - and therefore unreasonable - guarantees to anyone who enters the territory. I don't know if the Italians are so happy to be at the forefront. Perhaps they would be content to be in the average, to be among those countries, that is, all except Italy, that do not go to take immigrants a few kilometers from the Libyan coast and then bring them to their territory, keep them and give them refugee status, as long as they declare themselves to be minors. Well, an avant-garde of this kind really doesn't interest us. We would like to be at the forefront of the protection of human rights in general, we would like to be the vanguard in protecting our citizens, in the quality of schools, in the quality of health. But no: we burden our schools and our health - which already have all their problems - and the municipalities with burdens due to the mass of people who come to Italy saying that they are, or even being, seventeen years old. Our 17-year-olds will have a nice statement that they are this age but they will not spend 2,200 euros a month on them, as they do on any foreigner who comes to Italy and declares himself underage.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u93	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u94	Madam President, even in the case of Article 3 we are proposing some amendments to try to make sense of an ideological text which presupposes that everyone is honest, sincere and well-intentioned. I announce a bad news: if that were the case, there would be no need for laws, neither judges, nor governments, because, automatically, if everyone were like that, in Italy as abroad, there would be no need for anything: neither our laws, nor anything else. It is precisely because there are people who are not always honest, sincere, perfect and peaceful, that we must set some limits. Among those who have come to Italy as unaccompanied minors there are found guilty of 32 voluntary murders only in 2015: these are probably not people who came to Italy well-intentioned; I think it would have been better if they had returned to their countries, even if they were really sixteen or seventeen years old. Then there were 54 attempted murders, which did not go well but which probably left their mark on the victims of these attempts; 1,560 voluntary personal injuries committed by underage foreigners; 10,000 crimes against the heritage and public safety and 268 sexual violence perpetrated by foreign children. I would say then, I would say that if by chance we did not get there - the speech also applies to Italians, who are not all law-abiding and someone perhaps needs some limit - we have a specific statistics concerning minor foreigners in Italy. In this case, however, the assumption is that they are all saints, children in the immediate danger of life. Unfortunately, this also happens and these children must be absolutely rescued, helped, accepted; but it is not acceptable that, because of these children who deserve assistance and who deserve at least part of the forecasts - probably all - of this bill, we take the pretext to extend these prerogatives to all. We therefore propose that the part in which it is said that under no circumstances, under any circumstances, does anyone want to say anything, should be removed from the border of unaccompanied foreign minors. Instead, we propose that, for example, if these children have violent behavior and make threats or claim the intention to commit crimes in Italy, they can kindly be rejected, even if they have - or claim to be - seventeen years old; also here, except in their best interests, their reliance on family members. Here we have a paradoxical case: a minor arrives at the border, of which the parents can be identified, but we cannot reject it; We have to keep it, then do all the paperwork, do some red tape. This is how we create traumatic situations out of nowhere: the child is put into a company that is probably not wonderful just because he is an unaccompanied minor stranger. Ours are normal propositions of common sense. Moreover, in relation to exceptional cases of refusal, the measure may be adopted, not immediately, provided that the same does not involve a risk of serious harm to the child. What does risk mean? At least we have proposed to specify that this is a specific and concrete risk, why else what is the risk? I walk out of the house, I go down the street, and I risk getting hit by a car. Maybe, even if I'm on the sidewalk there's a risk; you can't say that the risk is zero. If I'm at home, the risk is zero; I may have other problems, but don't take the risk of getting hit by a car. Now, the countries of origin are certainly less ordained than ours, they have indices of mortality, of road accidents, of crime than ours and it is not strange that there is a high percentage of crime even among those who come to Italy; it is unreasonable not to think of it than of a country where there is a much higher crime rate than in Italy (some could also think of it; the data quoted show that it is not true). Therefore, for those who come from a country where there is twice the murders of Italy - which, moreover, forty years or sixty years ago had much more than twice as many murders today - the risk exists, and it stands in Italy. Are you kidding me? We write the law with common sense, having a sense of reality, because otherwise reality will be felt very heavy and charged to the citizens who will be the victim of it. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u95	Madam President, the ban on refusal has an ideological meaning. I would like to ask the Minister, who is well aware of this matter, if at this moment you can reject a minor: is there any rule that allows a minor to be rejected today? There is an obvious and obvious ideological meaning. I would, however, like to say that at this stage of explanation of the amendments I would like to prepare the Undersecretary, since we have tabled Amendment 3.0.100. If you want me to read it, or you can read it calmly before we get to vote on it. The amendment proposes to include in article 18, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 142 of 2015 after the words: For the assessment of the best interests of the child, the following shall be implemented by means of procedures provided for in specific guidelines adopted by the Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, after consulting the relevant parliamentary committees. Is that okay or is this nonsense too? We therefore refer to guidelines with the ministries concerned, and perhaps it could be expected, as we have done, that they will receive at least one opinion from the relevant Commissions. Is it so abering, Mr. Rapporteur? He wants to give us the satisfaction of being denied another time by the government, perhaps saying that it is a normal proposal, I do not say intelligent because we do not feel appropriate to your comparison. Only you, in fact, can fail all laws by the Constitutional Court. If, however, you would consider our proposal, we would be happy to do so. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u96	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u97	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u98	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 2583 and 1295 president. I put to the vote Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u102	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I understand that there is some disinterest in this House and it seems that the measure should go as it is, but I would like to understand the reasons for opposition to this amendment. 18.26 (Follow PALMA). What does Amendment 3.105 say? Article 3 of the measure provides that no minor may be rejected at the border, in no case: we agree. But if, as Amendment 3,105 specifies, the minor over 14 years of age, in contact with the police authority at the border, says that he wants to commit crimes in Italy, he maintains a violent attitude, that is to say he threatens, in this only and only case, in which the subject for his behaviour appears dangerous, is it possible to reject him at the border? You see, Senator Ruta, we are also available - as you said in your speech - to take the risk that this law entails from the point of view of the possibility of the entry of minors who are not minors or anything else, but we are not really willing to take the risk that such a general and ill-made law allows a subject, even a minor, but that in a clear and obvious appalese way his will to commit crimes, or even commit them at the time of contact with the police authority, to enter this country and that it cannot be rejected. I believe that the proposal is reasonable and I say something else to the whole House: you think that Amendment 3.105 is fundamentally not in line with the explanation given in the same provision, Article 1 (2) when it is said that all the provisions of the provision apply to unaccompanied minors for a reason, i.e. because theirs is a condition of greater vulnerability. Basically a general discourse is made: unaccompanied minors are in more vulnerable conditions, so that the provisions of this law apply. And when that minor at the border threatens, uses violent behavior and manifests his intention to commit crimes, is he really in a more vulnerable position, or is he an exception to the category of belonging on which the justification of the law rests? Therefore, I believe that, without touching at all the general arrangement of the measure, accepting the amendment of Senator Malan and Senator Rizzotti, who agrees that no minor can be rejected at the border, unless he is more than fourteen years old, conducts violent behaviour, threatens or manifests the idea of committing crimes in Italy, would be a decision of common sense that does not touch at all the measure and that, Senator Ruta, makes us take a slightly less risk. I can tell you more: by making us take a slightly lower risk, it is basically able to break down, even significantly, the statistics to which Senator Malan referred earlier. Wanting then to follow someone else's intervention, he will avoid many, precisely for this effect, using so-called fears - as has been said - never endured to try to hinder this provision. I believe that this is an amendment of common sense and I really do not understand the opposite view of both the rapporteur and the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u105	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u106	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti, until the words " (a) " are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3,103 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.105.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u109	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this amendment proposes that refusal at the border be possible if it is a person who claims to commit crimes in our country, in our continent. I quote a concrete case. There is a young man who reached a certain ephemeral reputation some time ago for killing a dozen people in Berlin by investing them with a vehicle next to a Christmas market. This person arrived in Germany in July 2015 and then made his main crime in Berlin, just before Christmas. In Berlin, he used to sell cocaine: under surveillance, he made a formal request for political asylum in Germany, but it was rejected. Instead, his expulsion was decided because he was a man of about thirty years old. Its history goes amply also for our country, because in Italy it had already been sentenced to four years of imprisonment for aggression, damage and fire at the reception center in which it was welcomed. I would remind you that 1,801 offenses have been found to be committed by foreign minors in reception centres. In these centres, funded by the Italian taxpayer, there were, in 2015, 1,801 crimes. These numbers are likely to have increased greatly because, with the government's policy, the arrivals have also increased, so it is normal to expect that there has been an increase at the same time. I repeat, in 2015 there were 1,801 crimes. The aforementioned gentleman, named Anis Amri, had arrived in Italy at the age of eighteen in 2010, declaring he was seventeen. He probably didn't say he wanted to commit crimes at the border, but even if one wanted to repeat his gesture in Italy (many greeted him as a hero of the holy war), saying he was seventeen years old and maybe having them really, and saying - I repeat - that he wanted to do the same things that Mr. Amri did, he couldn't be expelled. There would be a psychologist who would see what he needs and what else, after which the iter would be about the same. In the case of Amri it is not a hypothetical fact because it happened: he assaulted, he drugged drugs and finally killed 12 people, probably in the idea of conquering the paradise that some fools consider to be aspects of criminals who kill innocent people in the name of their religion, while instead their fate in the afterlife in my opinion is exactly the opposite, and in the "afterlife" it should be heavily sanctioned and prevented by States, and not facilitated by a privileged highway at the expense of Italian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u110	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.105 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,106 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,107 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u113	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in view of the empathy that has arisen between the Bulgarian majority and the opposition, the absolute lack of dialogue and improvement, we shall vote against Article 3, to the delight of the majority and the Undersecretary. [[Senator Santangelo nods to verify the correspondence of the cards with the senators present.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u114	My card remained there because I came to preside, Senator Santangelo: I pray the Secretary Senators to withdraw it and make a general check to see if there are other cards out of place. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). Senator Saggese, vote. Clearly, Senator Secretary is here. Reasonableness is part of the rules. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u117	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I imagine that there is also the opposite view on this amendment. Mr President, have the rapporteur and the government also expressed their opinion on this amendment? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask that the amendment be changed and accepted as an agenda, reminding all my colleagues that we are only asking for one thing: conciliation between different ministries and a passage concerning the guidelines in the relevant parliamentary committees. By voting against this proposal, we vote against ourselves. We won't even have a chance to see the guidelines. I repeat, I would ask you to accept it as an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u118	Let us see if the rapporteur and the government have a different opinion than the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u119	Mr President, I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u120	Mr President, the opinion is against, but I would like to explain why it does not seem unmotivated. Senator Volpi, it's nothing personal. The amendment states that the assessment of the child's best interests according to the junta should be carried out on the basis of guidelines adopted by the Ministry of Interior. This law assigns jurisdiction to assess not only the minor's age, but also the child's good to judges such as the judge to protect or the judge to minors and so on. It is not possible for me to arrive positively at the idea that the best interest of the child is determined by the Ministry of the Interior, although it is the Ministry to which I belong.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u121	I would ask the authors if they insist on the vote. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.0.100, presented by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u122	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u123	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u124	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4102 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4,103 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u125	Mr President, once again we try to use the sense of reality, that is, common sense, in a law that seems to want to strictly keep common sense outside its text. Amendment 5.04 proposes an amendment to Article 19-a which is intended to be inserted after Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 142 of 2015, which provides for an interview with the minor, aimed at deepening his personal and family history and to bring out any other useful element for his protection, in accordance with the procedure established by decree (...). The interview is guaranteed the presence of a cultural mediator. With the amendment, I propose that we add 'where age makes it possible'. Does the child born on the boat, who has a few hours of life when he arrives, have to have an interview with the cultural mediator? Of course he will not, but we have written that we must do so. Therefore, that little staff, who already works in situations of extreme discomfort, will have to fill out, in the absence of the interview, a form in which he writes that it was not possible to perform the interview referred to in article 19-a, as amended by the law that unfortunately will probably become this text, because the child was a few hours old. The bureaucracy, which so much is said of wanting to limit, instead feeds itself, always in the name of this ideological idol for which these are all children in need, but then, in some surroundings, it takes the cultural mediator. But, gentlemen, a child with four hours of life who has to interview to tell his story to the cultural mediator and the interpreter? Let's be serious! Of course, since the representative of the Government has anticipated his views by saying that there is only a favourable opinion on Article 11, he will clearly give an opinion against this amendment and I believe, with my intuitive capacity, that the rapporteur will also be against it. We're gonna leave this, too. For Christ's sake. In fact, welcoming something common sense... Attention, if you receive something common sense, then the madness of everything else emerges more. So let's pretend it's all crazy; given the time we are, I could call it a carnival, but unfortunately this law will last all year, it won't be in force only at carnival and there will be very little to laugh about. In fact, those who are really in need of assistance will not receive it or receive it together with hundreds of other people, some like Mr. Amri, who, arrived as a minor or a minor in Italy, has committed crimes in Italy and Germany, where he killed 12 people. This person would probably also give problems to his fellow residents in a reception center, so much so that this gentleman was always sentenced to four years for a crime committed there. But nothing, we must welcome them all and treat them all as if they were very good people; madly, even babies must be treated for seventeen years. This is a truly extraordinary thing. Another amendment seeks to meet the fact that it is not certain that these people need emergency first aid. In fact, many of the people who arrive burst out of health and in many cases we see it well. These guys come in full of life and muscles. They come with their cell phones, make a sign of victory in front of the camera, and call home and say, It's okay, you're coming too. But it is provided for in the procedure that the first necessary and urgent assistance should be given to them (let us consider the second!). There will also be a form to fill out: The fulfilment of the law (...) has not been implemented because, after careful investigation, there was no need for it. Why not write that down? I will return to the rest during the vote on the individual amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u126	Mr President, this is an article that enters the procedural stages, so let us begin to deal with a technical issue, on which we believe there are absolutely amendable parts. I would like to take the example of our amendment 5.05. In the article we talk about a number of subjects that should assist in the relationship with the child. We believe that there should be a more third position. Here we are also talking about associations and I do not want to take anything away from those who do this work, but in our opinion the body that can be responsible for doing this is ASL (we have written ASL, although probably in some regions it is called in a different way). The territorial social and health unit in charge has in fact all the tools to be able to make technical, psychological and support evaluations (I say it a bit 'cold, although obviously it is not just this). This is a first step. The second step is linked to an amendment by Mr Malan. If I suspect that the child is not so minor, for example if I suspect that a person is twenty years old and not seventeen or sixteen, our amendment 5.117, signed by myself and Senator Calderoli, requires that this person be asked to undergo certain physical checks rather than medical tests. At a time when such a person refuses, he is evidently not a minor. In fact, if you are a minor (and we are not talking, of course, about the child who does not understand, but almost adult person) you also understand that it is in your interest to undergo a verification visit. So, as we enter the procedure, we predict a third part, instead of inventing too many actors in the process of receiving young people's requests. Basically, we predict ASL's intervention. Then, when it is observed that the young man is large and probably not sixteen years old, he will be asked to do all the investigations. At a time when he refuses to make an investigation, he himself is evidently saying that he is not minor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u129	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the whole of the amendments and, in this particular case, I also ask for permission to add the signature to Amendment 5,100. Mr President, the situation has already been very well described in previous speeches by my fellow Members. However, we must focus on the situation before us, because once again, in this way, the answer is inadequate in relation to the situation we are experiencing. This law, and this article in particular, which should provide for identification, is part of a historic moment in which tens of thousands of illegals, adults or minors are arriving. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]] Mr Calderoli, can you no longer be said to be illegal? It's true. We must also be careful about words, because if they are not politically correct there is also preventive censorship or even judicial censorship. This too, in fact, is the scenario in which we are going to our country: the words are censored. Attention, because when I say clandestine, I say aware that on the other hand, there is someone who has not respected the rules. If, in fact, a person shows up at the border by declining his or her generalities, this is a country that, by Constitution, does not deny asylum to anyone: by Constitution! Old age or underage. In reality, however, we are in a country in which today you want to dismiss, without approving an amendment, a law that has as its content the most total hypocrisy. That is, use minors to show that you are careful to give real asylum to those who need it, that is the smallest, those who are most defenceless, losing sight of the fact that this situation today, unfortunately, is the subject of business, through trafficking. This is what is happening from one side of the Mediterranean to the other. Moreover, as we have learned from the judicial chronicles, the scafists are also assisted, because they travel only a few miles from the Libyan coast, after which they arrive directly the ships of the Navy or, even, of some non-governmental organization that joins. In this way people are transferred and taken to Italy. And the boatmen are also organized in their way of landing. When it is necessary, unfortunately, they are women, when it is necessary, unfortunately, they are children and when it is necessary they are of age. I turn to the government: first the invasion stops and then the borders are managed in a serious way. This alone can ensure that there is no speculation and that trafficking is not created. You are in fact structurally inserting into a law the ways in which to make the route, declinating its characteristics. It regulates the case of people who more or less resemble minors, perhaps even with some wrinkles, or, as Senator Malan said very wisely, with some hint of beard, which is not said to be a sign of age. Perhaps it is a symptom of a dysfunction typical of some strange country, not necessarily African or Asian, and these individuals therefore have the right, not only to the cultural mediator, but also to a deepening of the genetic study that can reveal a new human characteristic. Outside these metaphors and from these descriptions, colleagues, helping minors is another account. I don't know how to describe it, but I don't see the children of Biafra coming to our country, who, when I was a child, were described in the daily chronicle as undernourished, helped and helped. I still remember today that, then with a few hundred lire and today with a few euros, in the countries of origin one could and can even educate, educate and grow a minor. Here we are defining structurally that trafficking can be a useful business, for those who use these people instrumentally. It is in fact a question of saying that we welcome these children, because they are the most defenceless. Colleagues, I invite you first to approve a measure with which to stop the trade, then to help and help those who really need it. On the other hand, the measure under consideration does not provide for funds, it defines rules that will burden local authorities in a huge way and essentially dumps the management of these problems on the territory. This is what happens on time: problems are being dumped on municipalities and local administrations. I therefore wonder what the ratio of the measure is and I invite you to stop, ladies and gentlemen, because you will go to make further discrimination between those who are entitled and those who are not entitled, but are only instrumentally addressed in this way, creating tensions and unfortunately feeding the business also on the national territory. We have not yet seen the conclusion of the investigations on the CARA of Mineo or on the non-governmental associations, which unfortunately we have discovered alongside the scafisti in the tract, but you are already about to approve a new measure that encourages these movements. This is not good: the first thing to do is to establish that those who are not entitled cannot enter the national territory and that there can be no organizations that transport people from one side of the Mediterranean with impunity. Mr. Undersecretary, Mrs. Minister, how many are the boatmen in prison today? Unfortunately, they are less than 10% of those who are stopped: they are real and statistical data. In the face of this, the measure before us opens up the borders to tens of thousands of people. The children, or rather those who are declared to be such, last year were 14,000, 15,000, 16,000, or 20,000. This is not the way to deal with this situation. Is that 25,000? They're going to be 30,000, because you're pointing out the characteristics to the boatmen. I hope you understand this concept is that you stop, because on the horizon we do not have a term that tells us that the route will be stopped. This is a measure that, on the contrary, encourages it, because it favors the perbenism of the country, that is, that which reaches to correct the words and to prevent a free citizen from calling "clandestine" who is such. I would ask that there really be a reflection on this too, because we are even moving towards a degeneration in the freedom of our fellow citizens to express themselves. Well, you are opening up indiscriminately to child trafficking. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u132	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on the whole of the amendments and ask not only for the attention of all my colleagues, but also of Mr Finocchiaro and the Minister. In fact, this article is of fundamental importance. We must not be conditioned by fury or ideological prejudice, but we must ensure, in this article, that there is an effective identification of the child and that it is actually so. All necessary tools must be effectively used to ensure that there is no instrumental use of the law to commit crimes. What has indeed happened in our country? Mrs. Minister, you know better than I do that in the last year there have been 240 cases of sexual violence by unaccompanied minors. You teach me that by applying the eighth paragraph of the article in question, although doubts remain, it is assumed that the subject is of a minor age. Therefore, the 17-year-old who is such does not refuse to undergo socio-health examinations. Amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Malan, states that in that case the presumption of a minor age does not apply. I repeat, the case is the one that sees the conduct of health checks to verify the age, to which the subject refuses to undergo. What should 17 - year - olds do, but have declared himself so? It is obvious: he refuses to remain qualified as such, because if he has committed a crime he will be judged by the court for minors, with the laws that we rightly adopt for those who are minors. If you do not pay attention to these aspects, there is a risk that the rule will be exploited by those who want to escape the sanction provided for criminal behavior. I don't understand. I expect to know the opinions, in particular on Amendment 5.12. In fact, if the presumption of the minor applies even when the minor refuses, then it is useless to write the ten paragraphs of Article 5. Suffice it to say that anyone who has declared himself a minor remains so and, for whatever action he should take (even serious crimes), will be judged by the court for minors.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u133	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u134	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 5. As regards agendas G5.100 and G5.101, I am in favour of their adoption as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u135	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u136	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,100. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 2583 and 1295
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u139	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking with regard to two aspects: the first of a substantial nature and the second of a substantial and economic nature. The substantive nature of amendment 5,100 is that, at the end of the complex procedure for identifying the child, we leave an empty chunk. Once, even after laborious research, we have established that the subject is not older than the major, then we do not predict what to do. So far we have heard, also from my colleagues, a number of doubts about the reliability of the subject from the point of view not only of the statements he makes, but also of his social danger. I would now like to make a point of opposition. The minor, especially if female, must be protected in a manner appropriate to his or her younger age. The child must be protected in a manner appropriate to his or her younger age, especially if female, so it must be established - and this law does not establish it - how to protect him from a promiscuity that could be harmful to him. Will there be ad hoc reception centers? Will there be sections to protect minors in reception centres from promiscuity with irregularly arrived subjects on our territory that could harm them, given the difference in age? Nothing is made clear, therefore, because of this very serious deficiency, I consider this articulated and in particular the forecasts contained in Article 5 absolutely lacking an important part of the subject of their discipline. The second point relates to financial cover. It cannot be said quickly (and I am sorry that the 5th Commission has done so in two words) that the whole complex procedure provided for in Article 5 can be carried out by covering it with the usual formula of which, during this parliamentary term, has been abused in a very unlikely way, which reads: The implementation of the provisions of this Article shall be carried out within the limits of the human, financial and instrumental resources available to existing legislation and in any case without any new or increased burden on public finances. I turn to the President of the 5th Commission: we have censored far less costly amendments, although with this magic formula on purpose, instead considering them necessary to cover, here, with the same formula, we are justifying the possible increase in expenditure considering it to be incomprehensible in the resources already available. It is true that we are spending huge, uncontrollable and uncontrollable figures - perhaps deliberately uncontrolled - on this issue of immigration, but it is also true that, from the point of view of legislation, we should have some consistency and make it clear that these procedures which provide for three, four or five checks for each subject cannot be carried out within the limits of the available resources or without having to resort to additional appropriations. The hypocrisy of all this measure is more evident precisely from these details, the superficiality with which this subject was dealt with in the parliamentary examination is also revealed in this particular. Then, perhaps, the 5th Commission gives an opinion against an amendment which simply says that the first reception can be carried out by organisations or bodies with proven and specific experience or with the assistance of an interpreter: so the interpreter can cost exorbitant figures, so much so that they are not included in the resources already available, while the organizations - which we know how much they cost and who they are responsible for, who it is easy to entrust additional tasks and always new tasks remunerated - can carry out tasks that, from the accounting point of view, can be acquitted with the resources already available. We cannot but censor, as colleagues have repeatedly said, the substantive content of this article, which is absolutely lacking, even for the next stage the examination of the age of the subject, as I have allowed myself to explain, not protecting it precisely where it is found that it is a minor that therefore cannot be entered into the treatment reserved to all those who are subject to maintenance in the context of the affair of unauthorized immigration. It is also absolutely clear that this issue has been dealt with, from the point of view of financial cover, with unacceptable superficiality. This is a measure that will bring additional burdens on the costs of immigration, burdens that have not been quantified nor with technical report (I suppose there has not been a technical report at the basis of this hasty opinion of no obstacle), nor by the proposers with their proposal significantly appropriate as regards the certain costs that will have to be addressed. That is why we shall vote in favour of Amendment 5,100, which provides for the deletion of the article, and for all the others very wisely and well illustrated by our group's colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u142	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are dealing with an deleted proposal and I would like to try to raise awareness of why, speaking of one of our amendments, 5105. Please listen to me, because this is not a polemical phase. Currently Article 5, paragraph 1 states: "of the services of the competent local authority and assisted, where possible, by organisations, bodies or associations with proven and specific experience in the protection of minors." Well, if we believe that this additional support is necessary, it cannot be optional, you cannot write it where possible. And when is that not possible? [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] It is an inequitable element: if a minor, or rather a child's carer, is in a position not to have the applicability of this legislative suggestion, there could also be scenarios of litigation. Either it is necessary or it is not; if necessary, our proposal is simple: we expect a third actor, which is ASL, who has all the elements to be of support at this time of transition for the child and we guarantee all minors the same service. It does not seem to me to be a controversial proposal, it seems to me to be of common sense. Am I wrong? I don't believe in this case. If needed, write from the local authority... or it means that, at the time of recognition and in the process, you will treat some minors with greater protection than others, which you will not treat in the same way. Either you give everyone the same opportunity or you take it off or you charge the ASL, which has the ability to give all possible services. Is this crazy? I don't know. I think it's normal, I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u143	I put to the vote Amendment 5,100, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. It's not approved. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5101. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 51.01 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 51.02 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,103 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5104 tabled by Senators Malan and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.4, which is identical to Amendment 5.05.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u146	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, an important measure is being discussed and Senator Malan rightly recalled how common sense must be the master of these matters. It would therefore be appropriate to remind everyone, even those who have had the opportunity to make the city council member to social services, or in general the administrator in the various administrations, of all the political colors, that when a minor foreigner is found in the territory of a municipality immediately takes charge, from the social point of view and therefore also economic, to the municipal administrations, on which these costs have a great deal, because often the associations and the families dedicated to the reception have very high costs, because in some cases they offer important services. Amendment 5.4 therefore seems to me to go in the right direction: in the case of minors who are taken over by associations and various institutions dealing with minors and who present very salty accounts to local administrations, it is proposed that at least at first, when a number of evaluations are to be made, they can be put in charge of territorial ASLs; moreover, as we know, the health aspect is paid by the regions, while the social aspect is already paid by the coffers of the municipalities, because at the assemblies of the mayors the social aspect is obviously paid by the municipalities and the municipal administrations. A saving would therefore be achieved for the local authorities without removing anything; one could evaluate who is entitled, for what reason and then direct every minor in the various family houses according to the specificities that he can have. Therefore, in connection with the common sense that Senators D'Alì, Malan and other Members of this House are calling for in their speeches, it is simply a matter of saving the municipalities, which take full responsibility for the unaccompanied foreign minors found in their territories, even the small municipalities, in which the social aspect affects a very important part of the municipal administration. It will not be appropriate to talk about the cuts made to local authorities, but these unaccompanied foreign minors have a huge influence. In addition, the same treatment would be granted to everyone, as one of the other Group's colleagues mentioned earlier. Finally, these services are already paid, because territorial ASLs for the social share are already paid by the municipalities. I therefore believe that Senator Malan's amendment 5.4 is once again absolutely of common sense and frankly I do not understand why oppositions should not be allowed to contribute.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u147	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Malan, identical to Amendment 5.05, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5106, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VOLPI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 5106.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u150	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Amendment 5106 is a consequence of the amendment that my colleague presented earlier. You did not even want to consider a fact and I also address President Tonini, not being an expert in finance and budget: how do you quantify the expression "where possible" within a measure? The expression "where possible" within a measure is not quantifiable. Amendment 5106 calls for at least the least unfair part to be expunged, because children will have to suffer from the fact that some forecasts in some areas will be applied and others will not. I am truly grounded by the lack of common sense and the pervicacy with which we refuse to write standards a minimum cum wheat salt. Wanting to make controversy: you will have the satisfaction of seeing young people who will have a certain type of support and others who will not have it instead. Go ahead and vote. Then you will see when the disputes open and the operators and the mayors will lose it, because they will not have been able to give the same kind of assistance in different places. Move on! You're irresponsible. Even reasonable things don't want to hear [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u153	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as I said in my explanation of vote on the deleterious amendment to Article 5, it is very strange to have to note that there is no comment from the Budget Commission on the intervention mechanism for determining the age of the child through a whole range of benefits and, from an accounting point of view, the fact that the organisation, body or association with proven and specific experience in the protection of minors, can be replaced by an interpreter. It happens that this association, in the same text, is also obliged to guarantee the presence of a cultural mediator. Therefore, either this association is actually experienced in the care and contact with the minor, or it is one of those associations of which unfortunately the chronicles of recent times have filled the newspapers and televisions, indicating how these very often unreasonably benefit on the issue of immigration. That there is an interpreter instead of an association I don't think it could constitute an increase in costs. I repeat: there should also be a specification of these costs, which the Government certainly did not perform during the examination in the Budget Committee. This opens up another political consideration: what is the reason for the government's tightening up on a text of parliamentary initiative? We have witnessed, in almost 90% of the cases, the Government's stiffening of texts of its own initiative, for which there have been armored texts, confidences have been placed, debate has been denied and negative opinions have been given in the grass-beam. Now, it has been a while, because it has also happened recently with another measure of parliamentary initiative, that the Government, perhaps in its inability to draw up its own, takes possession of a text of parliamentary initiative and blazes it without allowing Parliament to amend it, discuss it and modify it according to the common sense of logic and common sense, as we have repeatedly explained. This is not acceptable, and I am also addressing my colleagues in the majority who, in my opinion, are the first victims of these armor rather than those of the opposition who, we know, have little chance of influencing the judgments of this House for obvious numerical reasons. The majority continues to be bound to opinions, certainly induced by the Government and not in the conviction of the rapporteur, absolutely opposed to everything, justified only by the immodifiability of the text. Obviously, a text that has agreed with someone and must quickly come to the definition because there are perhaps operational reasons, not in the good sense, but in the sense of opportunity or opportunism for someone to use it. This is a very specific case: we continue to favour the inclusion in immigration spending of organisations that are not better identified. There is not even a register prescribed for these types of organisations that must have specific competence in the treatment of minors; there is not even the prediction that a register of specialised technicians is produced and refuses the fact that these interventions, certainly at a lower cost, this yes, using the resources available, can be addressed by the territorially competent ASLs. This is really a contradiction that can only have an underlying motivation, on which perhaps it is preferable not to investigate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u156	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to make two quick comments. I believe that the work that the Budget Committee does - and which Senator D'Ali knows because it has been a long-time authoritative member of our Commission - is a heritage of the whole Senate, regardless of who is pro-temporaneous in the role of a majority or, even more so, a presidency. And we should all guard this common heritage. If we were to repeat in this Chamber the investigation that - as Senator D'Alì knows - is being carried out in a very petty way in the Commission, obviously no measure could ever see the light. So in the Commission an investigation is carried out, which is as fallible and objectionable as all human things, but this investigation ends with the work of the Commission. The Assembly remains free to request the vote, supported by an adequate number of senators, despite the Commission's opinion against it. I would also ask Senator Volpi to bear in mind that he cannot ask why an opinion has been given on an amendment, because we should repeat in this House, live, the very hard work we do in the Commission and this is materially clearly impossible. As far as the specific issue of this measure is concerned, it has been the subject of a month's attention from our Commission and we have not dismissed the opinion of the Commission until we have received the technical report prepared and boiled down by the General Accounting Office of the State. Therefore, on the correctness of the work of the 5th Commission, I believe that there should be no doubt. Of course, this does not detract from the debate on substance, which is political on the content and on which every senator and group has the full right to say its opinion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u159	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I do not understand the reason for the opposition expressed on Amendment 5106 by the Budget Committee under Article 81 of the Constitution. I believe that there must be not only economic coverage but also common sense at the heart of everything. Article 5 reads as follows: At the time when the unaccompanied foreign child has come into contact or has been reported to the police authorities, social services or other representatives of the local authority or judicial authority, the qualified staff of the first reception facility shall, under the direction of the services of the competent local authority and assisted, where possible, by organisations, bodies or associations with proven and specific experience in the protection of minors, perform an interview. How is it possible for a law to put the phrase: "where possible"? Either there is an obligation to intervene these subjects or there is no obligation and, therefore, it may be worth removing them. Next to this, there is the cultural mediator; there is the guardian, even temporary, if already appointed and we asked that there be also the interpreter. I would like to start from scratch: in the presumption that the child's statements are truthful and not false, do you explain to me, if the child does not speak Italian, who makes the declaration of being an unaccompanied minor and the request to be recognized as such? The cover is for everything, but there is no cover for the interpreter. That sounds like a half-hearted thing to me. We're talking about people who have no idea of our language. It is said that there are no resources to translate their demands, but who establishes this presumption of underage? A look, where present, of organizations and associations with proven and specific experience in the protection of minors? I think it is absolutely mandatory to put the interpreter. I would have put it in Article 1. Even more so, I believe that we should vote on Amendment 5106, even with the opposite opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u162	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the whole of the Lega Nord Group supports the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u163	The Presidency takes note of this. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5106, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.07.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u166	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment, but I also appeal to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. However, the measure will return to the House: can we fix it with something reasonable? That doesn't sound crazy. I am saying this to my colleagues in the majority: go back to the House, because it has already been modified and will be modified. Can we put in reasonable things? Does it seem to you that there are political amendments calling for the interpretation or equal treatment of all minors? What are you doing? I don't understand you. If the iter ended here, you could say that you did your act of renziana arrogance and patience, but go back to the House! You can modify, you can improve: you can understand it, this thing, or you can't even touch a comma? Why don't you? Mine's an appeal. If I wanted to make political controversy, as before, everyone knows the parts of the script, but this is not part of the script, they are true things. I apologise to President Tonini for not wanting to take anything away from the Budget Committee. However, I simply wanted to point out that in an articulated "where possible" it is not quantifiable and you know it too. It did not want to be a criticism, because I know the work you do and I think of my colleagues in the majority and opposition committee. Nothing. I remind you again: this text goes back to the House, you can change it. See what you guys do.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u169	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, the draft law before us will return to the House and it is certainly not perfect, but it is perfect. Unaccompanied minors are certainly not just males, but also women who are raped. Certainly the youngest children are not only children of people who wanted children, but are also children of women who have been subjected to violence, because they are people who suffer trafficking. Surely this bill is not prefect. Most likely there will be a willingness on the part of the Minister to allocate resources to local authorities in order to be able to really train people. It's true: these people don't speak Italian, they speak English. Most of them speak English or French, while most of our migrant policemen do not even understand what they say, although they speak English. They don't speak any language, but English, which should be the international language. This bill is not excellent, but neither are the discussions that are being held here, talking about people who have still escaped from a place that is their land. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, Art.1-MDP and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups.]] Who could ever -- any of you, maybe? - to see one's own son run away like this, just to do: what's the point? It is not true that they are simply running away because they want to invade us; It was us, over the years, over the centuries, who invaded them. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]] I've seen people in Mali who haven't been able to cure their children from malaria, not yesterday or forwards, but in these years, now. Don't we want them? Don't we want to create a welcome? It doesn't matter to create reception just to do; they don't give a damn about being here: they simply want the right to human dignity. They are not niggers of Africa, niggers of Mali, niggers of Congo: they are human beings. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, Art.1-MDP and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u170	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.07 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Volpi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 5.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u173	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you correctly reminded Senator Volpi that the provision for our examination will return to the House and I cannot understand why we only have to do paperweights here. Nobody has called into question principles which belong to everyone, and I have not heard a word from anyone who is explaining the amendments that might suggest that those principles, which have been so well set out, have been called into question by anyone who has spoken before; On the contrary, it seems to me that these amendments want to improve the text with this very ratio, precisely thinking that we are talking about people, children and minors. That is why Senator Malan's amendment on which I spoke earlier, the content of which is now contained in Amendments 5.6 and 5.7, has a ratio. What is the problem if you write: "to check the psychophysical state of health of the child in order to ensure the necessary primary care and condition of minor age"? It seems to me that we are going to meet the child: we want to give him maximum assistance. We asked for the ASL to do so before and, with Amendment 5.7, the request is confirmed, along with other structures. We must also consider the costs of the state and throwing away public money is always a problem for a good administrator (but I imagine also for parliamentarians). It is said that there are already organised, specific structures, which - I repeat - are paid 30%, i.e. for the social structure, for the municipalities, for the budget of the various municipal administrations. I do not understand the objection: they want to add protection against minors and they are saying that they pay for ASL, because they are already paid. Since we are not paperweights, I ask you: do you have any idea, senators who are in this House about what an unaccompanied minor costs to a municipal administration on a daily basis? I imagine there are former local administrators in this House! You're not talking about dignity. You are saying: because you offer a service and there are minors, who may be at risk of escape, who are followed twenty-four hours a day, some structures cost 200 or 350 euros a day. Look, there would be clarification, and I think it would be everyone's interest, where there are things that are not good and unfortunately there are examples, which we have seen in recent months, in the field of reception, of cooperatives dedicated to other rather than reception. So I say: if the costs per day are these and they are so high, why at first do we not want to rely on structures that are already paid with the money of the municipalities, that is, citizens' taxes and public money? Frankly, I refuse to think that this is the Senate, because otherwise he was right, before the referendum, who wanted to close it, and instead he was wrong and was rejected by 60% of Italians: we senators refuse to make paperweights. And these are common sense amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u176	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, very briefly, you know and know my love for animals, so imagine yourself if I don't love kangaroo. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Even the tigers. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Not just the tigers, even the bears, the wolves. But the kangaroo is an animal that I always liked, also because I contributed to its birth, I always made it grow and so on. Now, however, that you tell me to vote on the first part of Amendment 5.6, until - I think - it is a minor age, and then we leave in the second part 'ad', this is not a kangaroo, it is a kangaroo or a frog. It seems humiliating to me that the first part is used to avoid voting on the word "ad". Take two votes, because otherwise the procedure really makes a fool of itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u177	Amendment 5.6 will be put to the vote until the words "checking the state of health" are put to the vote. So it's very understandable, beyond the kangaroos. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.6 tabled by Senator Malan, until the words 'checking the state of health'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.108 are therefore excluded. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u180	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Italian Left, in view of the presence of the Government in this Chamber, would like to remind this Government, which is obviously a merchant's ear, that the CGIL has collected 3.3 million signatures to hold a referendum on jobs act, therefore on vouchers and contracts. The Council has declared these referendums admissible for more than thirty days and this Government has not yet set the date. We propose to set the same date for referendums as the local elections, thus saving citizens money, and we expect the government to do so immediately because I believe that respect is a fundamental thing in every democracy. Continuing to pretend nothing is really depressing for this Government, which has already done so many depressing things, as far as the world of work is concerned. The prayer and the hope is that this Government will immediately set the date of the referendum, because the workers deserve respect from a Government that on the world of work - I repeat - has not given respect to the workers. Let's talk about essentials. Since everyone is talking about democracy, this is a high form of democracy, because it comes directly from the people and deserves even more respect. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u183	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, on 24 January the Commission began to examine the draft law in order to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the Il Forteto Community. I know I can sound stressful, but I think the shame is worse. The Senate Assembly approved the statement of urgency for this bill. I therefore expect the Commission to fire the measure at the latest next week and to come to this House. Also because, looking a bit 'on the issue I found that in the school year 2005-2006 the community Il Forteto, that is Rodolfo Fiesoli, has carried out a three-year program to teach how to educate children, involving in this experiment twelve elementary classes, four classes of middle schools and three of high schools. Meanwhile, I wonder who gave this subject permission to take this three-year course of self-training, when it was already known in 2000 that Rodolfo Fiesoli was convicted of child abuse. Moreover, and not only, in the book he writes on this self-training are also involved some scientific collaborators of the University of Florence, i.e. Professor Paolo Orefice, Dr. Maria Rita Mancaraniello, Dr. Caterina Benelli, Dr. Giovanna Del Gobbo and Dr. Francesca Marchi. I would also like to point out that in the second year of programming some schools refused to participate. Therefore, I ask those outside to send us the information, because this scandal must end and this House must put an end to this disgusting thing that has happened to children. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u186	WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). Mr President, on Monday 20 February, the Government of South Sudan officially declared the hunger emergency that is mainly affecting the State of Unity, in the North of the country. The major international agencies of the United Nations have issued a joint statement strongly calling attention to the emergency situation: 100,000 people are in danger of dying of hunger. In this region, if no immediate action is taken, it is feared that about half of the South Sudanese population, i.e. five and a half million people, will have no access to food by July. It's only been six years since the terrible food emergency that struck Somalia. Now another African country officially declares hunger. And what gives more bitterness and discouragement is that in this case the emergency is dictated by a context of insecurity, by a civil war for which people die or escape. For almost a century now, famines are not of a Maltese type, i.e. they are not caused by cynical and cheating destiny. Problems arise because of human inability to organize rapid and effective reactions to food crises. Dr. Vincenzo Riboni, doctor of Cuamm, Medici with Africa, an ONLUS of Padua, in Cueibet, in the State of Gok, writes: During this period, there was an increase in cases of malnutrition in the hospital, especially in children under five years of age. The phenomenon is linked, in this area, to the serious repercussions of a non-existent economy that has led to the collapse of the South-Sudan currency, to the poverty and backwardness of this population. The repercussions of what is happening in neighbouring areas are also felt here, but will be even more evident in the coming months. The fear is therefore that the emergency will spread and will not remain confined to the State of Unity. With this intervention I want to draw the attention of the Government to the dramatic situation in South Sudan, a state shaken by instability, mostly of inter-ethnic origin, which is having a dramatic impact on the survival of the population. In the immediate future, Italy will do its utmost to ensure that the food crisis is quickly overcome. In addition, the Italian Government strives with tenacity for this young country to move towards paths of peace and development.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u189	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, you will probably have learned from the news - to be precise from a television service, while at this point we would have expected at least one judicial chronicle - some aspects at least disturbing. Mr President, I am referring to the reports of clear conflict of interest that obviously exist in Umbria, but they are silent, regarding the function of the President of the Region, Catiuscia Marini, in his capacity as deputy commissioner for post-sysm reconstruction, and to the qualification of the same who is held as executive in expectation in the company Cosp Tecno Service. Mr President, the other evening we were able to learn from a television service of the broadcast "Le Iene" that the national consortium of services (CNS) in 2015 won a contract of EUR 1.2 billion for the construction of 18,000 of the famous houses, the same ones that are not yet delivered in these days. The Council of State in recent days has condemned the CNS for manipulating a contract in 2012. It must be said that moral requirements are lacking in order to be able to participate in subsequent contracts, but this is another matter. What certainly jumps to the eye is how it is possible that President Marini does not feel the conflict of interest that exists between his figure, as subcommissary to the reconstruction - I repeat - and his qualification as employee of Cosp Tecno Service, subcontractor of the CNS for the construction of the houses and, I add, also as beneficiary of a financing in the electoral campaign by Cosp Tecno Service itself. So there is an obvious short circuit. The President of the Region takes funding in the electoral campaign from the cooperative of which he is executive in expectation and is then found to be also - in this case for destiny, but should make a choice of opportunities - submissive to reconstruction. There's a short circuit. So I ask the Umbrian PD: do you not feel the smell of this short circuit, since the wires are being roasted and the current is burning everything?. And for the sake of convenience I say: either you do it, or the judiciary will do it, but President Marini should stand aside from this obvious conflict of interest, which is hurting Umbrian citizens, who do not have adequate governance of post-an earthquake reconstruction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u192	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, if I were a fire, I would like to be used to illuminate the darkness of the historiographic cave that put a noose in the throat of many historical truths silent for institutional fear. If I were a Southern boy, I would question why the South has 50% less work, services, infrastructure, opportunities and hopes, why work needs to emigrate away from its own land and its own affections. If I were a majority, I would be outraged to see that, compared with 71 infrastructure projects to be carried out by 2020, only two concern the Mezzogiorno. Matera has been elected European capital of culture and does not yet have a railway station, while from Naples it is still impossible to reach by train Bari without having to change it, just as it is impossible that one of the most important ports of the Mediterranean Sea, like Gioia Tauro, is not adequately connected to the railway network. If I were a contemporary writer, I would have started my book like this: I did not know that during the annexation they did to the South what the Nazis did to Marzabotto. And they erased forever many countries (such as Gaeta, Casalduni, Auletta, Pontelandolfo) in anti-terrorism operations, such as the marines in Iraq. I did not know that in reprisals freedom of rape was granted on southern women, as in the Balkans during the ethnic conflict. I did not know that the conquistadors had the right to plunder in the southern cities, such as the Lanzichenecchi in Rome. But the writer Pino Aprile preceded me. If I were left, I would say that it was a ferocious dictatorship that put iron and fire in southern Italy and the islands, crucifying, ripping, burying live poor peasants who waged writers tried to infamous with the brand of brigands, but Gramsci preceded me. If I were right, I would say that the war against the brigant cost more dead than all those of the Risorgimento, but Montanelli preceded me. If I had been a garibaldino, I would come here to tell you that the outrages suffered by the southern populations were immeasurable, but Garibaldi preceded me. If I had been a President of the Republic, I would have thundered it is right to remember how united Italy was born. To be together, this awareness is necessary and to heal ancient wounds. This can only be done if we remember pages of real suffering such as those experienced by Gaeta and in a dramatic way also by other communities, but Giorgio Napolitano preceded me. If I were a regional councilman, I would file a motion to remind the forgotten southern martyrs of the Risorgimento, but the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement of the Campania, Apulia, Molise, Basilicata and Abruzzo regions preceded me. If I were here in the Senate, I would say that time is ripe for reflection and analyze what happened to the southern civilian populations and how much our present costs us. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] There is hardly a mention of this in school textbooks, although today we have sufficient sources to honor the truth. Truth, that's all we ask. As a great man said: for the sake of my people, I will not be silent! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u193	Senator Puglia, on such an important subject from the historical point of view would require a conference, rather than an intervention at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u194	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-772.ana.u195	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 1 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.58 p.m.
