ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 29 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089. I would remind you that Articles 14 to 35 were adopted at the sitting of 29 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u11	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. At yesterday afternoon's sitting you pointed out to Senator Paolo Romani that the debate on the timetable was taking place at that time and, therefore, it was not the right time to ask for a referral back to the Commission of the anti-mafia code. I believe that the beginning of this sitting is the right time and, for this reason, I would ask you to do so in accordance with paragraph 1 of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure. I am well aware that I am actually talking about a late suspension, which is justified by new facts that have occurred since the beginning of the debate. Mr President, in my opinion, new facts have happened in the last week. The fact that many Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court have made it clear that the measure is unconstitutional and the fact that the President of the Anti-Corruption Authority, who is in some way one of the institutional counterparts of the measure, has said that the measure does not serve, on the contrary, is harmful, I believe that new interventions constitute facts that would justify the late suspension and the return to the Commission of the measure. I know perfectly well that, in the light of this article, it is your decision and it is indisputable. I therefore turn to your decision, highlighting the fact that new things have happened. In case your decision were negative, that is, if your judgment, which in this case is unavoidable, was different from mine (which is not only legitimate but absolutely possible), then I would ask you to reverse the order of business, which is in the faculty of a senator to ask, if supported by eight colleagues. I would point out to you that colleagues in the last three rows, which are ten, obviously support my request and can do so by raising their hands or by the forms you consider most appropriate. I address this request to you pursuant to Rule 56 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u14	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you have also read this morning the news that President Orfini is proposing to the House to consider President Cantone's comments on a revision of the bill. I wonder, then, if, for a formalistic tribute to the Rules of Procedure, we run the risk of having a possible return of the provision from the House to the Senate with consequent problems in the times. Yesterday, you rightly replied to President Paolo Romani, who asked for a return to the Commission, that it was not possible, because we were at the time of the vote on the agenda. Today I ask you to return the measure to the Commission, because we need to assess the issues with a minimum of coherence and deepening. Mr President, you gave us only one day to table the amendments. I will tell you later, if the measure does not return to the Commission, how many mistakes there are, because we only had one day for the amendments. If we want to be consistent with the logic that led us to table amendments accepted by the majority, then I wonder what is the reason for preventing a possible assessment. I didn't say what the outcome would be, but at least let's not stop the evaluation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u17	D'ASCOLA (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, all the problems arising from the anti-mafia code are linked to one aspect - the text is not controversial for the rest - namely the introduction of certain crimes against public administration in the area of the title of crime which allows the application of preventive measures. We must make a premise, because it is not conceivable that the truth has become a completely irrelevant fact. The Senate first - and only - posed the problem in this direction; so much so that we have written an alternative text, within the Commission, in which certainly the crimes against the public administration do not appear among the crimes that can activate its application. There is little point here in saying who has indicated this solution - in any case the rapporteurs have proposed it - which prevented the general application of crimes against the public administration as regards prevention measures. Therefore, the Senate has found a solution, since it has been the only branch of Parliament that has posed the problem. I note, with objective facts and dates, that the text is introduced to the Chamber of Deputies in November 2013, it remains there until 2015 and, in the work of the Chamber of Deputies, the introduction of the so-called incriminated provisions occurs. I must point out that no one has raised the problem. This happens in a context of absolute silence, acquiescence and - in a sense - surrender to the problem. The Senate poses the problem. It solves it in a way that I can think of, abstractly, may some even not like it. This is a legal problem which the House of Deputies may possibly resolve. But it is paradoxical that the problem explodes within the Senate, the only branch of Parliament that underlines the difficulty of a legislative choice of that kind, and does so in its own debate. It would be enough, for once, for the sake of truth, to go and read the Reports of the Senate, from which it appears, clearly, that the Senate did not appreciate that solution and, meanwhile, for a reason that must be said: the preventive measures, senators, are applicable to any crime, provided repeated. Therefore, the problem was already existing, within the solutions that were given with the security package of 2008-2009. Of course, in moving from a system of repetition to a system under which a single crime was sufficient to determine the application of the preventive measures to the Senate, when no one had posed the problem, when - indeed - the press pushed in this direction, stating, with articles disturbing the parliamentary work, that those perplexities meant wanting to remove the corrupt from the preventive measures, it is inevitable that faults of this kind are caused. Anyway, I have an answer to the demands. Is it conceivable that a legislative text, adopted not only in the Commission - this would prove nothing - but also in this House until the last of its articles, could return to the Commission? It is clear that the Commission will submit to any decision of this House. We believe, however, that the return of a text approved by this House to the Commission is unlikely. For purely formal reasons, the approval of one last article remains only in order and organisation of the work. The House of Deputies, which this problem, wrongly or rightly, has determined through the introduction of a provision that the Senate and, above all, the Commission of Justice have not appreciated since the first moment, will be able to make this correction and, consequently, will then be the Senate to evaluate its acceptance. But at this stage it is completely unthinkable that the text should be part of the Commission. I say this with great respect: no one thinks that this adjective is excessive, because if it may have seemed excessive, I apologise, of course. We certainly do not understand why a text voted by this House could go back to the Commission on justice, which is not understood as working on a text voted by this House. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD and Art.1-MDP Groups, and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u18	On the request of Senator Quagliariello, and in part also on that of Senator Caliendo, first of all, as regards the reversal of the agenda, I must point out that we have already entered the agenda. So it is impossible to reverse. And this was the subordinate proposed by Senator Quagliariello. With regard to the question properly qualified as a late suspensive question for new events, with a very broad assessment of the new facts - assuming that it can be considered a new fact - what the press may say can constitute, through interviews and publications of opinions, albeit of valuable and illustrious jurists and constitutionalists, the Presidency considers that it wants to propose to the Assembly, and then put to the vote, the request for postponement. I therefore ask everyone to reach their seats in order to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u20	Senator Quagliariello, do you still have any other requests? Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, only because of absolute transparency and my inability to understand, for which I apologise, would I like an additional explanation on the first point. Of course, I am satisfied with your decision, by which you allow this House to speak, because that was my wish. I would simply like to understand why, having opened the sitting with an agenda, this agenda cannot be reversed. I thought, and perhaps wrong, that such a request could intervene at any time by a senator. So, I apologize and an explanation supplement for clarity. Secondly, I would like to know whether or not the vote can be preceded by an intervention in favour of and against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u21	In the meantime, I would like to make it clear that, having said this, we shall now proceed to the examination of the article and then give you the floor, we have already begun the discussion of the agenda. So that's the motivation. After that, of course, a senator may speak for and against before the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u24	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the request made by Senator Quagliariello, to which I should like to add a clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Falanga, but we are discussing the suspensive issue. I would like to avoid confusion, because I did not accept the reversal of the agenda. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Let me make that clear, Mr President. The new fact is such when it is objectively new. The fact, however, that this fact is proposed and illustrated by a different subject, although authoritative, like President Cantone, does not represent any novelty. I personally believe that many voices in this House, equally authoritative, have said the same thing. But - alas - the majority and the Democratic Party, when President Canton speaks, see, eventually, a new fact in what is undoubtedly old. I have great respect and admiration for President Cantone but, if you like, you can come here to take the place of all of us and make the laws, leaving the highly authoritative and prestigious assignment you hold. I say we make the laws. Let us take advantage of our function and let us not delegate it to anyone. Senator Quagliariello, this is not a new fact just because President Cantone said so. It is an old fact because Palma, Caliendo and she have spoken about it and - believe me - the authority of President Canton is equal to that of all of us who sit in the Senate. For different but very different reasons, we will vote in favour of the request made by Senator Quagliariello. As far as we are concerned, however, the central point is another. The Democratic Party, after President Cantone gave an interview in the press, stated that it wanted to accept the remarks and wanted to change the provision in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies. Why should we make the House of Deputies do it and not do it ourselves? The critical remarks made by President Cantone are very correct, to which obedience must be shown. He said to be careful, because the measure, so extensive, by transforming exceptional measures into ordinary measures, risks being sanctioned for unconstitutionality by the Constitutional Court and thus we will lose an instrument, that of prevention measures, which has proved effective in the fight against organised crime. For these reasons and for the points made, which are not new at all because we have been talking about them for a while now, my Group will vote in favour of the request made by Senator Quagliariello. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u25	If they were not new facts, because things already said, then Senator Quagliariello's request would not be allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u27	Senator Quagliariello, I have already declared admissible the vote on your request. Do you have any other demands to make?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u28	[[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). I would like to speak in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u29	I've done it before. Interventions in favour or against would have been accepted in the event of a request to reverse the agenda. A request for suspension has been made and one Senator per Group may intervene on it. You may speak on behalf of your Group. Is that correct? I see Senator Calderoli nodding.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u30	Mr President, before I make a very brief speech on behalf of my Group, I would like to say that I believe that it is good that we can resolve certain issues, even of a regulatory nature, without any conflict, because you have allowed this House to speak and therefore you have accepted our request. I would simply like to make it clear, in the future, that I had asked the Offices to speak on the reversal of the agenda at the beginning of the sitting, so before you informed the House of the change to the agenda. I tell you this for the future: there is no complaint about it, nor about the offices that always cooperate very satisfactorily with us senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your clarification. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). I refer to Mr Falanga's intervention. I did not think that the new fact was merely the intervention in the press of President Cantone. In fact, it is difficult for a criminal law to have provoked so much criticism, both in terms of citizens' guarantees, as the Union of Criminal Chambers has pointed out, and in terms of the effectiveness of the repression of crime. The anti-mafia code we are discussing has succeeded in this miracle. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we have referred in particular to President Cantone's speech and to the critical remarks of prosecutor Roberti, it is because we believe that their role is institutional and must be kept in mind precisely because it is institutional. I agree with Senator Falanga that President Canton was, in spite of him, brought into play too often. Even one day I read an interview about the...Corriere dello Sport: he seemed to have become the coach of Naples, which worried me first as a fan and then also as a senator. In this case, however, his judgments have an important importance for the institutional role that canton holds, as well as Roberti's judgments have a particular importance for the institutional role he plays. I have to say, Mr President, that I was very impressed by the fact that President D'Ascola said that the debate in the Commission was very broad and that the hearings were not lacking, but it is not normal that no one thought to be a member of the National Anti-Corruption Authority. I would also remind you, for the benefit of my colleague Mr Falanga, that in addition to Canton there have been many other lawyers and, above all, many Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court. Giovanni Maria Flick points out that, making confusion between sanction and prevention (with what Luciano Violante, who is also fiercely critical of this text, effectively called "label fraud") [[Comments of Senators Fornaro, Cats and Richiuti]] We will be able to confuse even the Court of Strasbourg. President Flick tells us that so far supranational courts have found themselves judging exceptional instruments designed to counter exceptional phenomena, such as the crime of the mob: extending them to the ordinary means that sooner or later, a pronunciation could come from Strasbourg that would call into question the instrument itself. The issue also has paradoxical aspects. As the new prosecutor of the Republic of Messina, Maurizio De Lucia, for a long time prosecutor of the National Public Prosecutor Anti-Mafia, Mr President, and as Giovanni Fiandaca also explains, the current system of prevention already works not only for the Mafia, but also for the corrupt and the great evaders. We must be aware that the changes that we are discussing in the Senate are at risk of jeopardising the use of the instrument. The risk of inconstitutionality and incompatibility with international conventions is also pointed out by Cesare Mirabelli and Giuseppe Tesauro, Presidents emeritus of the Council, and by Sabino Cassese, former constitutional judge: everyone warns of the risk that the unlawful extension to the ordinary of an extraordinary instrument, such as that of prevention, delegitimis the very use of the instrument, causing irreparable damage to the fight against organized crime. In this context it seems almost mild the judgment of the usually scratching of Carlo Nordio, according to which this norm "will do absolutely nothing", like the many signal norms that in recent years - he explains - have increased confusion and reduced the guarantees without intimidating the corrupted ". As you can see, Mr President, and as Mr Falanga can also see, it is not only the judgment of Canton that has been taken into account: it is a concert in which lawyers, Presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court and those responsible for important institutions have participated. I would like to refer to Mr Caliendo's correct remarks: at a time when a speech from the other branch of Parliament is already being announced, at the end of the parliamentary term, I particularly ask my colleagues in the Democratic Party whether it is wiser to try to correct the provision here, so that the House of Deputies can then approve it and that there is no need for two readings. This, Mr President, is not because an extra reading is a scandal, as you have pointed out so many times, but because, given the time of the legislature in which the measure comes to pass, it would be possible that we would not get to the port. I believe that, in this case, a liability supplement could avoid that outcome. In this sense, I call for the measure to be returned to the Commission again, and not for obstructive purposes. [[Comments of Senators Fornarus, Cats and Richiuti),]] but to be able to lead him to port. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u31	Senator Malan, I can't give you the floor, because Senator Caliendo has already spoken to your group. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Caliendo proposed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Quagliariello made the proposal. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Quagliariello made another proposal. [[Comments by Senators Caliendo and Palma.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo, do we have to examine the Reports every time? You can't question everything that's going on. You spoke about Senator Quagliariello's proposal. [[Comments from Senators Malan, Caliendo and Palma.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I'm sorry, I don't give the floor to anyone but one per group. I can't give you the floor, because Senator Caliendo spoke about the suspensive request. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I call the Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We understand very well what the point of order is. I would like to move on to the vote on the suspensive proposal which has been put forward by your Group. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). [[Going to the center of the hemicycle.]] No, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, one of your group spoke. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure are clear. I put the request for suspension to the vote. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I appeal to you on a point of order. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't. I put the suspensive request of Senator Quagliariello to the vote. If anyone from another Group wants to speak, they can do so; the Senators of the Forza Italia Group cannot intervene. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You must give me the floor on a point of order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure are clear: one Senator can speak for the Group. [[Comments by Senators Caliendo and Palma.]] Senator Caliendo has already spoken. The motion for a suspension is now put to the vote. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Caliendo made another proposal, and I want to talk about Senator Caliendo's proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've all listened. Please, we are voting. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). No, Mr President, you are violating the Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm not violating any regulations. Senator Caliendo spoke about Forza Italia. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Do it for the Senate, respect the Rules of Procedure, don't trample him! [[Comments from the FI‐PdL XVII Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is It wasn't on the order of business at all. We can examine the Reports.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u34	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Caliendo made a speech on the order of business. Then Senator Quagliariello spoke. We didn't speak... president. No, Senator Quagliariello spoke earlier. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, he spoke earlier. But Senator Caliendo talked about something else. On the proposal of Senator Quagliariello there was no intervention of the Forza Italia Group. So I would ask you to give the floor to Senator Malan, so that we can speak on this proposal. This is absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure. We don't want to waste time. VOICES FROM THE GROUP Art.1-MDP. No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, we're not at the stadium. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). You must allow us to speak on Senator Quagliariello's proposal. Please give Senator Malan the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caliendo has already intervened. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I want to talk about Senator Caliendo's proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, Senator Malan, I'll give you three minutes to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u35	Mr President, I do not understand this regulation ad libitum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. Please, Senator Malan, illustrious. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I beg your pardon, Mr. President. Senator Caliendo made a different proposal. At this point, there is an intervention by a Senator per Group, including the Group to which Senator Caliendo belongs, which is irrelevant. And the surgery is ten minutes, as it was for Senator Quagliariello. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Malan, don't insist on this. I gave you the floor to comment on Senator Quagliariello's proposal. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, you said that Senator Quagliariello's proposal could not be put to the vote. I'm not talking about Senator Quagliariello's proposal; I'm talking about Senator Caliendo's request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's the same as Senator Quagliariello's. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). No! Mr President, I think you did not accept Senator Quagliariello's proposal to the vote while you admitted Senator Caliendo's proposal. They can't be identical. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, comment on what you want, but I remind you that you have three minutes. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this is not a talk show or commentary. This is the Senate of the Republic, of which you are the prestigious leading figure who represents him and must enforce the Rules of Procedure, which states that on the proposal of Senator Caliendo, which you admitted, each Group can speak for ten minutes. In his second speech, Senator Quagliariello spoke for ten minutes and I would like to speak for the same time. I can talk about myself, but if I can explain myself. The new fact - I say this about what Senator Falanga said - is not what Dr Cantone said, but what the President of the Democratic Party later said (which has a majority relative to both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies), who, not contradicted by anyone (not even by the leaders of the two branches of Parliament), has argued that Dr Cantone's statements will be taken into account in the Chamber of Deputies... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If he gets there, to the House. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Of course, I think it's very close to getting to the House. I would like to stress that, on the subject, the novelty is what President Orfini said and that when Dr. Cantone speaks in that capacity - it is not a matter of having sympathy or dislike for this authoritative character - it is the national anti-corruption authority and not a more or less sympathetic gentleman. Therefore, since the measure concerns the fight against organised crime (which has then been added to corruption and related phenomena), I would say that your opinion is to be taken into account extensively. President Orfini spoke of the Chamber of Deputies. But here we are in the Senate and I do not think it is decent for this institution to dismiss the measure as it is (if we remain in this House, the changes are practically null, as only Article 36 remains to be voted). The measure must be properly examined in the Commission, in the light of the debate that has taken place. I believe that this would also avoid making proposals for acrobatic coordination, which are actually amendments, but we will talk about this later. So we can do a quick and effective job, avoiding a further step. In fact, it seems obvious to me that to consider means to change, because otherwise to consider to have a chat... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I invite you to conclude. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I think I've been talking for five minutes. If taking into consideration means doing something serious, it means that the measure goes to the Chamber of Deputies, and then back to the Senate. I'm starting to ask myself a question. Do you want to approve this measure, or, with the appearance of adopting the hard line, do you want to lower it? I've heard that from some and I'm worried. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I invited you to conclude. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have been speaking for no more than six minutes and the Rules of Procedure provide for a period of ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I invited you to conclude. Don't make me take the word off. If he's been talking for six minutes, I've already given him three. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I remind you, Mr. President... Senator Malan, I invite you to conclude again. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I will conclude in 30 seconds, but I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure prevent an intervention from being interrupted. I shall now end my speech for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, which I hope you will agree with.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u36	I put to the vote the suspensive question, lately put by Senator Quagliariello. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 36, on which an entirely deleted amendment has been tabled, which is to be described, on which the Budget Committee has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. This amendment is therefore impervious. In any case, even if support for electronic voting is requested, pursuant to Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, as the only amendment tabled, the vote will be taken on the maintenance of Rule 36.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u39	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask a question. On Rule 36, in addition to the amendment tabled by Senator Caliendo, there is a reference, which is not understandable, in the proposal for co-ordination of the rapporteurs, to the fact that the rapporteurs themselves do not understand. I wanted to ask you how we intend to proceed, because I want to intervene not so much and not only on the deletion of Article 36, but on certain issues relating to the financial coverage of Article 36, which are located in their own place in the next coordinating proposal, as you can safely see. I would therefore ask you to tell me when it is preferable to speak, because I would like to make a speech and at the same time ask some questions to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u40	The Presidency is here to answer questions as well. Senator Caliendo's amendment 36,100 is impervious. If anyone asks for the vote, because it is the only amendment, we will vote for the retention of the article. Is that clear? We are on this point. Does anyone ask for the vote on Amendment No 36.100? Senator D'Anna asks for the vote. The vote will therefore be on the retention of the Rule. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). President, I asked you to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I get it, but Senator Azzollini is talking, and he posed a problem and I clarified the point of the debate. We are on Amendment No 36.100. Senator Azzollini, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u41	Mr President, does this mean that I will be able to take the floor on Rule 36 even when you first and then put the vote on Rule 36, which is amended by the proposal for co-ordination of the rapporteurs? Will there then be an opportunity to speak on this article?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u42	Before you vote on the continuation of Rule 36 you will have the opportunity to speak. The vote on the coordinating proposal will be later. Do you want to speak on the coordination proposal or on Article 36? Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Maybe I wasn't clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You spoke of a proposal for coordination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u43	Then I speak to you in substantial terms, so that you can reassure me. Since Article 36, whatever the outcome of the Caliendo amendment, will then be put to the vote, it can be argued later that we cannot speak on Article 36 because we will have already voted on it. On the other hand, I want to talk about that article because in the proposal for coordination, which you are telling me later, we are talking about Article 36. I do not want to be faced with a foreclosure; therefore, I ask you to tell me when I can speak extensively on the question of cover referred to in Article 36.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u44	If you want to talk about Article 36, you can do so now. If you wish to speak on the proposal for coordination, you can speak later, but we must proceed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to the vote on the retention of the Rule. Mr President, I would like to speak about the deletion of Senator Caliendo's amendment whenever possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But he's only going to do one surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u47	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, because, as you will surely remember, paragraph 9 of Rule 100 states 'On all the amendments tabled to the same Article' - the amendment is present because it is deleted, even if we then vote on the retention of the Rule itself - 'there is only one debate, which begins with the presentation by the authors and in the course of which each Senator can intervene only once, even if he is proposing amendments'. This certifies that any senator, even if he does not table amendments, can intervene on the article, so not just one per group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is No one questioned this, Senator Calderoli, nor has he foreclosed anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u50	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would not like to be interrupted, because it is already difficult to get involved in the development of the draft law in our examination. Just to give a couple of examples, President D'Ascola said that no one has ever posed the problem of crimes against the public administration. I asked for the split vote, deleting that part in the Commission, and there was a vote against. Then there was a change in the House. Mr President, I would like you to listen, for one reason only. What did this disorganization lead to? You have already read that Mr Bindi, President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, has interpreted the intervention of amending the rapporteurs, of extending Article 416 of the Criminal Code, as if it were 416- bis, so much so that he says that this is something that the case law has already done, only that he has not understood that my amendment has not been approved, otherwise everything would be consistent in his speech. To come to the debate, 36 is one of the coordinating articles prepared by the rapporteurs, on input - indeed, on writing - of the Budget Commission. This too - like all the others - was not there, so we did not have the opportunity to table amendments. In addition, the rapporteurs themselves, after the coordination proposal, which took note of what the Budget Commission said, realized that they had stumbled into error, so they made further coordination intervention with errors. When the Budgetary Commission writes the following Article is added, it refers to Article 36, as it is written. Then, in relation to the amendments approved by the Commission, to Article 25, paragraph 4-a, and to Article 113-a, to delete paragraph 2, to replace paragraph 3 - things that the rapporteurs have done - and to delete paragraph 6, which has instead been modified by the rapporteurs, but maintaining the same logic: in paragraph 4, in fact, there is an additional expenditure as regards the ten units that can be assumed for 2018 at a fixed time. Therefore, it is contrary to the invariance of the budget, and we voted. You guys talk to me about what we voted for? We voted on absurd things: the rapporteurs themselves today present another proposal for coordination, in which they say that in Article 27 of Law No 159 of 2011 paragraphs 2-a and 2-b should be deleted. Please, you have voted on this article with paragraphs 2-a and 2-b. This morning, because we had these proposals for coordination just an hour ago, I went to read them and I noticed that neither paragraph 2-a nor paragraph 2-b exist and we voted on them in this House. Is there any reason at all? I wonder how it can be said that there is coverage, since paragraph 3 of article 113- bis of Legislative Decree no. 159 of 2011 states that the staff referred to in paragraph 1 retains the legal status and that all are paid with the money that will be attributed to the Agency by the administrations of origin. However, Mr President, the ancillary treatment of these persons remains the responsibility of the Agency. After that there is a clear contrast for us and I do not speak of us as opposition, but of us parliamentarians, senators, of those who are careful and do not vote according to the order of stables, but who want to make a serious contribution. I ask you a question: have we voted on an article that does not exist, paragraphs that do not exist, a coordination that becomes a new amendment; do you realize that we are approving a draft law that determines a series of misunderstandings, including what President Bindi referred to? I would therefore ask you to have a moment of calm, because I do not want to obstruct [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator Fornaro.]] No, Senator Moscardelli, it's not obstructionism.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u51	Senator Caliendo, address the assembly as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u52	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you should take back Senator Moscardelli who interrupted me and not me, but I am moving on. In Article 36 there is this new proposal for coordination, which you say to me, we must vote later, which proposes that the following words be inserted in paragraph 1: "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1, and 32" I have a question. Article 27 (1) has been amended by an amendment of mine voted unanimously, reducing the number of agencies from six to two. Does this proposal for coordination, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 27 (1), involve additional expenditure compared to what was written afterwards? It's not like that. There is a reduction in expenditure. In my view, the matter cannot be reduced to the vote on Rule 36, nor can the problems be resolved with silence, because we are witnessing a legislative process spoiled in everything and for everything. We have made coordinations that have not had the opportunity to be amended, there are wrong proposals for coordination, as the rapporteurs themselves recognize today, after we have pointed this out in the preliminary question, and we are preparing for further coordination even where there is a reduction in expenditure rather than an increase. What do the words mean: "Save as provided for in Article 27, paragraph 1"? If you explain it to me then we can discuss it, because I want to understand first.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u55	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, it is true that I have the impression that the majority is obstructing this measure. In fact, if we want to define it correctly I would like to say - and I also address Senator Bianconi who accused the Senators of the Justice Commission and the Senate of having noticed at the last moment of these problems - that on 26 April 2017, in the Justice Commission, Senators Caliendo and Giovanardi asked for the deletion of Article 1, asking what was involved in the fight against corruption with the fight against the Mafia, extending - as has been done - all the instruments of the confisches from anti-Mafia crimes to all those of the public administration. We have therefore raised the problem and strongly denounced it in the Commission. Not only did the majority reject our amendment, but we also had to wait for the measure to arrive in the Chamber, in order to know the amendment of the rapporteur and the Government to Article 1. Only in this House have we heard the news that it took associative crime to trigger such crimes. We have proposed sub-amendments, but our proposals - tabled to remove crimes against the public administration - have all been regularly rejected. Mr President, since when things are done in the Senate, not only the news, but also the history of Parliament, it is not possible to tell the story of this measure by telling lies to the press and colleagues. Since April, in fact, the issue, which is poisoning the debate on the fight against the Mafia (as stated yesterday), suggests very refined minds who want to overwhelm anti-mafia legislation through an enlargement mechanism that makes no sense. The fight against the Mafia is therefore in real danger and the warnings that come from authoritative characters go in this direction: you risk overwhelming an instrument that has passed the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court, of the Court of Cassation and also of Europe because, extending it also to individual associative crimes, without any of the prerequisites required by the fight against the Mafia, you risk dropping the entire armament. I therefore agree with Senator Caliendo's words. With regard to obstruction, I would remind you that the rest of the measure, in the fight against the Mafia, is approved by the whole of Parliament. That's the amazing thing. A measure could be fired in the fight against the mafia, rationalization of the confisks and the use of property confiscated from the mafia in the best way has the consent of all. What are we poisoning ourselves about? On an aspect that has neither head nor tail, such as the issue of corruption in a clumsy way, denounced since April and that has been attempted to correct with amendments on which the majority, by obstructing itself, even comes to say that the House will amend it. If we lose a few minutes it is to try to convince you of a madness that, from the rational point of view, has neither head nor tail. It is simply a matter of correcting the things that absolutely do not go and doing so without saying that we only noticed it at the last second, because we have noticed it for three months; the problem is that the majority did not notice it. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u58	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise on Amendment No 36,100 to say that it is quite clear that the article in reference is denied by the text of the law. That is why I referred to coordination, which we will discuss when possible. Mr President, Article 36 says that the implementation of this law must not result in any new or increased burden on public finances. I choose, at random, two commas that flatly deny this assumption. The delegation, referred to in Article 32, shall be effected, as the text of the law states, within the limit of EUR 20 million for the three-year period 2018-2020 and shall also indicate the sources of coverage. This means that, while the text of Article 36 states that there must be no burden, there are burdens, so as is the text of this article, Mr President, it is not good. Of course, this also applies to other articles, such as Article 27, in which a charge of EUR 850,000 per year is quantified with the corresponding cover. Mr President, it is not possible for you to accept this article as it stands. I would kindly ask you for some attention, because I am making a formal request to you: I am arguing that this article, as it is formulated, at this point in the process of the law, really does not work - and I therefore ask you to make it known to the Presidency of the Budget Commission - because it states that this measure must not impose burdens, whereas the measure states that there are burdens. As it is, this article cannot go because it is denied and in this sense it is contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. We will then, if necessary, be critical of politics, but at the moment we are talking about something else and I am putting the formal question to you: at this point in the process there is an article which states that this measure does not impose any burdens and instead the burdens are there (I have just mentioned two articles which provide for charges). I am sorry, but this article cannot go and it is your job to oversee this immediate effect. Also in paragraph four of Article 32, of which we will then talk, there is a burden with the relative coverage and instead the rule states the opposite. Mr President, I would ask you to verify this obvious contradiction between the text of the cover rule and the provisions contained in the law. I would like to ask you this first, and I will continue my speech after your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u59	It is clear that Article 36 contains a forecast which is then included in the coordinating proposal. When we look at the coordination proposal - and I think we can - we will look at this point. [[Senator Caliendo's comments.]] There are the rapporteurs in this House, who I believe are listening to the debate, but the President cannot delete proposals for coordination: the President can only regulate the debate and then put the various proposals to the vote. You cannot answer the questions that the speakers and the government have to answer. Senator Azzollini, if you wish to conclude your speech, which - I remind you - is on the amendment tabled by Senator Caliendo. When the time comes, he will speak on the proposal for coordination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u60	Thank you for your answer. That is why, as you noted earlier, I had placed it in conjunction with Article 36. I apologize if we speak, Mr President - far from me the intention of interrupting you - but as you can see, these are important issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u61	The problems must be put to the rapporteurs and the government and not to the President, who does not have the power to eliminate what has been proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u62	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Then we'll put them on them. However, I would like to put this question to you, Mr President: is it possible for the coordination to discuss cover-ups? I believe that there is another more appropriate instrument for this than the proposal for coordination. Mr President, I would ask you to suspend this sitting and give the rapporteurs their own power to table a corrective amendment to Rule 36. Coordination, Mr President, is something that concerns a better definition of the work, not a cover, which is not in the article and is then surreptitiously introduced through a proposal for coordination. No, Mr President, that is a genuine amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand very well, but I can't solve this. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Then ask the rapporteurs. I would ask you formally to suspend the sitting for ten minutes, in order to speak with the rapporteurs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, let us continue with the requests for intervention, which I see to be numerous. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). But I would like to receive an answer from the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u65	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, please do not diminish your power and your ability to intervene, which you have also shown well before the discussion. Mr President, I would like to remind myself and also as an aid to the rapporteurs of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure: before the final vote on a draft law, the President, the representative of the Government or each senator can draw the attention of the Senate to the adjustments in form and the changes in coordination that appear appropriate, as well as to those provisions already approved that seem to be in conflict with each other or irreconcilable with the purpose of the law, and formulate the consequent proposals. Mr President, it is clear that a proposal for coordination does not correspond to what is written on the distributed sheet. In fact, the provisions of Article 36 contained in the coordinating proposal constitute a genuine amendment: To paragraph 1, please quote the following words: "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1, and 32" and "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1 and 32." It is easy to go through the draft law and the amendments and to see that Article 27 corresponds exactly to a proposal for expenditure, as provided for in the measure itself. This proposal for coordination has all the characteristics of a genuine amendment, as I said. "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1, and 32" means that the implementation of this law must not result in new or higher charges for public finance except as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1, and 32. Mr President, this is an amendment which has an economic impact on the entire bill. And President Tonini doesn't say anything? And the 5th Budget Commission says nothing? I understand that the rapporteurs can be distracted and, grazing around the Chamber, they no longer find themselves in the measure, because they have lost their sense; but the President of the Budget Commission, always so punctual and attentive, who also shows willingness, before President Renzi pensions having exceeded the four legislatures, give his opinion. What else are we doing here? [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u66	A moment of attention, ladies and gentlemen, because the issue that has been raised is not a pilgrim, absolutely (although I should not have to give a judgment). I would like to ask the rapporteurs how they intend to address this issue. It has been noted that, compared to Article 36, which does not impose any burden on public finance, there are, instead, rules that have provided for public finance charges. The coordinating proposal seems to be an amendment and, since it represents a substantial change, as is proposed, I would like to know whether the rapporteurs intend to assess its transformation into an amendment, for the part: Art. 2 (a) (b) (i) (i) In paragraph 1, enter the following words: "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1, and 32" and "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1 and 32." We would vote, as an amendment, before Article 36, on this substantial amendment which is not simply a coordination between texts. That is the request and I have tried to illustrate it. The rapporteurs shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u67	Mr President, I do not agree that this is a substantial change. [[Ironic applause from Senators Calderoli and Candiani]] This is for the simple reason that this is a clarification which harmonises the text, since the expenditure forecasts are in the first paragraph of Article 27 and in Article 32. This is simply a formulation that avoids interpretational misunderstandings with respect to the text, because the expenditure forecast is already in the two paragraphs. Therefore, it is not a substantial change but a typical coordination rule that, in order to prevent the measure from having an internal contradiction, "sewn" Article 36 with these two references. Article 36 is the final rule of closure on the lack of expenditure; so that there is no contradiction with what has been said earlier, this fact is clarified by coordination, by an inscribed linking the text as a whole. It is not a substantial change.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u68	The problem is this, Senator Pagliari. We have not yet voted on Article 36 and the issue was raised by Senator Azzollini before the vote on Article 36. Therefore, this issue is substantial. If we had already voted on Article 36, that would be the only way. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] However, since we have not yet voted on it, I would ask you to consider tabling an amendment so that we can vote on it and adjust what is otherwise irresolvable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to have a different view and to think that we should not have a debate on this amendment here, when we vote on a deleterious amendment. The point, however, seems to me to be the following. If we turn this proposal into an amendment, we will open the deadline for submission of sub-amendments and we will no longer get to the bottom of it. [[Live comments from FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut and FL (Id-PL, PLI) Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u70	Senator Pagliari, I think the House wants to help adopt a valid measure. I do not think he will want to take advantage of this passage to reopen the whole debate. The purpose of the request is that a substantial change, which introduces charges, may be placed at the appropriate place before the vote on Rule 36. (PD). But it is not a substantial change, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't think this is a way to take advantage.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u73	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would like to reassure you that we will not take advantage of this request to call for unmanageable times. However, I would like us all to reflect on one point. We cannot put it that way, because either the question raised by Mr Azzollini raises a regulatory problem, and then our Rules of Procedure must be respected, or it does not. But you can't tell colleagues: If you do not take advantage of it, then we respect the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we put it under our feet. I say this also for the future. That is precisely what the intervention meant, and that is unacceptable. Now we can give all the assurances we want, but we would simply like to make some thought about a measure that is born badly and is coming to a worse port. This way of putting things, because there will be other moments and other issues, is not acceptable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, to speak again, because that was clearly not the point of his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u74	Mr President, I would like to reiterate to Senator Quagliariello that my position is that the engraving is not a substantial change because it is simply a coordination of the text as a whole in order to avoid, in the light of the criteria of interpretation, a doubt can arise when the text is interpreted. That engraving, from the regulatory point of view, adds nothing to what has already been voted on, and it is simply a reminder that, given the overall invariance of the measure, it contains two provisions providing for expenditure. This is not a substantial change and my reason for opposition is precisely this: there is no substantial change. After that, my reasoning was simply as follows: I do not make it a question of the impossibility of dialogue but this is my position. In the face of interpretations such as that of Senator Quagliariello, I repeat: this is my position and I am not prepared to turn the proposal into an amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u77	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for saying that, with a possibly better cause, he said clearly and roundly that he did not table an amendment because otherwise the time for the sub-amendments would have opened. I take note of your honesty - or dishonesty, depends on the side on which you look at it - but it is clear that this has nothing to do with coordination. This should in fact harmonise provisions that have already been adopted which seem to be at odds with each other. However, our examination is not a contrast of merit, but is related to a cover. You can't say: This measure does not lead to higher public finance charges except for points where it is spent. It would be a mockery and, as Senator Candiani rightly reminded us, I believe that in relation to this dichotomy, the President of the Budget Commission must tell us how to move forward. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I make a suggestion, Senator Pagliari: if you do not want to table an amendment but you want a clean text, when you vote on Article 36 you will have to vote against it, since it says the opposite of what is written in a previous rule that has already been voted and cannot be changed, not even with final coordination. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The article is voted and rejected because the measure provides for costs in some articles and therefore it makes no sense to say that it costs nothing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u80	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). President, have I asked to speak before, do you do this to me on purpose? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, you asked to speak on the order of business. We are now concluding the debate on another subject. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to talk about this earlier. You cannot give the word according to your sympathy and dislike. Try to respect your role. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, you don't give me feelings that don't belong to me. I call Senator Mario Ferrara. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, allow me to make a small remark which wants to be a completely non-controversial suggestion: Senator Pagliari, in addition to being a senator, is also a good lawyer, so he defends himself, while in this House, as in all parliaments, it is the minority that should be defended by the Presidency. The subject to which I would like to refer is the last statement made by the rapporteur, namely that the scope of the proposal for our examination is formal and not substantial. In these cases we get confused, the debate gets confused and we begin to defend our positions. I would like to remind myself and the House of the oldest and most famous definition of substance, so that one thing is substantial and not formal: the substance is the essential essence of one thing, what makes one thing what is and is not something else. If instead of Aristotle we would like to remind a philosopher of the right closer to the rapporteurs, Senator Ceccanti, in his text of parliamentary law, recalls that coordination, which takes place after the explanations of vote and before the final vote, has the meaning of formal coordination. Given that the request that both rapporteurs make is to add something, namely to change the scope of Article 36, there is no doubt (so we are talking about something that does not exist) that the scope is substantial and not formal. Mr President, you are extremely respectful of the various positions, but I would remind you that the admissibility of the amendments does not stem from your desire to facilitate the rapporteurs in order to avoid further problems. If the concern is that of possible delays, I would like to point out to you that on such a proposal we could allow a maximum time of one hour to subemend (but also of half an hour, as shown by various precedents), that with this debate we have consumed much more than the time that would have been necessary to subemend. Given that it is the Presidency that has to decide on the formal or substantive scope, please, Mr President, you who have authority and have demonstrated at other times that you assume the responsibilities associated with that authority, ask the rapporteurs to table the amendment (if different, you should take further decisions) and put an end to this debate. This is also an unfortunate debate, because it leads you to have to manage a difficult situation, it leads to the extremes of the debate in this House and, if you will allow me, it could also determine in the future a certain willingness of the critics, who are remarkable towards Parliament, to say that we are interested in issues at this point only formal and procedural, even substantial. I renew the proposal: put an end to the debate and invite the rapporteur to table the amendment. At this point we solved the issue and also saved time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think I've done it before. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). No, ma'am, you asked. You don't have to ask, you have to decide.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u83	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it seems almost as if every time I ask you to speak there is distraction, probably because you imagine that my speech may be against someone. In this case, Mr President, I have to tell you the truth, my position is absolutely identical to what I think is yours. I really can't understand what's going on. We have a problem with Article 36 and you, in reply to Senator Azzollini, said that we must also examine Article 36 in the light of the proposal for coordination. But coordination follows Article 36, so we will vote to keep the article alive with reference to Senator Caliendo's speech. I imagine that you have shared the concerns that have been expressed to you in this House about the nature of the formal coordination proposed by the rapporteurs. It is true that, repeatedly, it has invited the rapporteurs - as I understand it - to take a different initiative. In my view, we are now faced with a stalemate, because when the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, says that he sees it this way and is not at all willing to change his mind and present an amendment, you, Mr President, must intervene at that point. In fact, at a time when you share the concerns we have about the nature of formal coordination, we can no longer go on, unless, of course, the rapporteurs are convinced of the transformation of that proposal for formal coordination into an amendment. I say more, Mr President: I understand that sticking to your ideas is a matter of consistency - although not always: sometimes it means something else - but we are an institution and we need prudence and moderation. As we are completing the legislative procedure with regard to a bill of extreme sensitivity, we would like caution, in the face of the serious doubts that have been raised, for an amendment to be tabled, on which the Budget Commission will be given its opinion. Yes, Senator Pagliari: the season of sub-amendments will open. But how long will it last? Will it last half an hour? If it lasted half an hour, it would always, surely, be a less time than what we could use to carry out a series of chain interventions, one after the other. The reasoning to be made in this House is to try to respect the rules of the legislative procedure and not to stick to one's own ideas. In conclusion, Mr President, since I believe that the Presidency plays a very different role than that of the minute distributor, I believe that your authoritative intervention can overcome this stalemate. I would therefore ask you to suspend the sitting for five minutes, no more: the time required to allow the majority to give a speech within it on the problem posed and on the position put forward by the rapporteurs and, consequently, if it is transformed into an amendment, to follow the normal path. [[Applause from Senator Romani Paolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u85	Senator Gasparri, I remind you that Senator Palma has already intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u86	What are you going to do about it? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order for one minute. Mr President, take the floor when you think. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur to reflect on the fact that President Grasso has been very explicit and has made it clear that coordination, which is a final technical fact, cannot solve a problem of substance, which requires an amendment. Therefore, I believe that the rapporteur, obstinating in this way, creates a problem and I believe that those who make disputes do not belong to the party of the mobsters who do not want the anti-mafia code, otherwise, paradoxically, the President of the Senate, who in the fight against the mob has more titles than many of us in this House, would also be hired in this party contrary to that code. Mr President, it is true that at this stage the amendments can be tabled by the Government or by the rapporteur, but Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5, states that the President may, however, allow the tabling of amendments in cases such as the one before our examination when it is appropriate. As the President - let me say this - has called for an amendment, because he has made it clear to my colleagues that the situation cannot be resolved by coordinating the text, if you intend to put the solution of the problem to the Presidency in half an hour's time, with the coordination of the text, we will have a thousand reasons to challenge the procedure, in accordance with this intervention. Mr President, make use of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure: we are the first to be able to table the amendment, which the rapporteur should wisely submit, in accordance with his repeated and convincing appeal. It does not solve the problem of coordination: an amendment is needed. Otherwise we'll lengthen the time later.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u87	I would like to hear the President of the Budget Commission, in order to have a final word on these problems and to clarify how we should look at this proposal for coordination, including for tax purposes, since the subject has moved on to this and before voting on Article 36, which would be amended by the coordinating proposal. Please, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u88	Mr President, the Budget Committee has been called into question by a number of colleagues and now by you too. Now, from the budgetary Commission's point of view, what it notes is that the two articles, as amended, involving charges have been approved regularly, so they have had the clearance from the budget Commission, because the burdens have been quantified and covered. So Senator Pagliari is right when he says that from the substantive point of view everything is okay. There is, however, a clear problem, namely the embarrassment of the House to have to vote now on an Rule 36 which provides for an invariance clause. Attention, Senator Calderoli, this clause of invariance remains necessary, despite the approval of those two articles, because it concerns all the rest of the law. This certainly involves a procedural embarrassment, because this Article 36 will be perfect only when the coordination rule is adopted. Then, here, the President of the Budget Commission, who is already accused of overflowing - also thanks to the scale - with respect to his responsibilities, stops, because this is an issue that concerns the House's procedure. It is clear that for the 5th Commission the coordination rule is a condition of null and void Article 36. After that, how this condition should be remedied, if with a previous amendment or with a subsequent vote, the important thing is that the text is finally so. Of course, this is a requirement for the 5th Commission. Then there is the resource of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure and there is the resource of an amendment of the 5th Commission; on this I refer to the President, he will decide. Of course, from the substantive point of view, the rule is covered, while from the formal point of view there is a procedural embarrassment, from which I believe we can come out with some common sense from all, the one to which the President referred to the House. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr Tonini, for clarifying these issues and also for the possible availability of an amendment by the Budget Commission, given the power of the President, pursuant to Rule 100, to exceptionally accept amendments which are considered absolutely necessary. If there is this willingness, which has been revealed by the President of the Budget Commission, we can evaluate it. He asked the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u90	Mr President, I believe that Senator Tonini has made the situation quite clear. At this point, for reasons of loyal cooperation, in relation exclusively to what Senator Tonini said, we agree to table the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u91	The matter seems to me to be closed. [[Senator Azzollini points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Azzollini, the matter is closed. I would like to make it clear that, as an amendment accepted under Rule 100 by the President, who considers it absolutely necessary, there should be no sub-amendments, so they are not admissible. [[Comments from LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] Amendment of the 5th Commission required. It is an amendment tabled to meet a budgetary need which has been commendably represented by everyone and which can be resolved in this way. Senator Azzolini, it seems to me that the matter you put has been resolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u94	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like briefly to thank you and President Tonini and disagree with Senator Pagliari: in order not to create precedents, I would like to say that it is not because President Tonini said so. President Tonini said something fundamental, which is why the amendment is needed: for the Budget Commission this is a condition under Article 81 of the Constitution and the amendment must be voted before the article. It seems to me that this is logical, and that is what you, Mr President, and Mr Tonini have appreciated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u95	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 36.100. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u97	For what, Senator Volpi? VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, you are then angry, but I have been asking for the floor for half an hour, as the Secretary Senators have pointed out to you. You want to explain to me why you never give me the floor? Give me an explanation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, I haven't been notified. VOLPI (LN-Aut). If you like, since today you also called the "pisses trial" at 13:00, I'll explain it to you in the trial because people get angry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, if you want to intervene, do it. You have the right to do so. VOLPI (LN-Aut). At least have some respect. There are fellow Secretaries who have pointed out to you more than once that I was asking for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, do you have to tell me what you want to do? VOLPI (LN-Aut). Now? After you've done everything, you ask me what I want to do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When do I have to ask? VOLPI (LN-Aut). Now? What do I tell you? You are the President of this House, not me. You must respect me as a senator. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, let's not take any more arguments. Please, I gave you the floor. What do you want to intervene on? VOLPI (LN-Aut). The order of business. I ask you to give me the floor when I ask you. Mr President, you think I wanted to agree with you. That sounds weird to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it doesn't seem weird, thank you. VOLPI (LN-Aut). You took note today that we were following an incorrect legislative process. The thing that surprises me is that he was told by the rapporteur that he did not care about his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u98	[[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u99	Mine wasn't an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u100	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I'm talking. Allow me to finish without interruption. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Volpi. VOLPI (LN-Aut). He mocks the House by saying: "Dear President, you are right..." [[Senator Fornaro's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u101	Senator Volpi, please, I won't interrupt you, but you stick to the merit. We have solved a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u102	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I'm talking to you. Would you like to listen to me for a minute, or take my word off, as usual? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not, Senator Volpi. Come on in. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, is it normal for you to say in this House that there is no amendment not to open a further stage of amendment? Do you think that this measure, which deals with matters the importance of which is shared, can we say such things? Mr President, as I respect other Members, I would ask you to respect the usual foxes, because these things are not good. Mine could have been a contribution, but after half an hour, it's not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, thank you for your contribution. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I don't thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u105	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like a moment of attention from the President of the Budget Commission, who has correctly given his interpretation of the so-called coordination amendments, let us call them that again. I have noted, however, that this article, as it says, is not in accordance with the wishes of the budget committee. The Committee on Budgets has requested that the words of Article 36 be the same, but had also laid down certain conditions for amendments which had already been voted on in the Commission and, in particular, that Amendment 25.26 be deleted, paragraph 6 of Article 113-bis (now paragraph 4), which read as follows: Up to 31 December 2018, the Director of the Agency, within the limits of the organic envelope, referred to in paragraph 1 and existing financial availabilities, is authorised to conclude fixed-term contracts, in order to ensure the full operation of the Agency. In accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, this paragraph should be deleted. The paragraph has been rewritten with a coordinating amendment for the House by the rapporteurs and I ask you to read it, because it is the same thing: The Director of the Agency, after a resolution of the Governing Council, may conclude, within the limits of the existing financial availability and in compliance with Article 7 (6) of Legislative Decree No 165 of 30 March 2001, and subsequent amendments, fixed-term contracts for the assignment of tasks of particular specialization in this matter... That is the same amendment. We have taken account of the Budget Commission for all the other coordination amendments, for which what the Budget Commission has written has been copied; for this reason they have not copied: they have pretended to change the words, but in fact they have kept the same content. The Budget Committee had unanimously delivered an opinion under Article 81. Mr President, that is the reason why I believe that we should refer the matter back to the Budget Committee for a new assessment or this is an article which must be rejected as it is written because, otherwise, we are really making fun of ourselves: we use Article 81 to be able to play according to the conveniences. [[Applause from Senators Bernini and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u108	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, you have anticipated that if an amendment were tabled by the rapporteurs, it would not allow time for sub-amendments. I, in fact, have not found this prediction in the Rules of Procedure. She pointed out that, as an amendment was necessary, the time limit for sub-amendments was not allowed. Mr President, I ask you to know the rule that allows you not to give us the opportunity to subjugate the rapporteur's amendment. If it is your assessment of the incisiveness and importance of the rapporteur's amendment, it is fine, but it is not enough and I do not think it is enough to prevent us from exercising our role and possibly subemberating what the rapporteurs here will shortly propose with the amendment that they will present.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u111	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will also help you answer Mr Falanga. If the amendment is mandatory for the Budget Commission, the President rightly does not allow time for sub-amendments. At this point, however, I would like to understand - and I believe the whole House wants this - whether the amendment is signed by the rapporteurs and, in this case, what the text of the amendment is. If it relates exclusively to the exclusion of Articles 27 and 32 from the non-honerosity of the law, then the amendment is mandatory and is not subeminable. If, instead, as I seem to have understood from Senator Caliendo, you take advantage of the talk of covers to introduce something else, that part must be amendable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u112	I have read Amendment No 36,200. Since there are now two amendments to Rule 36, it does not apply to the vote on the retention of the article because there is no longer a single deleterious amendment. There are, in fact, Amendment 36,100 by Senators Caliendo and Palma, and Amendment 36,200 being discussed by the rapporteurs, which states: To paragraph 1, please quote the following words: "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1, and 32" and "Save as provided for in Articles 27, paragraph 1 and 32." It is therefore perfectly identical to part of the coordinating proposal. So this is the amendment that took the number of 36.200 and will be voted before Article 36. We are now at Amendment No 36,100, which is deleted, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u115	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr President, there is a violation of what was laid down as a condition under Article 81 of the Constitution: for this reason I tabled the deleterious amendment; we must resolve the problem, but we cannot do so with the coordination amendment. There is a violation of Article 81. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tonini was clear about this. We shall vote on your amendment. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). No, Mr President, on this there is an opinion of the Budget Commission which puts a condition under Article 81 and I would like it to remain in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u116	I would ask the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment No 36.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u117	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u118	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u119	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 36,100, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Palma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 36.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u122	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the part of Article 32 referred to in Amendment 32,600 is that relating to paragraph 4. First of all, I would like to ask the Presidency or the rapporteur whether, at the stage of the debate, paragraph 4 has remained the same as we read in Annex A, i.e. the text proposed by the 2nd Commission. I want to ask if it is the same at this point in the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Article 32 (4) relates to the implementation of the delegation. It does not appear to me that this article has been amended at present, except as regards the premises, but this amendment does not concern paragraph 4. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Why not? There is the question of Article 81 in the Commission. That is what is contrary to Article 81! Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). If this is the case, paragraph 4 - which I do not know why it has this wording - cannot be voted on as it stands, because it is clearly contradictory to Article 81. First I say why, then I quote the source and also ask the President of the Budget Commission. As you can see, there is no annual burden. It is said that there is a charge of 20 million for the three-year period: such coverage cannot be accepted because the coverage must be per year. There it is unclear whether it is 20 million per year or 20 million for which year and to what extent for each year. With this in mind, Mr President, the measure simply cannot go on, as precisely mentioned in the technical report of 13 June 2017 which explicitly provided for the amendment to be amended, referring only to interventions relating to social shock absorbers, specifying whether the EUR 20 million charged to the employment fund, which is intended to cover the same shock absorbers, relate to the three-year period as a whole and in this case the annual amount, i.e. each year of the three-year period, should have been indicated. (They refer then to the surveys of the Ministry). You understand that the coverage is either 20 million per year and in that case it would be 60 million, or, if it is 20 million, you have to indicate the amount per year. In this way, the coverage does not comply with Article 81 of the Constitution. Is that clear, Mr President? It must be changed, otherwise in the promulgation by the President of the Republic we would find ourselves in the embarrassing situation of a clear reference to Article 81 of the Constitution, all the more because the general accountant of the State (in this case the technical report was signed just him) already observed this point. There is, Mr President, what I think is called "Argumentum a contraris": I say this with great modesty, because you know that I do not deal with this. There is also another coverage, which I mentioned earlier, and it is the one in which the expenditure of 850,000 euros is authorised for each of the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. This fact is very clear: this cover cannot go. As you know, I do not seem to you to be obstructive in Article 81: the measure really has to go back and get the evaluation of the Budget Commission, because we have to understand whether the burden is 60 million, that is 20 million per year, or 20 million, and in this case what it amounts to a year. Otherwise, what is indicated in the 2017 and 2018 budget? I think that's what Senator Pagliari agrees with.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u123	We understand, Senator Azzolini. As we have an opinion from the 5th Commission on the non-obstacle text, I can only ask President Tonini if he confirms that in relation to his speech. In any case, it is an interpretative problem and the 20 million, being financial burdens, certainly could be referred to the three-year period. In these cases the interpretation is restrictive and non-expanding. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). In 2018 how much is there? I am referring to the principle of annuality of the budget. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have an opinion on the record. If it's confirmed, let's move on. Please, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u124	Mr President, Senator Azzollini has raised a new problem compared to what was discussed earlier. First, it was Article 36: in essence, it was a question of how it should be formulated in order to take account of the changes made during the examination of the measure. On the other hand, I must acknowledge that this objection is well founded and that, as it is formulated, the standard of coverage is not good; therefore, there is a need for an additional analysis. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u125	Senator Azzollini, what's your proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u126	Mr President, I must always thank both you and President Tonini. The road is unique. This part of the measure must be reported to the Commission and the rapporteurs must bring an amendment specifying the extent of the burden or the availability per year. We will have the opinion of the Ministry of Economy that will tell us if there are funds and then the measure will come back to the House with the new text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u127	Mr Tonini, can you give us some clarification on the procedure to be followed?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u128	Mr President, I believe that a suspension is necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u129	One hour of suspension may be sufficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u130	TONINI (PD). It is necessary to examine whether the rule is to be interpreted in the sense of 20 million per year or 20 million in the three-year period. It is a doubt that cannot be left. We call on the Commission because there is also a need for the Government's contribution to this issue: since it is the allocation of resources, the problem cannot be solved by the President in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u131	I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.32 a.m. and resumed at 12.36 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I would ask the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report on the Commission's determinations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u132	Mr President, the 5th Commission met and examined the problem posed by Senator Azzollini, who showed evidence to be a well-founded problem, given that the rule voted, by mistake of the 5th Commission in the ordinary drafting of the opinion, did not contain the annual quantification of the burden and its coverage. We have listened to the Government, which has proposed an annual articulation and therefore an amendment of this tenor: Article 32 (4) is replaced by the following: 4. The delegation referred to in this Article shall be implemented within the limit of EUR 7 million for each of the years 2018 and 2019 and within the limit of EUR 6 million for the year 2020. The relevant burden is borne by the Social Fund for Employment and Training referred to in Article 18 (1) (a) of Decree-Law No 185 of 29 November 2008, converted with amendments by Law No 2 of 28 January 2009. I am obliged to state, Mr President, that the Commission has taken note of this proposal from the Government but the Opposition Groups have requested that this proposal from the Government be accompanied by a technical report boiled down by the General Accounting Officer and this takes some time. At 2.30 p.m., when the Commission is reconvened, we shall have this technical report, at least so that it committed itself to acting as Deputy Minister Morando, who was present on behalf of the MEF. After that, I can only put you and the Presidency back on the procedure. I am also uncertain how far we can vote and exactly what we are voting in the budget committee. Certainly, this is a text that would heal the current situation and that will have (but still does not) the boiling of the General Accounting of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u133	Without wanting to anticipate decisions, Senator Tonini, having already voted on Article 32, I do not think that a new amendment can be tabled on it. This time, in my opinion, only a proposal for coordination of the text can really be used. That should be the procedure. However, we have time to reflect, since there is this request for a boiled technical report. Therefore, we conclude the afternoon session to resume work at 4.30 p.m., pending the outcome of this further completion of the process from a technical point of view. We will then decide on the procedure to be followed. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-851.ana.u134	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.40 a.m.
