ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-03595 on the rationalization of the headquarters of the Consulate General and the Italian Institute of Culture in Munich. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u4	Mr President, I would like to respond on the basis of a premise which is the basis of the case referred to by Senator Di Biagio. Rationalising the real estate of the State abroad is a priority that the law has assigned to Farnesina and that involves challenging objectives, which involve the MAECI in the achievement of the planned public finance balances and in the reduction of the debt and necessarily impose a revision of the policy on the state property. First, the 2016 Stability Act established that MAECI will pay at the entry of the State budget EUR 20 million for 2016 and EUR 10 million for 2017 and 2018 through real estate disposal operations that are no longer useful for institutional purposes. Subsequently, the 2017 budget law has increased these figures, establishing that the MAECI will have to achieve from the disposals real estate proceeds for 26 million euros for each of the years 2017 and 2018, while for 2019 a target of 16 million euros has been inserted. With the same provisions, the law also provided that, in the event of failure to achieve these objectives, the funds for a corresponding amount for the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation should be reduced. Since no one escapes the importance of cooperation for the policy of this Ministry, it is understood that the disposal of real estate has far wider consequences than one can imagine. Coming to the particular situation in Munich, I would first like to stress - and I would like to make it clear - that there has never been a limitation of the activities of the Consulate General or even a closure of the Consulate General. Moreover, it would not be possible in view of the great Italian community living there and the importance of the city of Munich and the Land, Bavaria in general, not only in the German context, but also in Europe. Another thing is the building that houses the Consulate General: it must be noted that it is not fully functional to institutional activities, because of its conditions and the need for structural interventions. For this reason, in 2015 the possibility was explored, with public notice, to barter with equalization, but the procedure was temporarily set aside, not having produced the results hoped for. However, it is still considered that it is in the public interest to dispose of the property, taking into account the market value of the building and institutional needs. I would like to reassure you that any sale will in any case be subject to the prior identification of suitable premises, just as or more functional, where to relocate the facilities. The choice of the new building will also take into account important aspects such as the centrality of the premises, its accessibility to the public, guarantees of safety at work and energy efficiency standards. As for the convenience of the real estate operation, for the valuation of the property has been done according to the provisions of law n. 183 of 2011, using local expertise in conditions of independence and absence of interest. In the same way, in case of purchase, it would be necessary to assess the investment in a new building for consular services, taking into account local specificities. Each hypothesis of alienation or barter of the building has taken into account and will take into account the market options, the need for investment interventions and the value of the property. There is therefore no possibility of damage to the treasury, but only benefits, both in terms of the more functional and modern allocation of offices, and of possible entry into the state budget. With regard to the property in Munich currently free, after an auction of 2016 gone desert, a procedure was carried out to manifest interest in the purchase, whose documents were available on the section "Transparent administration" of the Farnesina institutional site. The procedure for manifestation of interest was unsuccessful. It was therefore indicated to the venue to give maximum publicity to the sale and then proceed to private negotiation. Since then, some purchase bids submitted by potential buyers in line with the parameter indicated by the value estimate updated to 2016, of the amount of EUR 2,150,000 have been received and examined by the premises. Legal and financial ritual investigations are under way to verify the ability of potential buyers to contract without hindrance. The headquarters is therefore proceeding with the preparation of a draft purchase act to be submitted to the final audit of the Administration, as soon as the necessary requirements are completed. I conclude by saying that the news of a possible sale of the building hosting the Italian Institute of Culture in Munich is unfounded. There is no instruction of the Farnesina in this regard, especially since the manifestation of interest in buying the property of the Institute, expressed by a local private subject, has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u7	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Della Vedova for his report on a subject which is rarely the subject of parliamentary debate, despite the number of acts presented by both myself and Senator Micheloni. We could call it the "paradox" of Monaco, that is to say the choice to disband the structures of representation, remodulating its potential in a historical-social moment when the demand for services grows exponentially, also because - you have pointed out very well - of the results of Brexit. However, it would be appropriate to stress the other functional problems of the Consulate of Monaco which were part of my much more complex question, which are located beyond the disposal and make even more complex the hypothesis of real estate intervention on representation. The closure in 2014 of the Nuremberg counter, which served about 32,000 fellow countrymen, led to the absorption of the catchment area by Monaco, at which, however, a reduction of staff was also made. These elements have been reported several times over the years, so much so as to lead the undersigned along with others, like my colleague Micheloni, to suggest the identification of a consular interlocutor in the satellite cities of Monaco, first of all Nuremberg, where, among other things, there is a structure for free use for possible installations, in order to lighten the workload of Monaco and facilitate the thousands of citizens who from Nuremberg and neighbouring areas are forced to go to Monaco, covering even 300 kilometers, for a simple renewal of passport. Also because it turns out that at the moment it is about six months the waiting time for a passport renewal. Certainly, reading Farnesina's statistical yearbooks reveals a reduction in the services rendered by the consulate, almost as if it were a reduced demand. It is omitted, however, that the scaling is related to the reduction of staff units, which, reduced, certainly operates to a lesser extent. Therefore, linking the reasons for rationalization to those of the reduced number of consular services appears to be a false administration. The very fact that other forms of representation, such as honorary consulates and patrons, are then favoured in the territories subject to consular rationalization, shows that the administration is aware of the vacuum that consular closures are determining. The work carried out by the patrons certainly deserves respect and attention as a consolidated interface between citizens across borders and institutions in the center, such as the INPS. But this is quite different from what we are witnessing today, namely the tendency to hand over to the patronage activities so far exclusively under the competence of the diplomatic and consular authorities, such as the management of the issuing of passports. This exponential growth of patrons in foreign territories seems to ratify a delegitimization of the role of guarantee played by the State in sensitive areas such as assistance to our compatriots, through the activation of a delegation - from the opaque legislative legitimacy - to a private subject, at the exact moment when the State itself believes that it cannot have the tools to carry on that role. A private structure cannot and must not be a direct emanation of the Italian State, in total derogation from the provisions of the norm, since it would result in a breach of the guarantees and transparency that only the national institution can guarantee. A further reflection must be made on the role of the honorary consul, which, however, because of the voluntary nature of the task and the limitations of a regulatory nature, cannot replace a consular service, especially when the catchment area is so vast. I remember that the number of our compatriots who show up on average at the reception of the honorary consulate stands at 40 units in the winter period, to reach the 80 units in the summer season. So we are talking about a workload that cannot be supported on a voluntary basis and cannot be left in the hands of a profile that does not have the legitimacy and the appropriate skills. Moreover, the administration has repeatedly provided assurances about the willingness to ensure the permanence of the consular structure in the current building, but against the voices of continuous value assessments over the last three years, together with the voices of a decision to find a smaller property, are an element of insecurity for the compatriots. Mr Undersecretary, despite the evidence you have pointed out, it is difficult to understand the trace of the cost-benefit analysis underlying these projects, and if there is any basis for the rationalization operations currently carried out in Germany. The last chapter is to be found in the suspension of the experiment of the itinerant official in Nuremberg, due, among other things, to the limited availability of personnel to be directed in the headquarters by the structure of Monaco, already in evident suffering. All this in order to say that the parameters and calculations that we have carried out with the communities and the representative bodies lean for an absolute anti-economicity of a real estate disposal, not taken as a separate operation, but extrapolated from the described scenario, as final act of a project not functional. On this we hope a broad and constant confrontation with the local communities, in order to find solutions actually oriented to the protection of the correct provision of the consular services, at the moment strongly compromised. The call for dialogue and mutual dialogue is the priority. I am sure that you, Mr. Undersecretary, with your sensitivity, will be able to make a valuable contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u8	The following question 3-03852 on the transfer of an employee of Wärtsilä from the Trieste branch to that of Taranto. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u9	Mr President, with reference to the parliamentary act of the Senators Baptist and others concerning the case of Mr Colautti, an employee of Wärtsilä SpA, the following is true. From the information acquired at the competent office of the National Labour Inspectorate it appears that Mr Colautti was hired in 2005 by Wärtsilä SpA as a mechanical engineer with a subsequent insertion contract transformed into an indefinite contract. After having held the position of provincial secretary of the FIOM, with consequent union expectation, Mr. Colautti has joined, in the last two years, the USB organization, taking advantage of an ulterior period of expectation. On 6 June 2017, at the end of the posting period, the company ordered the transfer of the worker from the original head office of Trieste to that of Taranto. As far as the reasons for the transfer are concerned, the company leaders have announced that the assembly and assembly department to which the worker was originally assigned no longer exists at the Trieste headquarters. In Trieste, in fact, there are only the registered office of the company and a warehouse, while the assembly and assembly activity is carried out in the headquarters of Taranto (where, moreover, a contract with the Navy is in progress). The trade union organization to which the worker belongs complains, however, that the transfer constitutes an anti-union conduct. The Ministry of Justice - expressly requested by the Ministry of Labour which I represent - reported that, on 3 July, Mr Colautti brought an action before the Triest Court under Article 700 of the Code of Civil Procedure against Wärtsilä SpA. By application lodged at the Registry of the Court of First Instance on 28 February 1999, the applicant brought an action for annulment of the decision of the Court of First Instance of the European Communities on the application of Article 85 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for a declaration of illegality of its transfer from the seat of Trieste to that of Taranto, in so far as it was discriminatory or retortive or, in any event, for the non-existence of actual and actual technical and productive reasons, pursuant to Article 2103 of the Civil Code. On 28 July the first hearing of the precautionary procedure was held, at the outcome of which the judge - at the joint request of the parties - set, on 11 September, a second hearing aimed at the experiment of an attempt at conciliation. The hearing was subsequently postponed, for the same reasons, to the next 25 September. Therefore, in the event of a negative outcome of the conciliation attempt, any assessment of the legality of the conduct put in place by Wärtsilä SpA will be returned to the final statues of the competent judicial authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u12	BATTIST (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for resuming the vicissitudes that Mr Sasha Colautti is involved in. I am a little puzzled about the motivation given by the company that seems to define the Trieste headquarters as a mere warehouse when it is not. I would like to bring to the attention of the Undersecretary and the Government that the company Wärtsilä, a multinational that is based in various countries of the world and also in various cities of our country, cannot assume the risk of enterprise every other day. In my view, the applicant, Mr Colautti, is right, who has been forced to seek justice in order to have his right recognized. The company, which makes a few billion euros a year, cannot benefit from aid from both the Government and the Region. In fact, there is a project of industrial research and experimental development presented by the company Wärtsilä SpA that, if we look at the numbers, is based on a public financing of 3.71 million euros, 2.87 of which will be granted by the Government and 900.000 euros from the Region. The government, therefore, must have a position on this, because it cannot legitimize this position. Mr. Colautti has been transferred - and only him - to a very distant location. It is obvious that this is a discriminatory act and it cannot even be said that this is a retaliation, because Mr. Colautti himself has been a factory delegate for nine years and has been an active party to an agreement with the MISE, which also contained a company restructuring that provided for a redundancy of 90 people of which the Government, with the social partners, had to assume responsibility. Then I subtlely point this out. If a company wants to have such a behavior towards the workers, discriminating who has assumed a trade union role, I believe that the Government must also be careful to give millions of euros contributions to companies that - in my opinion - behave badly. However, I would like to thank the Government for its reply. For now we must entrust ourselves to the judges of the job and we will see what their decision will be. In my opinion, however, the company should pay more attention, because, if it wants to be an unscrupulous entrepreneur, it must not ask for any kind of state contribution for any kind of industrial development it wants to undertake.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u13	The following is the question 3-03602 on the annual contributions to local television stations. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to answer the question raised in the act under discussion by providing the following elements. The above-mentioned regulation, which, in implementation of the reform introduced by the 2016 Stability Act, will govern the new criteria for the provision of annual support contributions to local television and radio stations, was adopted in advance by the Council of Ministers on 24 March. On 3 July, the Council of State gave a favourable opinion on the draft decree of the President of the Republic laying down the abovementioned regulation, which was finally approved by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on 7 August. Once the control process has been completed, the regulation will then be published in the Official Journal. Subsequently, the Ministry of Economic Development, with its own decree, will be able to adopt the measure of opening the time limits for the submission of applications related to the year 2016. I would like to point out that the delays referred to in the interrogation act will largely be recovered thanks to the new procedure for the ban, which will be totally online, reducing the time taken to examine and investigate the relevant requests. Moreover, it should be stressed that, in the more than one approval, the Government has increased the total resources available to local broadcasters, which, under current legislation, for 2016 were equal to 40,800,000 euros. To these were added the funds of the share of extra revenues of the RAI subscription fee provided for by the 2016 Stability Act, in an action to strengthen the policies of support and qualification of broadcasting broadcasting, thus reforming a discipline of contributions dating back to 2002, now obsolete and inadequate. With regard to contributions for 2015, the winding-up procedures for the 456 television broadcasters, which were benefited on the basis of the rankings approved by the regional Corecoms, were initiated last April by the Ministry and are in progress. On the Ministry's website, in the section dedicated to transparency, the list of the 300 television stations to which contributions and their amounts have already been allocated is published. This information is updated by the Ministry on a monthly basis. This activity took place immediately after the publication in the Official Journal of the decrees of division between the Regions of the total allocation of competence for the year 2015. These procedures have been the last regulated by the old legislation. As was reported in the Commission last February, the delay in the entry into force of the decrees for repartition at regional level of the appropriation is obviously not to be attributed to the Ministry and is the main reason for the delay itself. Certainly, the complex mechanism of regional rankings represents a passage that has generated even in the past delays, resulting from litigation at the TAR on the individual regional rankings, blocking for months the overall process. With the new regulation, a virtuous path begins, which will strengthen support for the local broadcasters sector, with a view to stimulating publishing and information activities, thanks to new mechanisms and selection criteria that reward those who invest in the highest quality publishing activity. In fact, the 2016 Stability Act established that the four principles under which delivery criteria are defined are the promotion of information pluralism, support for employment in the sector, the improvement of the quality of content provided, the encouragement of the use of innovative technologies. The forecast that the Ministry makes with the application of the new regulation is that during the period of no more than five or six months the invitations to tender for the year 2016, 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u17	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr Undersecretary, I can say that I am partially satisfied with the answer, because it is going in the direction of improvements. As far as the long awaited regulation is concerned, since I submitted the question in March 2017, I have been able to see the speed of this work on a regulation that we hope will be made up of certain, slim and fast rules to bring the answers that local broadcasters are asking for. As you said, on 7 August it was finally approved and is awaiting publication in the Official Journal and should now be on the tables of those who will have to use the rules contained in it. This is undoubtedly an important step in which I think we are heading in the right direction, and that is why I can say that I am partially satisfied with what you are doing. As regards the speed of the calls that will be issued, you mentioned future online calls: this is an important information that should speed up the path for the activation of resources that are vital to local broadcasters. Taking a step back, I would like to remind you that the premiality of which you spoke to me and the cornerstones within which you evaluate it are important in order to be able to evaluate these broadcasters, which certainly carry out a great action also of a social nature as well as formative. We remember that local broadcasters provide information on local issues and have a lot of listening and dissemination, especially in certain areas where the arrival of news, especially local ones, is more difficult; they therefore play a very fundamental role and consequently the possibility of having resources becomes vital. In my opinion, the action that the government is doing can certainly be partly satisfactory. They are concerned about the slowness and delays that, according to what you are saying, are filling in and I hope that the time limit you have given for five or six months will be respected and that we will therefore go in the right and correct direction. However, there is still much to be done to achieve this, but you have also taken a correct and shared path by the broadcasters and must therefore be followed, accelerated in its process and supported and maintained in the direction, because this is a pursuit of delays and difficulties that have been determined for the broadcasters. Along with those who have asked me to bring their voices, I hope that this possibility of catching up with the delay of the bans will be maintained and that in time we will not find ourselves having to chase further the delays that you have now filled. For my part, I can declare myself partially satisfied, but I hope that there will be attention, that the timing you have just indicated will be respected and that therefore there will be the possibility for the issuing parties to continue to give information and to be able to be a support, in particular for local activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u18	Question 3-03802 on the future employment of Wind Tre SpA workers follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to answer all the questions raised by the act under discussion by using data and arguments which the MISE has already provided in different institutional fora and which I imagine are already known. Wind Tre, a company founded as a result of a merger process involving Wind Telecommunications SpA and H3G SpA, is the first operator in the mobile market in Italy, with 30.9 million customers, equal to a market share of 37 percent, and has a fixed telephony of about 2.7 million customers. The merger of the two companies resulted in physiological structural overlaps also in terms of resources. Following the merger, Wind Tre managed the process of integration of the staff exclusively on a voluntary basis, using own resources with which employees who showed interest were encouraged. The sale of the branch therefore falls within this scope. The business branch carries out top-level administrative-commercial and technical assistance services (mainly information on the coverage of the telecommunications network). Wind Tre has specified to have completed a careful verification of the entrepreneurial subjects that operate in the field in order to search a qualified counterpart, financially solid, endowed of proven and multiannual experience in the field and of suitable entrepreneurial structure, to which to be able to entrust the performance of the service of call center. The choice of the company has fallen on Comdata, a company active for years in the fields of design and management in outsourcing of systems and services. Comdata is - according to how much evidenced from Wind Tre - between the more stable companies of the field from the financial point of view and is in course of expansion also beyond the national borders. The company has 36,000 employees in its workforce (of which 6.514 in Italy as of April 30, 2017, organic grew in 2015 and 2016 by more 7.3 percent). The total number of employees is located at 60 locations (in 14 countries and continents), of which 15 are in Italy. In the 2016 it has recorded revenues for 600 million euros. Moreover, this company is currently the market leader in Italy, with a 20% share in terms of revenues. On May 22nd, following the requests made by the trade unions, Wind Tre presented his business plan and in this circumstance - as provided for by the national collective agreement of work of the telecommunications sector - anticipated the intention to proceed to the sale of branch of company, having as object the call center 133 for the consumer customers of the brand Tre, illustrating its motivations. On June 9, 2017 Wind Tre, together with Comdata, activated the trade union consultation procedure provided for by the law aimed at finding solutions to provide any more appropriate employment guarantee. The objective, at the same time as the transfer of the aforementioned branch of company, was to sign a contract with seven years of supply by Comdata of call center services, for the performance of which the aforementioned company would have availed itself of the acquired branch of company. This decision would have resulted in a consolidation of the existing commercial relations between the two companies and would result in a significant strengthening of Comdata's position in the contact center market in Italy. With specific reference to what said in premise, in particular to the concern expressed by the questioners about the maintenance of the employment and contractual guarantees of the employees, I would like to point out that on 27 June 2017 Wind Tre, Comdata and the union representatives unite of Genoa, Cagliari Rome and Palermo, assisted by CGIL, CISL and UIL national and territorial, together with the national coordination of the union representatives unite of Wind Tre, have signed an agreement minutes with which, pursuant to and for the effects of article 2112 of the civil code, it has been previewed the transfer to Comdata of the employees Wind Tre employed in the branch of company to date from 5 July 2017. All workers have been transferred to Comdata without interruption and with the maintenance of seniority of service, the level of classification and the paid rest period for refection within eight hours for full-time shift workers. Comdata will guarantee the occupational stability for the entire duration of the contract of services of seven years duration with reference to the workers who, ex Article 2112 of the Civil Code, will pass to its dependents for the effect of the cession of branch of company, besides to assure the maintenance of the current center of job of the transferred workers of Cagliari, Genoa, Palermo and Rome for the entire duration of the aforementioned contract. Comdata, in view of the planned development of the business, has then undertaken to accept the requests for increase up to six hours daily from the part-time ones currently in service with contracts to four or five hours daily. The agreement also provides that, in the event of early termination of the contract, Wind Tre will apply the social guarantee clause in favour of these workers, undertaking to identify a new operator that guarantees the protection of jobs in accordance with the provisions of national trade negotiations, with a view to pursuing the maintenance of employment and treatment levels. The workers concerned by the transfer of the branch of the company will also maintain the registration to the supplementary pension fund, in accordance with the conditions and conditions laid down in the current national collective agreement of telecommunication work, and will be eligible as a member of the Wind Tre Solidarity Fund throughout the duration of the contract of contract of services. For 2017, the workers themselves will be able to benefit from the payment of the result premium of Wind Tre if the usual results allow to proceed with its payment. The agreement also provides that Comdata workers themselves shall be granted three days of paid leave on an annual basis for the child's illness up to the age of eight years and that up to the 36th month of the child's life the working mothers shall not serve on Saturdays. In view of the above, it appears that the terms of the agreement have, therefore, placed an important attention on the employment and contractual aspects relating to the workers involved in the transfer of the branch of company. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that, in terms of its own competence, the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Economic Development, while clearly respecting the autonomy of the parties, will continue to monitor the negotiation process and the developments of this important operation in the field of call centres.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u22	ANGIONES (PD). Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Giacomelli for his clear reply, for which I am fully satisfied. We are talking about well-known facts and facts that we have followed in recent months and that we are aware of. The matter was summarized by the Undersecretary. I would just like to recall the fact that with our question we asked the Government a few months ago for a ruling on the compatibility of those externalizations announced on 22 May by the newly established company Wind Tre with the objectives of protecting the future employment of workers employed in customer service. I must admit that in this matter the Government has played a decisive role in the defence of those jobs and, in particular, of the workers of those sites that have been remembered (Genoa, Cagliari, Rome and Palermo), who would have been involved in a process of transfer of branch of company - let us be honest - without any guarantee and without any network. It's fine, therefore, the agreement signed between companies and unions, with that very effective and, I would say, persuasive work that the Government has done. Well, the government is also monitoring the implementation of that agreement in the coming months. We will allow ourselves, as parliamentarians, to continue to monitor the state of implementation of the agreement between workers and companies and, in particular, that part which guarantees the place to the workers involved throughout the duration of the contract for the provision of services guaranteed by Wind to Comdata, which lasts seven years. And we will be very careful that that agreement is fully carried out until the conclusion of the contract itself. Of course we hope, for the prospects of our country's telephony, as we are talking about the largest group in the sector of our country, and for the job prospects of the workers involved, that we will go even beyond seven years.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u23	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-882.ana.u24	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 26 September, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.46 p.m.
