ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u3	I inform you that the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the allocation of the seat rendered vacant in the Liguria region following the resignation of Senator Augusto Minzolini, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Roberto Cassinelli. I acknowledge this communication and proclaim Senator Roberto Cassinelli. I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u4	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-0310 on the release of three Albanian criminals arrested between the provinces of Treviso and Pordenone. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u5	Madam President, I respond to the question put by Senator Bisinella, including the subject of the question. With the act of inspection union in question, the Senator reported an incident that took place on the evening of November 16 last year, in the territory between the provinces of Treviso and Pordenone, when the carabinieri proceeded to the control of three Albanian citizens, suspected of several thefts in the home, on board an Audi A4 car, which also came from theft. He reported, in particular, that the aforementioned, after being stopped and identified, to the outcome of a pursuit that involved a remarkable deployment of means and personnel of the Forces of the Order, were denounced free of charge for the crime of reclaiming the car and immediately released. In this regard, in recalling what has been reported by the press, which has given considerable importance to the matter, it assumes that there would have been an underestimation of the case for an error of communication between the carabinieri operating and the magistrate in turn. On this basis, taking into account the media clamour reserved for the fact and the negative repercussions on citizens' confidence in the justice system and, more generally, in the institutions, asks to know whether the Minister of Justice, in the exercise of his prerogatives, intends to undertake an inspection and take the necessary measures. First of all, it should be noted that the competent Judicial Directorate-General has been responsible for the matter, which has acquired information from the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Treviso, the holder of the relevant proceedings. The report submitted by Treviso's attorney shows that on the evening of 15 November 2016, around 23.30, the external magistrate received a call from the commander of the Carabinieri station in Cessalto, during which he was told that three subjects of Albanian nationality (identified in Shaploqi Enis, Shaploqi Lorenc and Alia Elton), who at the moment were not burdened by criminal precedents, had been stopped on board a car found to be stolen, committed in Pordenone on 11 November 2016; that the aforementioned, despite the attempt to escape identification, throwing themselves in the river Livenza, had been blocked, with the help of the policemen of Pordenone; that, after the results of the control operations, inside the car, they were found tools for breaking in and a couple of earrings of which were suspected of stealing; therefore, the seizure of the medium and what was found. The Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Treviso also informed that it had expressed a negative opinion on the opportunity to proceed to the arrest of the suspects of the crime of fence, the only possible crime in the immediacy of the facts, as the three persons were at the moment censored and the request for the application of the precautionary measure did not appear conceivable; moreover, it was not possible to proceed to the arrest, not recognizing the presupposition of the flagrantness of any crime. In this regard, the requisitioning office informed that, around 3.30 p.m. on 16 November, the same magistrate in charge received a second call, during which the operational and radiomobile (NORM) core of the Carabinieri of Pordenone informed him, that the owner of the earrings found in the availability of one of the three suspects had been identified, but he, however, did not provide any information about the date of the theft, thus being unable to consider the flagrantness of the crime. Finally, the Treviso Public Prosecutor reported that, in the course of the relevant proceedings, the documents relating to searches and seizures, ritually validated, and the control of the certificates of the judicial record, were filed, Shafloqi Enis was censored, Shafloqi Loren burdened by a precedent for violation of Article 496 of the Criminal Code, for facts ruled in 2004, and Alia Elton burdened by precedents for criminal offences, theft, forgery and forgery, committed in the years 2003 and 2004. On the basis of the investigation carried out, the competent ministerial body did not find it to be the responsibility of the magistrate at the time of the facts conducted relevant from the disciplinary point of view. In this regard, it noted that the operational choices adopted by the magistrate are entered in the area of discretionary, expressive assessments of the exercise of the judicial and trade union function within the same procedural system through the experiment of means of appeal, where provided. In particular, since these determinations have matured in the context of the phase of preliminary investigations and in the perspective of the investigative strategies of the requisitioning authority, the choice to prosecute suspects in a state of freedom, not pouring themselves in the hypothesis of compulsory arrest, is not subject to any censorship, not having translated into violations of laws or legally abnormal measures. In this regard it is useful to point out the necessary distinction between discretionary choices of the judicial authority, as such unavoidable, and bound behavior, because imposed by precise rules of law, which alone are liable to carry out checks in the same way as the parameters of diligence underlying the figures of disciplinary wrongdoing. So much represented with regard to the specific affair, it would like to reassure the Senator that all the institutions, starting from the same judicial authority, will pay and pay the utmost attention to the issue of the fight against predatory crimes, precisely in the awareness that such criminal cases affect the sense of trust of the community in the institutions and generate a perception of alarm and fear. From this perspective, the most recent guidelines of the jurisprudence of legality must be read, which have provided an extensive interpretation of the concept of private residence for crimes against property, affirming the existence of such crimes where committed in the places where the holder can legitimately exercise the ius excludedi. Equal attention has been paid to the subject by the Government and the Ministry in the framework of the bill n. 2067, approved by the Senate last March 15, and currently to the examination of the Chamber, including amendments to the penal code, the code of criminal procedure to the penitentiary order. The bill intervenes, in fact, on the sanctioning framework of the crime of theft in home and with tear, referred to in article 624- bis of the penal code, and of the crime of robbery, referred to in article 628 of the penal code. In particular, in both cases, the minimum limit on detention and the minimum and maximum limits on financial penalties are to be tightened, and the penalty framework for aggravated conduct is to be tightened. In addition, similar to what is already laid down for the crime of robbery, it is foreseen the introduction, in Article 624-a, of a further paragraph by virtue of which the judgment of equivalence or prevalence of mitigating circumstances other than those provided for in Articles 98 of the Criminal Code (which governs the minor age) and 625-a of the Criminal Code (which governs the collaboration for the identification of the corrigi in the theft or of the possible recipes), competitors with the aggravating circumstances of the the theft referred to in Article 625 of the Criminal Code. The choice to intervene on the minimum limits of the prison sentence responds to the precise need to ensure an increase in the penalties specifically imposed for such crimes and thus enhance the general preventive function of the sentence. It should also be noted that the aforementioned bill, in paying particular attention to the victims of such crimes, also provides for the amendment of Article 408 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, bringing from ten to twenty days the time limit granted to the person offended to oppose the request for storage and request the continuation of investigations. In addition, for the crime of house theft or rip-off, as well as for crimes committed violently to the person, the prosecutor must notify the offended party of the filing request, granting him thirty days (currently twenty) for the opposition. As represented - and thanking you for your attention - it can therefore be affirmed that regulatory intervention, in shaping an overall reform of the criminal system, will not only contribute to return efficiency to justice, in compliance with the defence guarantees of the accused, but will also help to restore the confidence of citizens also on the security side, an issue that is also dear to the Government. Of course, to ensure security, a whole series of reforms still need to be carried out to make the justice service's response more efficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u8	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Ferri for his long reply, but I immediately declare myself absolutely and dutylessly unsatisfied and I also say the reasons, which are mainly two (to which I will add a final consideration). I refer first of all to the list by the Undersecretary of the technical reasons for which the Ministry has decided not to take any disciplinary action against the magistrates who, in that context, on the evening of 16 November decided to release the multiple prejudices that were, I would like to remind you, strongly suspected of several thefts in the home, certainly not simply of a theft of earrings or of little stealing. It was a criminal gang of multiple victims, for months under investigation by the Procurator of Pordenone, who had fled in an incredible way and had engaged with the Forces of the order of the territories, between the province of Pordenone and that of Treviso, a real chase at full speed, in very small settlements, in the midst of the people, until they had even caused an accident because they fell into the waters of the river Livenza and only thanks to the readiness of reflections, and also really to the heart, of the security workers, of the Carabinieri and of the other Forces of the order intervened, who have thrown themselves into the water, risking also to put their safety back in order to be able to catch these subjects, were precisely captured and a few hours later released in the general dismay, not only of the security operators of the same Forces of the order that, I repeat, risked their lives in this case, but of all and in the feeling of terrible injustice lived by the communities that that that that that that night have witnessed those scenes. They were released by the magistrate mainly for lack of evidence, for not having a clear charge. In fact - it was discovered then and it was reported also in the following days by press articles - there was a lack of timely and complete communication of news and information between the Public Prosecutor of Pordenone and the Public Prosecutor of Treviso, so much so that, once again, only thanks to the deployment of the Forces of order and their investigative work, a few days later some of these multiple prejudiced have been tracked and brought back in front of a magistrate. In this place, not all but only those who have been found (because a couple seem to have been safely able to flee), have been arrested, in this case due. I therefore believe that the answer is totally inadequate, also being a response from the State, for the fact that the citizen, in the face of such incidents, does not feel neither protected, nor defended and above all sees that striking cases of ill-justice such as this remain totally unpunished, indeed almost defended by the magistrates themselves who have intervened to assume responsibility for a disciplinary investigation. I'm sorry to say that. She called, and in this case I understand, also the sense of discretion of the investigator magistrate. But that is precisely the problem and I am therefore going back to the second negative point. The rules are often such, in our criminal and procedural law, that they cannot be applied in a clear, serious and rigorous manner. This often leaves the magistrates a possibility, precisely, of discretionary application that squeals with common sense and sense of justice. And that is what is not understood by the community and the community. I would therefore like to point out that, although there has been a step forward in the latest draft law on the reform of justice, it is, however, a completely inadequate step forward. We ourselves, as a Mixed-Doing Group! We had called for greater penalties for thefts, thefts and robberies; and on this point we had also tabled a specific bill and amendments which, however, the Government felt that it did not accept and that they were going precisely, not only to provide for an increase in penalties, but to remove from the magistrates a discretion precisely in the face of such striking cases. It will certainly be my cure - and not only mine - to return to the subject. It is clear that here we need a different work, done in synergy between all the institutional forces in order to be able to really stem the repetition of such phenomena and really give a concrete response of justice to the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u9	Following is the question 3-03490 on the closure of the office of the judge of peace of Eboli, in the province of Salerno. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u10	Madam President, I will then hand over the written reply to Senator Cardiello. I will summarize it here, and I will immediately come to the point that concerns the office of the Eboli peace judge. The Ministerial Decree of 6 February 2017 had ordered the exclusion of the office of the judge of peace of Eboli from the list of seats maintained pursuant to Article 3 of Legislative Decree of 7 September 2012, n. 156. The measure, in the mores of the registration, had been promptly transmitted to the district contacts and to the territorial agency concerned. By letter dated 20 February 2017, the President of the Salerno Court, in communicating the formal acceptance of the appointment of the employees assigned by the local authority concerned, represented the possibility to consider the criticalities of operation of the office of the Eboli peace judge, in consideration of which the determinations taken with the above-mentioned provision had taken place. The elements received after the issuance of the ministerial decree, as well as the findings of the specific investigation conducted regarding the functionality and the effective operational capabilities of the office of the judge of peace of Eboli, have allowed the Ministry of Justice to review the decisions taken in relation to the permanence of the judicial garrison, determining the adoption of the ministerial decree 10 March 2017, registered to the Court of Auditors on 23 March 2017, which ordered the revocation of the aforementioned ministerial decree 6 February 2017 of exclusion of the judge of peace of Eboli from the list of seats maintained with burdens on local authorities. The choice to give, in compliance with efficiency and functionality criteria, the utmost attention to the emerging needs of the territories has made it possible for the judicial garrison of Eboli to continue therefore its activity, although subject to a period of observation, quantified in six months, in consideration of the repeated criticalities previously found. Since, however, it is a judicial office maintained with charges borne by the local municipal body, it is the responsibility of the City of Eboli to decide on the identification of the buildings to be used as a judicial office. Therefore, the Ministry revoked the decree with which it had abolished the seat, allowed the continuation and established this period of observation of six months within which, precisely, the Municipality must diligently adapt to the uniform common lines that the Ministry has given, also for the other offices of the judge of peace, as well as to provide communication relating to the buildings where to allocate the office, specifying if it intends to continue in that place or if it intends to change it. It will then be the Ministry that will provide the necessary computer programs and computerization. It seems to me that there are already contacts with the president of the court of appeal of Salerno, Dr. Iside Russo, to try to identify, in agreement with the Municipality, the most suitable seat, that can best guarantee the service of justice even in that garrison of legality, which we consider important, of the Eboli district.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u13	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Undersecretary, I am pleased with the answer, although there is one thing I cannot comprehend. You know that the detached section of Eboli that was suppressed was one of the largest in Italy. As for the suppression of the judge of peace, you did not say if there was a lack and by whom. In his reply, he failed to explain the reason why the judge of peace was removed. Therefore, the answer is lacking with regard to what I asked for in the question, i.e. whether there had been a shortage on the part of the local or judicial body. Mr Undersecretary, I would also like clarification regarding the monitoring by the Ministry of the activities carried out by the judicial garrison of Eboli during the six months of extension granted: after this period and once the monitoring has been carried out, what will happen? Are you gonna shut him down or are you gonna keep him going in his business? If responsibility has not been established before, I call on you to ascertain the next ones and, if there are no, its activity will have to go on. However, if things were going well, it would have been possible to avoid an extension of six months, giving full confidence to the municipal and judicial body, then to the court of appeal of Salerno. I repeat, it would have been possible to give him full confidence and not to let him work for just six months. We therefore await the monitoring to be carried out over the next six months. I repeat, however, that responsibility must be established. The closure was carried out because the president of the Salerno court established shortcomings, but by whom? From the city or the court? You didn't say that, Mr. Undersecretary. The closure was arranged because the employees did not have an economic treatment and there was no suitable location. In the next six months, we will look into what you said, Mr. Undersecretary, and then we will look into what we have to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u14	Following is Question 3-02914 on the allocation of financial resources for the reception of immigrants. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Gambaro, together with other senators, in recalling some critical aspects of the national system of reception of migrants, with particular reference to the territories of Emilia Romagna and Milan, asks to know whether the Minister of the Interior has planned appropriate measures to address the uncontrollable migratory flow in ways consistent with the principles of human solidarity and rational territorial distribution of financial resources. It is noted that, indeed, in 2016 there was a surge in attendance in the various types of structures of the reception system. A total of 176,000 migrants were hosted on 31 December, an increase of 70 percent compared to the same date in 2015. The figures for the first review of the current year confirm the upward trend. It is easily intuitable how these figures are testing the reception system, which up to now has demonstrated ductility and ability to respond, thanks to the widespread and shared reception policy pursued by the administration of the Ministry of the Interior since July 2014, on the basis of a series of objective criteria for the distribution of migrants that are decided at the national coordination table at the Viminale and in the various coordination tables at the prefectures of the capitals of the Region, which actively participate the representatives of the various levels of government of the territory. This line of action is considered the most appropriate, on the one hand, to ensure greater effectiveness of social inclusion pathways and, on the other hand, to reduce the impact of the phenomenon on the social fabric of the country. It will allow, among other things, to archive the experience of the large reception centres to which still today is being resorted as an extreme ratio in those contexts characterized by a only partial response of the local institutions to the needs of prompt reception of migrants. Through this new approach the Government has succeeded in achieving the equitable distribution of migrants among the Regions. On the other hand, within the Regions there are still mismatches between municipalities. Compared with those who receive a large number of migrants, there are several others in which the reception measures have not been activated, or have been activated to an insufficient extent. To overcome this criticality the Ministry of the Interior has thought and agreed with the ANCI a new National Plan of reception, in implementation of which is being realized a distribution of migrants more balanced and sustainable also between the different local realities, thanks to the definition of a number of presences related to the population resident in every single municipality. It should be noted that the cornerstone of this operation lies in the strong growth of the projects of the SPRAR network, that is the projects related to the so-called second reception, proposed by the mayors together with the qualified bodies of the third sector and financed almost all (95 percent) by the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior has been engaged for years in the strengthening of this network, of which it has been managed to exponentially increase the places from 3,000 of 2012 to approximately 24,000 current. Currently the prefectures are carrying out an activity of awareness and involvement of the local territories through meetings with the mayors directed to assure the information and the support necessary to give concrete development to the reception paths and the activation of project proposals. A first finding has already emerged the willingness of several municipalities to join the SPRAR network, while other municipalities have been interested in the activation of temporary structures. In this collaborative context, the support measures adopted last year in favour of local administrations committed to the reception are also included. It is 100 million euros allocated by Decree-Law No. 193 of 2016, which are being distributed among the municipalities concerned on the basis of the criteria established by an interministerial decree adopted on 30 December last. It also highlights the financial support that the Ministry of the Interior provides to municipalities that provide reception services in favour of unaccompanied foreign minors through a special fund with a budget of 170 million euros for each of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. Ahead of this speech on financial aspects, it is worth recalling in general that the burden of reception is absolutely overwhelming on the budget of the State. It has already been said that the Ministry of the Interior finances the SPRAR projects proposed by the mayors for 95% of the costs. The Ministry itself bears all the costs of the remaining part of the national reception system, i.e. 100% of the costs of setting up and managing hotspots, first reception centres and extraordinary reception centres. The resources allocated in the forecast of the Ministry of the Interior for the year 2017 total approximately 1,900 million, of which 1,320 million for the centres of the various types, 405 million euro for the SPRAR, the already mentioned 170 million of the National Fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors, 319,000 euro for the reception services at border crossing points. Added to these resources, which are likely to increase when the budget is set up, to those of the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund for the period 2014-2020, totalling EUR 695 million, allocated equally by the European Union and Italy. I shall conclude with a brief mention of the current situation of reception in the territorial realities expressly mentioned in the question. As for the Metropolitan City of Milan it is represented that in order to face the hospitality due to asylum seekers the local prefecture has concluded agreements with more than thirty managing bodies that, at the date of 31 March last, hosted on that territory 5,821 asylum seekers, so divided: 5,120 in the extraordinary centres of reception and 701 in the SPRAR centers. Unfortunately, the number of municipalities in which shelter centres run by the prefecture are still very limited; in fact, only 42 of the 134 municipalities in Milan currently contribute to the management of migratory flows. The municipality most involved is that capital, in whose territory, by virtue of a strong interinstitutional collaboration with the prefecture, an extraordinary reception system has been set up, which has given hospitality in the last three years to about 114,000 migrants of which 22,000 minors. On a more general level, it is represented that the migrants assigned to the Lombardy Region are currently 23,500 units, equal to 14% of the arrivals at national level. The migrants destined to the Region all arrive at the extraordinary reception center of Bresso, managed by the Red Cross, which also acts as a sorting center for foreigners to the other provinces of Lombardy. The recovery of the respective quota at the centre in question takes place by the Lombard prefectures. Finally, as regards Emilia-Romagna, it is limited to reporting that at the moment a little more than 13,000 asylum seekers are received on the regional territory, compared to the 14.157 units constituting the quota allocated on the basis of the aforementioned National Reception Plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u18	GAMBARO (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I must thank Mr Ferri, for his answer has been very timely and precise. This question was submitted almost a year ago, in June 2016, and indeed there was another Government and the Ministers were different. I had also been concerned by the commissioner of my city, Bologna, about the forecast of massive arrivals. In the meantime the arrivals have still increased, because this year we are talking about a +45 percent of arrivals on our territory. I therefore welcome the measures that the Government is taking to deal with these massive arrivals, not only in terms of integration, but also because Italy is once again alone in the face of this huge problem that we are facing. Europe does not assist us and does not help us; I have also mentioned it in the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, we have to do it ourselves. So I thank you and ask you to keep us always aware of what the Government thinks it is doing and the measures it intends to take, because we must then report on our territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u19	Question 3-03206 on the regularity of a number of public contracts granted by the municipalities to SOGET SpA follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Cardiello draws the attention of the Ministry of the Interior to the public evidence procedure by which the Municipality of Eboli entrusted SOGET SpA with the investigation and collection of tax and extra-tributary revenue. In this regard, it requests the adoption of initiatives to verify whether the said company has the requirements for granting concessions and public contracts and, on the other hand, whether the municipality of Eboli operates in the field of procurement according to transparency criteria. It is recommended that the procedures for the management of public procurement, in terms of the correct application of the relevant legislation and of compliance with the principles of competition and transparency, apply to the sphere of responsibility of the individual contracting stations, without prejudice to the involvement of the National Anti-corruption Authority as a body responsible for supervising public contracts and regulating their activities. I then come to answer the questions asked, based on the information provided by the Municipality of Eboli, through the prefecture of Salerno, and by the National Anti-corruption Authority. Following a statement submitted by a minority city council member of that municipality, in which anomalies were reported in the aforementioned public evidence procedure, the National Anti-corruption Authority initiated a supervisory procedure. In this context, the municipal administration has sent to the DAC a report on the activity carried out, from the publication of the contract notice until the award of the service to the SOGET, also providing a copy of the documents acquired, including the anti-mafia certificate, the definitive guarantee guarantee and the insurance policy. To the outcome of the supervisory procedure, the DAC has formulated some remarks about the appropriateness of the entrusting of the service to the aforementioned company, with reference in particular to the existence of the requirements referred to in article 38 paragraph 1, letter f), of the legislative decree n. 163 of 2006. It should be recalled that, under the provision cited above, the parties who, on the basis of a reasoned assessment by the contracting authority, have committed serious negligence or bad faith in the performance of the services entrusted to them by the contracting authority, or who have committed a serious error in the performance of their professional activity, established by any means of proof by the contracting authority itself, are excluded from participation in the procedures for relying on concessions and contracts for works, supplies and services, nor may they be entrusted with subcontracting, nor may they conclude the relevant contracts, or have committed a serious error in the performance of their professional activity, established by any means of proof by the contracting authority itself. According to DAC, in the present case, the contracting authority would not have adequately verified, either at the award stage or at the execution stage, the fulfilment of these requirements, which were also readily available through open sources. In fact, from the press and the Internet, it was possible to assume news of investigations and judgments that had to be carefully evaluated, as they contained elements relating to the ability and professional reliability of the company in question. Among the decisions that could be acquired, there were the judgments of the Court of Cassation and the Council of State cited in the question by Senator Cardiello with which it was acclaimed that the SOGET committed serious failures in the execution of a trust with the Municipality of Oria and that the company and its directors were the subject of criminal sentences imposed by the court of Taranto. In response to the findings of the DAC, the Municipality made a detailed report, stating that, on the basis of a copious jurisprudence, the power of exclusion from the tender is largely discretionary in nature, expected that the judgment in relation to the violations committed by the successful tenderer in previous reports is returned to the appreciation of the contracting station. The Municipality has then evidenced that in the course of the investigation it has had the opportunity to evaluate the declarations of the contestants to the invitation to tender, between which the information given from the SOGET about the termination of the contract with the Municipality of Oria. As reported by the Municipality, due consideration has also been given to the fact that the said company can boast declarations issued by different administrations, proving the correctness of the activity carried out. Therefore, in confirming the requirement in Article 38, paragraph 1 (f), under the SOGET, the contracting station has assured the DAC that the permanence of the same requirement will be verified on a continuous basis. To this end, it will follow carefully the development of pending judicial events that involve the SOGET, taking into account also the new regulatory framework, constituted by Article 80 of Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016 and the guidelines approved by the DAC in this matter, with resolution of 16 November 2016. The DAC took note of the clarifications provided by the municipal administration and considered that there was no margin for further intervention; however, it considered to transmit to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Pescara the final report on the supervisory activity carried out. As regards recruitment, the local authority reported that it did not know the selection criteria adopted by the SOGET. As regards anti-mafia prevention, the Prefecture of Pescara has represented that, in respect of the company in question, numerous requests for communications and anti-mafia information appear in the official documents, some of which are still under investigation, from which there have been no impediments or information to be reported. With regard to the criminal aspects reported by Senator Cardiello, it is represented that the sentence issued by the court of Taranto has not yet passed into judgment, having been appealed - among others - by the SOGET. The burden is registered with the branch of Taranto of the court of appeal of Lecce and the next audience will be held on 27 September 2017. As for the criminal proceedings before the court of Pescara, we inform you that the preliminary hearing was scheduled for the next 8 June. We are therefore awaiting the outcome of these procedures which have also been mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u23	CARDIELLO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Undersecretary, your reply shows that what I wrote in the question is true, in the sense that this company, despite the directors being under trial and despite the fact that there are reports of irregularities and anomalies on the part of the municipalities, continues to participate in the public races and that in fact there are criminal proceedings open throughout Italy. In the past the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Pescara had carried out investigations against the directors of the SOGET, but the Court of Appeal of Taranto and other courts had also done so. It is clear that what was written by the municipality of Eboli is not founded, also because the ANAC raised the reliefs saying that the public race in that way was not good. Mr Undersecretary, this means that we will address ourselves to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Pescara and, if necessary, transmit this act to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Salerno to clarify what has happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u24	The following are questions 3-03494, 3-03675, 3-03677 and 3-03678 on the safety of passengers and railway staff on board trains. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the acts of trade union inspection on the agenda, which I would like to discuss jointly on the same subject, the interrogating senators, drawing on the episodes of aggression and vandalism on various national and regional railway routes, draw the attention of the Government to the issue of the safety of travellers and staff in service on trains. The topic highlighted concerns a strategic sector for mobility in the country, characterized by impressive volumes of traffic. On a daily basis, there are more than 3.5 million people passing through over 2,500 Italian stations and more than 8,000 convoys circulating on the national railway line. The safety of these people is guaranteed by the 4,400 railway police units through assiduous and targeted controls, in coordination with the other police forces territorially present. During 2016 205,000 surveillance services were carried out at the railway stations, 44,000 escort services on board the train with 96,000 escorted trains, 17,000 anti-bag services in civilian clothes, over 26,000 patrols along the railway lines and just under 2,000 extraordinary services of control of the territory. In addition, day-to-day services were provided on board the night convoys and the supervision of those convoys and in those routes where the most critical issues have been identified has been intensified. It should be noted that 941,000 persons were checked during the services described, of whom 1,245 were arrested and 11,360 were released to the judicial authority. There were also 14,000 infringements. Thanks to the measures put in place, in 2016 there was a reduction in predatory crime, with a decrease in theft of 27 percent compared to 2015. The other indices of crime also show a decrease in almost all phenomena: with a decrease in robberies by 37 percent, in damages by 9 percent, in copper thefts by 47 percent, in the launch of objects against trains by 24 percent, with an increase in only frauds against railway companies. Finally, there has been a fall in the number of attacks, both on the staff of railway undertakings, with a decrease of 5% and on the number of passengers, with a decrease of 13%. With regard to the latter aspect - that is, the aggressions - there is another fact that is reassuring: in 67 percent of cases, those responsible for criminal conduct were arrested and referred to the judicial authority. In the context outlined above, the information and operational synergies established with the various railway undertakings are essential. In this respect, it should be noted that, on a monthly basis or when problems arise, the railway police shall identify, together with those undertakings, trains which are considered to be critical on the basis of the crime rate and the exposure of those trains to potential risks of aggression. In relation to the elements of knowledge thus acquired, targeted stocks are carried out on the signaled convoys, as well as services in the railway ports concerned by the transit of the same convoys, thus implementing an effective filtering device already at the time of departure. Moreover, since 2008 the emergency telephone number 1600 for the ground-train connection is active, which allows the railway staff to get in direct contact with the nearest railway police operating room to ensure an immediate intervention of the patrols. On the other hand, technologies also play an important role in this field. The number of railway stations and trains equipped with video surveillance devices is increasing. This is certainly a trend to be consolidated, since these are basic installations, both as a deterrent and for the detection of possible perpetrators of wrongdoing. It is considered that the picture of the measures and the results just illustrated witnesses the attention that the Administration of the interior turns to safety along the national railway network. The latter is committed to achieving ever higher standards both by relying on the strengthening of collaboration with railway undertakings and, in the future, through the reorganization of the railway police. With regard to the latter aspect, referred to in the Senator Council's question, it is stated that no decision has been taken. It is confirmed, however, that the future planning of the railway specialty is the subject of deepening within the plan of rationalization of the garrisons of the State Police and the Arm of the carabinieri throughout the national territory, in process in the light of the guiding criteria dictated from the so-called law Madia. This plan will then be transposed into a ministerial decree, to be issued under Law No 121 of 1981. The railway police will also be interested from such reorganization, being evident the necessity to adapt the operativity to the remarkable transformations recorded in the safety of the railway traffics, in reason of multiple factors of change, beginning from the development of the high speed in order to arrive to the separation of the traffic network from the operators of service and to the transformation of the great stations, become, from simple places of transit, points of encounter and allocation of commercial activities. In order to arrive at a complete definition of the plan of rationalization of the principals, special inter-force groups were set up at the police coordination and planning office of the Department of Public Security. The working groups have not yet finished their work, but they are already making sure that there will be no weakening of the operational capabilities of the railway specialty either in the national or in the specific local areas. I would like to emphasise this statement that, among other things, it is dear not only to the Government, but also to the interrogating senators. Any possible option will be carefully evaluated and will never be at the expense of the safety of travellers and railway staff.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u28	MUNATO (Misto-Fare!). Mr Undersecretary, I am partially satisfied with your reply. Efforts to contain incidents such as those reported in my question certainly go in the right direction. Without a doubt, instruments such as increased surveillance in convoys, the deployment of cameras and other surveillance systems guarantee a high level of protection for control personnel. However, the inconveniences caused by these deplorable episodes of indiscriminate aggressions and for futile reasons, which often risk turning into real tragedies, also endanger the proper performance of the service. Is it possible that the passengers of our trains, and I refer specifically to the route covered by train 2248 Bologna-Venezia Santa Lucia, which connects Rovigo to Venice, must live in a constant state of apprehension, perhaps at the end of a working day? It has been done a great deal, as you have just mentioned, but much still needs to be done. We must ensure the safety of our stations and our trains, without leaving anything to chance, especially in a period of strong social tensions such as the one we are experiencing and, of course, without neglecting the constant risk posed by possible terrorist attacks. The subject is broad and complex, I am well aware of that. But the tools are not lacking. We know what are the routes at risk of our rail network. In my question, I called for the creation of an institutional table at the Ministry of the Interior, with the participation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, railway undertakings and trade union representatives, in order to monitor precisely those sections and to take timely measures in this regard. I therefore ask you to be the bearer of my request and an additional attention to ensure the proper tranquility of those who carry out the checks on our trains and the many commuters who benefit from the service. We cannot allow a few uncivilized to act uncontrolled and unscrupulously to condition our lives and feed a climate of fear and suspicion: fear of taking a train, of asking for the title of travel. All this is not conceivable and we have a duty to restore the situation to a state of normality. More attention, intensive monitoring, prevention and timely intervention are the tools at our disposal: let us use them, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u31	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Undersecretary, I am not entirely satisfied with your answer, not because of a lack of confidence in what you have said, but because I really believe that my question, which was born of a series of episodes involving the province of Monza and Brianza, is not resolved, despite the numbers you have given us about the partial decrease of these episodes. In fact, on such large numbers, the percentages of decrease that you have highlighted are still evidence of the need to intervene. The problem is to be able not to find a signal on particular areas of difficulty in order to guarantee public order, but to have a strategic plan to solve this problem. As for the decrease you mentioned, just before entering the Chamber I typed the words "rail safety" in one of the most used search engines by all of us for curiosity. What emerges is a series of daily complaints and tensions that then disturb the serenity of our families and leave us all perplexed. The episodes of violence in general and sexual violence are multiplied to a great extent by reading in the lines of a simple search in an engine that we all use, as I said before. The problem is as follows. The insecurity that generates these episodes is certainly not to be debilitated in a slight decrease of a phenomenon, but it is to be considered as a topic to be dealt with structurally. How? First of all, by putting those who work in a position to do their job. Too often we are told, even through simple contacts, the difficulty of the operators to carry out their function: checking a ticket often becomes a risk to their lives and, if you want to bring home your own skin, maybe it is wife to turn her head on the other side, not for lack of willingness to face her own job or do her own duty, but because unfortunately you are not in a position to do it. It is not sloppy, but a contingent assessment of an imminent risk. In my opinion, it is necessary to put in condition those who work to do their job; it is also necessary to put in condition any of us traveling on trains or any of our family members not to have that sense of anxiety that already takes when we arrive in the square of a station, because unfortunately our stations have become places of great insecurity, where illegal phenomena take place: they are a concentration of pure lawlessness. In my opinion, I repeat, to secure both workers and passengers not through an alert or a calculation of the probability of what can happen in certain sections, but must be considered within a structural way of dealing with a phenomenon that, within everything that concerns the security of the country, should not be underestimated; nor can we be satisfied with a partial positive result. It is necessary to give security to each of us, to every Italian citizen and to every worker who works on the routes of being able to do his job with serenity and to be able to enjoy a public service with great security.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u34	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr Ferri, thank you for your reply. Some data, since my question is rather dated, we had it, but this reinforces even more the idea that the positive attitude that the Government must have towards a very sensitive issue is absolutely even more urgent. There is a feeling of fear when you go to a railway station, sometimes dictated also by the presence of subjects that are now a bit 'part of the furniture of the railway stations. There is an inability, sometimes even on the part of the Forces of Order, to keep at bay a system that has now damaged, even under the aspect of fame, our stations and our trains. For example, I quote what happened a few days ago on the route of a regional train that was blocked for a few hours by some 70 children who mocked the Forces of Order. Perhaps the security officers had little chance of intervening because they probably knew that touching a 14 - or 15 - year - old boy could cause serious problems. So there are no conditions for the State to be truly strict in relation to an extremely sensitive issue. We also have some Presidents of the Region, like Maroni, who spent 3 million euros of citizens for the safety on trains on some sections of Lombardy, money that, probably, with a greater attention from the Government could serve to implement the Forces of the order, in the numbers and in the ability to operate, although they have not been weakened, as you have just said Undersecretary, in that it is still money taken from the citizens. And if that's okay from one point of view, it's negative from another. I am glad that the approximately 4,000 units are not touched at all, as you said before. I hope that there will be a little more attention, given that these problems also arise on trains that are absolutely bound by the entrance ticket and bookings and this is something that makes you think. If three senators, this Thursday afternoon, are here to highlight this issue, I believe that something still needs to be done. As far as the figures you have reported are concerned (27 percent less, 37 percent less, 9 percent less) the feeling of the citizen is not always in this direction. I believe that 3.5 million passengers - as you remember - must be better protected.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u35	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u36	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-811.ana.u37	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 26 April, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.30 p.m.
