ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u4	On 20 June 2017, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and the Mezzogiorno: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 20 June 2017 laying down urgent provisions for economic growth in the Mezzogiorno" (2860).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u5	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 22 and 23 June 2017 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u6	Madam President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow meets exactly one year after the British referendum held on 23 June last year. It must have been a horrible year for Europe, for the European Union and the forecasts have not been fully respected. We live in a certainly complicated climate, but many of the predictions of those weeks have proved unfounded. A year ago the European Union was, in fact, at the center of a sort of perfect storm due to the exit of a fundamental country like the United Kingdom, one could say a country with reluctant Europeanism, a country that had not naturally joined the euro, but nevertheless a protagonist of the history and economy of our continent, one of the four great European countries. We must also consider the symbolic fact that the European building - which over the decades had gradually grown from the six founding countries to 28 - for the first time saw a member, of this weight and of this influence, decide to leave. We must therefore consider the impact of this referendum, the migration crisis, the effects of the most serious economic crisis after the war and the consequent spread, if we go to review the state of mind of the public debate in Europe, not only of a scepticism towards the European project that, with greater or lesser strength, has always been there over the decades, but of a real distrust or even hostility, of an idea that, in those months, seemed to spread in different European countries and also in Italy, according to which the Union was no longer, as for some decades had been considered, the answer to our problems but, in a sense, it was the origin, the cause of all the evils, the target of all the criticism. Well, a year later we are faced with a different scenario. On Monday, negotiations began formally following the activation of Article 50 of the Treaties for the exit of the United Kingdom and began in an atmosphere in which certainly those who decided to leave did not come to the negotiating table with a particular contractual force. I mean here, incidentally, among other things, that the Italian position is not favourable - since there is such a discussion in Europe - neither to a hard Brexit nor to a soft Brexit. I think that we need to conduct this negotiation with the aim of clarity in the relationship between such an important country and the European Union, and that, for the Italian part, there must be clarity within this clarity on the rights and fate of the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens residing in the United Kingdom. Of course, the way that negotiation begins is a sign of how things have evolved this year. In short, it could be said that Brexit, that unexpected decision, and in some ways historical, rather than a dead bell for the European Union project, was a very strong alarm clock for that project, and perhaps we will remember - who knows - the English vote, rather than the beginning of the end of the EU project, as a wake-up call that put the EU project at the heart of the public debate on our continent. Let us say at least one thing: the Union's project, precisely at its most critical moment, of the perfect storm I mentioned earlier, confirmed its vitality: it remains a central project for our future. In recent days we have mentioned the figure of a great German, Christian-democratic chancellor, Helmut Kohl, to whose memory I believe should also go the tribute of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, and Senators Cervellini and Lucidi.]] Helmut Kohl will be remembered as one of the protagonists of the good part of the twentieth century, which was the century of tragedies but also the century of reconstruction, peace and economic development; it was the century of overcoming dictatorships in the Eastern bloc, of German reunification, of advancing the European path. Helmut Kohl played a key role in this. It will be difficult to forget that image of the very long handshake between Kohl and Mitterand at the Verdun cemetery. More or less twenty-five years ago, in a speech to the French National Assembly, Kohl warned that evil spirits were not banned forever from Europe; every generation is once again tasked with preventing their return. Well, now this task is ours, it is the task of those who govern, of those who have political responsibilities and of those who have responsibilities in general in our societies. Now that the vitality of the project is rediscovered, the task remains to banish the spirits of evil, which led to that first part of the twentieth century that we cannot forget. And I am proud to claim that this vitality of the European project has been encouraged and partly, if you like, discovered here in Rome, in March, on the occasion of that joint declaration for the sixty years of the Treaties of Rome, the Treaties of the Union. It was not a success of the Government: it was a success of the country, of the city, of the symbolic meaning that this city and this country had in the history and construction of the European path. Now we have this responsibility, now that the Union, a quiet superpower (as someone has defined it), has a greater geopolitical space than before, simply because our main ally, who of course remains our main ally, namely the United States, has adopted a line that sees him more focused on the dynamics and the internal dimension and on the economic interests of his country, apparently, at least at this stage, less politically and commercially projected on the global scenarios. The quiet superpower has a space to fill, from the geopolitical point of view, that challenges it. We now have part on our shoulders (not alone, because there is not only the European Union), the task of keeping the road concluded with the Paris agreements in December 2015, which leads to combating climate change, according to a line that we immediately shared with President Macron and Chancellor Merkel, a few hours after the formal decision announced by the United States, to no longer recognize itself in the Paris agreements, according to the line that we have stated with Merkel and Macron about the non-negotiability of these agreements. To say that they are not called into question is to say that they are not called into question. I know very well that the intention of the United States is not to deny the theme of climate change, but to re-examine the economic commitments that the major countries, the richest countries and the most developed areas of the world have put on the funds to contain the effects of climate change in favour of the poorest countries. But that was precisely when it came to negotiating COP 21 in Paris, and that is precisely what we do not intend to renegotiate. So now we have a responsibility to carry this project forward. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has no intention of moving from a phase, which may have been in some part of our public opinion, of demonising the European Union to a phase of euphoria or uncritical exaltation of the European project. The Union's project is certainly more current than ever, but the Union must change. We must have the pride and courage to keep these two elements together, that is, to say with force that we recognize ourselves in the strategic nature of the Union's project, but that at the same time, for this strategic character to survive, grow and develop, we need to change. The Union building needs to be changed. I hope that this mission can also be strengthened by the new French leadership who played part of the election campaign that led President Macron to such a significant success on the subject of the bet on the European Union and its change. Eurozone growth is better than expected, but this means, all the more so, that growth cannot be stifled by rules that have been conceived at a different time, in a time of crisis and difficulty in which it would have been very daring and difficult to imagine a European growth of 2%, the one that is emerging in 2017 and the following years. This growth needs real monetary union, labour and investment policies. I mean, numbers aren't enough and decimals aren't enough. Europe means work, welfare, inclusion and growth: this is what has led to the success of the European model, both in our countries and in those who have entered Europe, and which today determines its ability to attract internationally. Either we bet on these characteristics of a free, democratic and social Europe or we will struggle, after this alarm that has come in recent months, to continue to invest, strengthen and grow the joint project. The Ministers for Economic Affairs of France, Germany and Italy will discuss this in mid-July in Rome. For us this remains the fundamental commitment: we have been saying this for years and we hope to say it more and more in good company, so that it is no longer just an Italian battle, or considered a battle of some countries that are economically more in difficulty, but become a potentially major European battle. Europe must change, we must have the strength to make it change. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD, ALA-SCCLP and Senator Naccarato]] In this political panorama, tomorrow's and the day after tomorrow's Council will focus in particular on two issues: the first is the question of security and defence, which is, of course, of dramatic topical importance. The international context and circumstances urge governments and the Union to be more active and present in the field of security. The horrible attacks that struck Manchester and London and what yesterday, although failed, hit Brussels again, where the European Council will meet, tell us that the threat is common and needs common answers. These responses, which relate on the one hand to control and on the other hand to the reduction of radicalisation linked to Islamic fundamentalism, from which terrorist threats arise, must be countered at European level on two levels. On the one hand, certainly by perfecting - and the European Council will deal with this - some very specific measures for the exchange of information on travel and entry and exit on European territory; on the other - and finally, I say - also in the wake of that statement by Taormina that the G7 issued a month ago, trying to increase the pressure (and finally to achieve some results) on the great players of the web in relation to the phenomena of radicalisation. Such phenomena can be identified and opposed by those who hold the keys to such an impressive number of data, in such a global context as that of social networks. The network, which is the tool of our freedom, cannot become the breeding ground of the threat to our security. In this regard, the Taormina Declaration will be taken up by the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and I believe that we must be - with all due respect for the freedom of enterprise - very demanding towards the great players of the Internet. It is not possible, in fact, that we cultivate, through this magnificent instrument of freedom, the threat to our security. [[Applause from the PD, FI and AP groups and Senator Naccarato]] I believe that defence will take place in the Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow - and we will be fighting for this - a further small step forward (small steps are being taken and there is no point in deceiving ourselves and not seeing the gradual nature of this path) on the ground of greater and more integrated European defence. As you know, the Commission has proposed a common European defence fund. His president, Juncker, spoke of the possibility, through this joint defence fund, of saving between 25 and 100 billion euros, depending on the intensity and pace at which he will work in this direction in the budgets of the different countries on defence. We are, therefore, talking about something important, not only, of course, from a geopolitical point of view (the quiet superpower, which occupies a geopolitical space that can be left empty and needs to be occupied, because the spaces in global politics do not remain empty), but also for the possible budgetary economies that can come from this integration. I claim that the Government, together with the Governments of the other three major European countries, at a meeting in Versailles between the four Heads of Government of Italy, Spain, France and Germany, has been at the forefront of proposing this element. We have discussed a great deal here on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome on the issue of Europe at different levels of integration. Well, that idea was launched precisely at the meeting of those four Heads of State and Government in Versailles and centred on the objective of common defence; common defence as a ground on which this Europe at different levels of integration, without changing the Treaties, can take steps forward and I believe it must do so. The second issue, alongside that of security and defence, which is central to the European Council in the next two days is immigration. I believe that we must honestly say that, despite a few steps forward, the speed at which the European Union moves on the ground of common immigration policies remains dramatically below the requirements of government and management of this phenomenon. We must have the courage to say so and we will also say so openly in Brussels. Of course, it could be claimed that some results have been achieved, at least on symbolic ground. In this very Chamber I spoke a few months ago about the fact that the idea of a kind of Europe with two different rigidities was unacceptable for Italy. A total, absolute and maximum rigidity when it comes to addressing budgetary rules issues and a totally flexible, almost non-existent rigidity when it comes to meeting common commitments on the ground of immigration. We could not accept this idea and I am pleased that the European Commission announced a week ago the opening of an infringement procedure against those three European countries, which explicitly stated that they did not want to accept the commitments, which were signed by the European Council, which should be binding on everyone. However, I do not think we can console ourselves with this moral satisfaction, which will certainly contribute, at least in part. We need to move much faster towards a common policy; I am thinking of the common policy that Italy has proposed towards Africa. President Napolitano did well a few days ago to recall the importance of the relationship between the European Union and Africa, which will naturally accompany us in the coming decades. Moreover, more must be done with regard to the efforts that Italy has put in place in relation to Libya. We have opened a path: I want to say it very openly to the senators and senators. We have also done so by taking our responsibilities as a country, in opening an embassy, in concluding agreements with a government whose fragility is well known, in concluding agreements with the tribes that control the southern part, on the border with Niger, in investing in these agreements and in working to strengthen the coastguard, which is headed by President Serraj, in moving in this direction and in seeing that some first results come from this direction. In fact, the Libyan Coast Guard, which is headed by the Presidential Council, has recovered a few thousand migrants in recent weeks: it is a new fact, that we must not "banish" or exalt too much, but that indicates that a road has been opened. What we want to know from the European Union is whether, on this path that Italy has opened, there is the European Union behind us, with its resources and with its political commitment, or whether we must continue to manage on our own. Italy is able to handle this issue, albeit with increasing difficulties, and to the Government are certainly not unknown, but Europe, if it wants to regain its vitality, if it wants to change, if it wants to bet on its future, as well as having policies that accompany growth, investment and work, must have a common migration policy. This is what we expect in Brussels, and we will also do so at the European Council in the coming days. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senator Naccarato]] Finally, there is a note in the margins of the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, which is of considerable importance to our country, although I believe it will be dealt with in a marginal way, because it is not a matter of making decisions, but of discussing the criteria, but it is useful for the Senate to be informed. The margin note concerns the decision on the criteria to be adopted for the transfer from London to European Union countries mainly of two major Agencies, currently based in London. We are talking about the European Banking Authority and the European Medicines Agency. We are aware of having with the city of Milan, for many reasons that the Senate knows very well, all the papers in order, not only from the point of view of the importance of the pharmaceutical supply chain in Milan and Italy, but also from the point of view of the quality of life, the reception, the logistics, the transports, the seat that could potentially host this Agency; we think we have a competitive dossier. The thrust that we will try to give the European Council - I say this simply and I think that we understand each other - is that this decision should take place on the basis of the technical quality of the proposals and of the advanced dossiers, and not on the basis of a logic of some internal compensation to this or that group of European countries, which would certainly not do well to the sector for which this agency is responsible. So we, having a competitive and strong candidacy, will try to direct the choice in another direction. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Senators Floris and Naccarato]] It is a commitment that will see together the Government, the authorities of the city and the Region, and a working group led by Professor Moavero Milanesi has been dealing with it for many weeks. It is clear, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that we are at a juncture for Europe of great interest. There was no collapse that many had feared or hoped for (depending on taste), but there must be no illusion that Europe has managed, that it is going well, that it is going on in the established tracks. Precisely because there was no such collapse, now is the time to invest to change, to grow the European project. This year a great British intellectual received the Carlo Magno award, Timothy Garton Ash, and in receiving it he defined Europe as perpetually unfinished and therefore - he added, perhaps optimistically - also forever and forever young. I do not know whether it is true that the fact of being unfinished gives a youthful dynamism to the European Union's project, but I know that we must aim at this; I know that there is a great opportunity at the moment for the European Union for economic, political and geopolitical reasons, and I know that, if it has the support of Parliament, of course with the obvious distinctions between majority and opposition, the Italian Government in this great opportunity will be able to play the role of one of the great founding countries. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Senators Floris and Naccarato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u7	Motions for resolutions must be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u8	Colleagues, we greet the students of the Faculty of Law of the University of Innsbruck, who are our guests. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u9	I declare open the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u10	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my deepest appreciation to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the dignity with which you are representing Italy in the international context, for the respect you enjoy, of which we all receive the echoes, and for the effectiveness with which you carry out this action. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD Groups]] With reference to your report this morning, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must say that I share both the analysis and the tonalities and the political impetus you have given to it. I would like to quickly touch on three points, all of a strictly political nature. As for the first, in fact, as you have explained, one year after the vote in the British referendum, we have seen - we hope it will continue and this will require everyone's effort - a real recovery from the European Union. What I would like to stress, however, is that this has not only been done by the heads of the governments of the Member States, much more united than we could have imagined in the way of negotiating with the United Kingdom. In my opinion, it is mainly the people who, of course, have reflected a lot on the consequences that are already emerging for the exit of that country: consequences in that country, from the disruption of the political-administrative system, to the total uncertainty in which the United Kingdom, unfortunately for all of us (as well as for them), has fallen. This is reflected in what we might call the prevalence, recorded this year, of the "antibody effect" compared to the "contagion effect." In fact, Brexit feared the infection from Brexit, while Brexit unleashed a number of antibodies, not only in the behavior of the political leaders of the states, but also in the citizens. We see this in all opinion polls as regards the increased - not diminished - degree of support expressed by the probes towards membership of both the European Union and the euro. This is a matter of thought and I think it is a matter of concern and I know that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are following this aspect (although some Members are distracting you at the moment). It must be a matter of reflection and concern that, out of the 27 remaining Member States, there is only one where public opinion has become no longer, but less favourable to the European Union and the euro in the year following Brexit, and this Member State is Italy. I believe that this deserves special consideration. As for the second point that I want to touch, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said - these are your words - that Europe must change and that we must have the strength to change it. This force comes from governments and parliaments. In this regard, I would like to suggest that you encourage the Italian Parliament more to give this strength. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, come to us regularly, in a way that we find very interesting (and we hope that you will find interesting for the Government the stimulus that can come from here) on individual "doses" of European life: the individual meetings of the European Council. Already this is very useful. We know, however, that the Commission has launched a process with Juncker's White Paper and the five documents that are written in the perspective of the White Paper (the last of which will be published on 28 June and will be on the budget of the European Union) and that you, Heads of Government, at the European Council next December, will have to draw conclusions in terms of decisions on the future of Europe. I think, as I have already mentioned on a previous occasion, that the Senate and the House should be able to make a greater and more systematic contribution to the preparation of the Italian position in this process of change of Europe, so I give this point to the reflection of the Presidency of the Senate and the Government. The third and final point concerns the personality you have mentioned and the famous image of the long handshake of Chancellor Kohl and President Miterrand. On this line, I would like to recall to the memory of all a gesture perhaps even more significant on the German side, stimulated by the Italian side. It was March 24, 2013, President Napolitano had invited Federal President Gauck to the most difficult place for a German, Sant'Anna di Stazzema, where on August 12, 1944 560 civilians had been slaughtered in one of the most horrendous massacres. There was a hug between President Napolitano and President Gauck, in what was probably the last public act of the first Napolitano presidency. President Gauck said it wasn't easy for a German to be in Sant'Anna di Stazzema, but he came to apologize. In the final mention of Chancellor Kohl, you have brought to the memory of all of us as a great builder not only of a united Germany, but also of a more united Europe. In my opinion, there is a reflection to be drawn: it was because, at the height of power, it did not hesitate to run the risk of losing an election, as happened in 1998, in front of a candidate, Schröder, who at that time was opposed to the single European currency (although he also did remarkable things, later on, in this sense). Kohl knew he was in danger of losing, but without that sacrifice he would not take that position in history today and European integration would be considerably further behind. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Art.1-MDP. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u11	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u12	Madam President, the President-in-Office of the Council has drawn us up the scenario for a new global framework that has emerged over the last year and I believe that tomorrow's European Council is very significant, because it is the first one that takes place after some events that, for better or worse, I believe can together represent the catalyst capable of pushing Europe towards a new phase in its history. The Taormina G7, held after the victory of Trump and Brexit, and the victory of Emmanuel Macron in France redesigned transatlantic relations and made what was clear for some time, namely that Europe will have to assume more and more responsibility for its own security and defence and that in order to do so it will have to speed up the process of political and economic integration. Mrs Merkel, who will presumably continue to lead Germany in the coming years, is fully aware of this and the new French course that is born under the pro-European sign and the charismatic figure of the young Macron can lead to an evolution of the public opinions of the most reluctant European states. Just starting from these considerations, yesterday Anthony Giddens, interviewed by the Republic, expressed the certainty that Europe will end up regaining its global role. Personally, however, I am not convinced, as Anthony Giddens said, that the Franco-German axis alone will give back the push in this direction, because after Brexit Germany in a one-to-one relationship with France is still too strong and because France alone would not be able to redirect Europe towards the new objectives that Macron has indicated for a Europe that wants to regain popular and democratic legitimacy. I am referring to the objectives of growth, employment and the fight against inequalities, to be pursued through policies and reforms that take responsibility for those who are affected or risk being excluded from the processes of globalisation and the impact of the digital revolution. Innovation and protection. This is the combination that I believe should be the compass of European and national policies today. In order to do this, we need Italy, a strong Franco-Italian axis; an axis that is desirable is already manifested by the European Council of tomorrow, which has on the agenda, as you have pointed out and as you have explained to us a great deal, some of the most important dossiers, on which a renewed Europeanist push can be concretely manifested, even with the timing and graduality proper of the European institutions. The first point, perhaps the most important, concerns European defence and security, in which the draft conclusions clearly express the commitment to act on the rules of the Treaty on European Union relating to permanent structured cooperation, thus giving, as you mentioned in your introduction, a concrete follow-up to the commitments entered into in Rome on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome and for which your Government and you personally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have worked so hard. However, the acceleration towards the integration of European defence is dictated not only by the change in the global scenario, but also by the fact that Germany, for its part pragmatically and in a very small way, is integrating its armed forces with those of some Eastern European countries. It is therefore appropriate and, indeed, essential if we are to avoid a unilateral re-armament (especially after Brexit), that the process I mentioned earlier should develop within the framework of the European Union. Moreover, this commitment, alongside that for the acceleration of the programme for the development of the European defence industry, supported by the activation of the European Defence Fund to which you referred, may also have important repercussions for Italian industry, especially in the field of aerospace. Beyond the events that have involved you, I personally consider it a real pity that the French Minister of Defence Sylvie Goulard had to resign yesterday, because as a passionate and determined Europeanist, which would certainly have speeded up European defence integration. I believe, however, that even the choice of Mr Goulard as Minister of Defence had well represented President Macron's indication of this dossier, which we hope will be confirmed in the Council tomorrow. The second point you referred to as the central issue of the Council over the next two days is migration policies, which is obviously of crucial interest to Italy. On this point, even if you will not arrive at conclusive and concrete determinations since the rhythms are so slow, let's still try to see the glass half full. It is in fact significant that the draft final document reiterates, as Italy has argued, the unitary nature of the issue and reaffirms its commitment to a comprehensive approach by the European Union to migration. In other words, it would not be acceptable, particularly for Italy and Greece, to separate the solution of the individual points, as would the Visegrad Group, referring back the most controversial but essential issue, namely that of the revision of the Dublin Agreement, and removing other points that are more important to other countries such as the European dactyloscopy (Eurodac) or the European Asylum Support Office. It will then be politically very significant if, as it seems, the final document reiterates the invitation to the Commission to alleviate the burden on the Member States at the forefront in the management of refugees and underlines that the entire reform of the European asylum system must strike the right balance between responsibility and solidarity and ensure resilience to future crises. This is the point on which Europe must show that it understands what its future is, what the role of the Mediterranean is, what is the scenario in the next century in the process of global migration that affects the whole of the North of our world. These statements, when taken together with the Commission's decision to open infringement proceedings against countries that have refused to accept their share of refugees, mark a change in Europe's attitude to the issues of managing migration flows. And this is certainly a merit of the Renzi Government and the Silveri Gentiloni Government. Since my time is running out, one last point I think should be devoted to a chapter which is marginal in the Council but which will be important in the coming months. I am referring to the guidelines for economic policies to be adopted in the next two years, which will then be developed by the Finance Ministers in July, not only reaffirming the sustainable development strategy linked to the Paris agreements but also indicating the path of reforms for competitiveness and growth on which Italy has committed itself in recent years with great determination. We must support the recovery of the European economy and that is why the package of actions is very nutritious and challenging. On one point, however, Italy must insist in all the fora and in all the forms, also with a view to a discussion of the fiscal compact: Italy will have to fight for public and private investment to be relaunched, both internally and by the European Commission. This objective must be guided by the greater flexibility that this requires, and a major European plan will have to be pursued to multiply the size and instruments of the Juncker plan. Because we can make all possible reforms, but without investment it will not share growth, without growth it will not share jobs and without work it will not share confidence in Europe: confidence that it is the lifeblood necessary to give new impetus to the European project. In this work of relaunching the European perspective - and I agree with President Monti here - Parliament must play an important role and together we must find the forms and ways for a stronger and more intense involvement of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Dalla Tor.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u13	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u14	Madam President, I shall try to live up to a European commitment, first and foremost by staying at European times. Allow me, at the beginning of my brief speech, to join in the words of President Gentiloni Silveri and President Monti in the memory of a great European and a great friend of Italy, Helmut Kohl. In the afternoon of 4 July, on the initiative of President Grasso and also of myself, we will commemorate him in the Senate and President Napolitano will be among the main speakers, as it is right that it is. I believe that the Italian Parliament owes a special tribute to Helmut Kohl and I would like to say that Italy also owes him a tribute because Helmut Kohl, in the fundamental passages in which many theorized a narrow and closed Europe compared to Italy's ability to play a leading role, has always wanted to defend the essential role of our country in Europe. We often see the Germans - let us be frank - as some of the executioners, considering the constant appeal they make to the Italian public accounts and to the policy of rigour. At times, however, we must try to put ourselves in the shoes of others and understand the relationship between the German rulers and their public opinion. However, as far as the single currency is concerned, I remember Ciampi's confidences, which are very clear in this regard: Mr Kohl was instrumental in ensuring that Italy was not excluded from the core of the single currency. He was truly a great friend of Italy and, above all, a man who, as President Monti recalled, was able to sacrifice his political destiny to a stronger ideal, which was that of Europe. Therefore, on 4 July, I believe that this tribute from the Italian Parliament is necessary and necessary. President Gentiloni Silveri today reminded us of the vitality of the European project. I believe that in geopolitical terms we must consider two things, that is, what happened with Brexit and the election of Trump to the presidency of the United States, and then we must relate these two events, which apparently could weaken Europe, to the victory of Macron in France and to what is emerging in the German scenario, to a confirmation of Mrs Merkel. Well, I believe that, as always in history, facts that apparently could weaken Europe have actually put European rulers in front of their responsibilities: the alibis have fallen. We cannot continue to bask, for example on European defence, on the alleged British coldness, because today the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union requires us to assume responsibility and so we are the creators of our destiny, we find it entirely in our hands. Trump's weakening of the traditional convergence between the United States and Europe must also be considered (I say this in parenthesis that the Atlantic link is a genetic element for Europe that no one can question and in fact no one wants to question it). These two facts have put European rulers and European public opinion in front of their responsibilities. I am convinced of one thing and I say it clearly: the broad outlines of politics, including national policy, today pass through the subject of Europe. We cannot be "eurothymids." Macron has clearly shown, in a country that is historically sceptical of Europe, that anti-Europeanism is not fought by winking at anti-Europeans one day yes and one no and following them on their land. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Dalla Tor]] Anti-Europeanism is being fought by affirming the inevitability for our national destinies of the European project. We must have a supplement of pride and we must have it regardless of the traditional political positions we represent in this House. There is a thread linking the great European political families, a thread linking the families of European socialism, European popularism and other liberal families who have always identified themselves in the European message. So Europe must not be just the Cerbero - sometimes the position is uncomfortable but it must - with respect to our public accounts but must relaunch the theme - to which Gentiloni Silveri, as well as Renzi previously, necessarily is very fond and we all are - of a battle for growth and, at the same time, must be able to proceed, with different levels of integration, for example with the profile of defence and security. I would like to add a comment. There is a link between security and defence and immigration. We have two issues: security and defence, on the one hand, and immigration, on the other. Let us be clear, apart from the fact that we are in favour of a policy of ius solo or reception. You know my positions but there is no doubt that today we are experiencing a very strong invasion and that public opinion - all public opinion - is disconcerted and we struggle to manage the migratory flows (just think of the acrobatics of the prefects in the center and the reactions of the mayors to the distributions of immigrants on national territory). Colleagues, if that is true, the link between security and defence policy and immigration has one word: it is called Africa. The theme is Africa: we must go there to make a policy, as Renzi himself suggested with the migration compact. That is where we have to have an impact; in a Mediterranean policy that has often been lacking in Europe. Europe has had a thousand parliamentary assemblies on the Euro-Mediterranean, but in reality it is enough to think about the allocation of resources in the Mediterranean to understand that it has done little or nothing. Colleagues, we want to help them at home, but when Tunisian oil can be marketed in Europe, we are done because we have to close our borders. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I should like to say a few words about this: we are every other day criticizing Trump's policy because it cancels the possibility of trade agreements with Europe, but then - I see it in my Commission with regard to CETA - when we make a treaty like that with Canada (in which we have a surplus of exports) it is we or the individual Italian categories that challenge it for many small corporate reasons. We are not here, ladies and gentlemen: a ruling class must choose the part to be on otherwise it cannot criticize everything and its opposite. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Dalla Tore Fravezzi]] If that is true, Africa is the fundamental point and that is what we can play a leading role in Italy, but we cannot do anything on our own. I see encouraging signs not only for our policy. I really appreciate what Alfano and Minniti are doing in sub-Saharan Africa (because it is from there that you have to close the taps or to stabilize the Libyan Government) but the real point is that I see what other countries are doing. In view of the G20, for example, Merkel has done a serious thing about Africa, because all of them, touched - unfortunately for them and in a certain sense finally - by a problem that previously concerned only us, today understand that we have to go there to bring cooperation. President Gentiloni Silveri, you have outlined a programme and we share it. Never as at this time and as in these years on foreign policy there is a sharing of Parliament. Good job, we're with you. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD, PD and Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u16	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for your kind tone and for the clarity of your arguments. It is not a question of form: respect for Parliament is the condition for the confrontation between oppositions and the majority to be profitable. You are right, Mr President, when you say that a lot of water has passed in the last year. The powerful forces that wanted Brexit today are much weaker, but, President, should have added that the new man in Britain, Jeremy Corbyn (who, according to all the polls, would win the election and enter Downing Street if May resigned) strongly criticizes the social policies and labour market reforms that were imposed on Germany and Italy and that Macron wants to implement in France. You see, President, your government has a historic opportunity: the crisis of globalization that has fallen back on itself giving space to the grim confrontation between nationalisms: Trump and Putin, Xi Jinping, Shinzo Abe and Modi. This crisis seems to have a temporary fall in Europe first of all in the construction of a Bonapartist regime in France (the definition is by Sergio Romano, not mine). A democratic regime, however - it would be a pity - has been voted in that country - but a form of democracy that the French have not even known under the Fifth Republic. The important novelty, however, is that the French ruling classes are convinced today that the grandeur can be declined in Europe and with Europe. This is an opportunity for us objectively. The other novelty that Mario Monti mentioned in his speech is the continuity and evolution of the German political line, the way to decline the German interest in Europe. There, more than the alternation, the game seems to be an evolution within a party-regime, and it is likely that Angela Merkel will win the elections in the autumn and that she will decide - just her own, the vestal of rigour - to reinvest a part of the German surplus by not giving higher salaries to the German workers - the ruling classes in Germany do not want to question the structure of the two labour markets that according to them is fundamental - but by financing more generously those Mediterranean countries than even the Germans, as we know, consider to be skilful. So Italy's margins to build its economic policy and to count in Europe during its Government will be much wider. However, President Gentiloni Siveri, we need a strong proposal: in this world context we cannot just play side by side. This strong proposal must have the courage not to beat the punches on the table, as the fugitives do, but to tell frankly to French and Germans that part of our public debt must be restructured, offering in exchange an innovative policy, that no longer uses bonuses and electoral gifts that have increased deficits and debt, but that it starts a real recovery, widening the tax base in this country. How? First of all, by fighting corruption, by fighting evasion, by fighting the habit for which an important part of public spending ends up feeding, because of bribes, the parasitic intermediary forces, the worst forces of our national bourgeoisie. This should be the deal. And if that were the contract with Europe, the word of Italy in Europe would count, just as Spain is beginning to count, that it will probably archive its Government of national unity. You know that Sanchez, the man with the white shirt, today chooses the alliance with Podemos and changes the structure of his country, also opening up to the Catalan forces, which the centralist and corrupt government of Rajoy will never do. It takes courage, Mr President-in-Office. You said your government is fragile. That's true, but you can do a lot. We come quickly to the two issues under discussion in the Council. As far as common defence is concerned, Mr President, the first thing to do at this stage is to talk about peace. More than an increase in common military spending, diplomacy is needed. There is one point that you elude: Donald Trump's policy. Donald Trump in the Middle East is preparing a war, with his indiscriminate support for Saudi Arabia, a war of Sunnis against Shiites, which could be a war of uncontrollable proportions. We are very careful about the kind of relationship between American military and Russian military in that scenario (and not just in that). Taking away from Trump is not an ideological position, but it is the condition for building that Europe you are talking about. Just as another condition is the end of sanctions against Russia, not because we accept a regime that is authoritarian (democratic, but authoritarian) and that violates civil rights, but because those sanctions are linked to an idea of the cold war that has deceived the countries of Eastern Europe (among other things moving them all to the right, so that today they represent a danger to the Union itself) that they would have an umbrella that we cannot afford, because Europe will exist only if it is strongly autonomous from Russia, but also from the United States. You have spoken of immigration, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but you know that the real solution to the problem depends on our ability to block the war in the Middle East, before it breaks out and spreads, and on Europe's capacity as such to take extraordinary action, not of solidarity or assistance, but of economic development intervention, which is in the interests of Europe, on that great continent which is Africa. This is the structural solution. I shall conclude, Mr President. You said your government is fragile. He cannot but be, since the secretary of his own party believes he has the right to take his place, having won the primary. But you have a great task: you can encourage the debate on the real prospects of our country and Europe. If he does, Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, in the benches of the Italian Left, force of opposition, will certainly find a loyal interlocutor. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u18	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as some of my colleagues have already said, you have great strength in the weakness of your government. Of course, on yesterday's vouchers and Consip motions, its majority did not make a good impression. On the contrary - let's face it - we have made an international figure and it is mainly thanks to the absence targeted by many Senators of Forza Italia and to our silent, but effective presence, that you are still in office. You must have more courage in the area of reforms, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because we are there if you bring us reforms that resolve the problems of the country. President Casini in his speech sees pink (blessed him), while we see in his action "fifty shades of green" that are the hope that she brings us, but that then does not materialize in obvious results. I tell you this because you will participate tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in the European Council, in which you will have to discuss the developments of Brexit and the transfer of EU agencies currently present on the territory of the United Kingdom, in particular the European Medicines Agency - which you have already mentioned - whose different geographical location Italy is particularly interested in. And it must not consider this a marginal issue, because it is substantial for us. The issues that you will be discussing will have to concern - on the one hand - the necessary measures to be taken to curb migratory flows, especially along the Central Mediterranean route and, on the other hand, the transfer of the European Medicines Agency to Italian territory, as I have just said. This must be done in the light of the fact that Brexit produces a profound change in the Italian financial balance due to the link between the Italian Stock Exchange and the City of London, the London Stock Exchange, in particular with regard to the electronic platform governing the bargaining of government bonds, which it did not mention in its report. I invite you to show your strong fist in the European Council, because we need our GDP to be reconsidered in the light of the different coefficients of elasticity that govern the relations between the different components of public expenditure: in particular investment, the reduction of the tax burden, deburocratization, the intervention on malasanity and malajustice and underlying economic growth, from which greater development can result a reduction of that ratio thanks to greater growth of the denominator. For Italy - as you said - the most urgent problem is, of course, to curb migratory flows: The management of the flows of migrants and asylum seekers to the countries of the Union is an unprecedented challenge that Europe faces today on the ground of freedom of movement for persons, respect for human rights and the security of European citizens. It is a systemic crisis to which a common European response must be provided through common border management. This humanitarian catastrophe becomes huge considering that the number of unaccompanied minors exceeded 25,000 in 2016, and we are already almost 3,000 in the first three months of 2017, and that the presence of women, often in an interesting state, contributes to further dramatize the situation for the particular physical and psychological violence to which they are subjected. For Italy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the problem is aggravated by its particular economic conditions: from being still struggling - the only European country - with an economic crisis that has not been overcome, but that, at the current rates of development - as recalled by the Governor of the Bank of Italy in his final report and confirmed by the delegation of the International Monetary Fund in his recent visit to our country - the levels of well-being of 2007 will be reached only in the second half of the next decade, after twenty years. Mr President, I am not reminding you of the radical criticism of the fiscal compact, which you must renegotiate. A country like ours, which has an unemployment rate of more than 11%, has little to offer in terms of employment for such a large number of migrants. The result is the inevitable ghettoization of those who land on the national territory, with the proliferation of illegal activities, from begging to prostitution, to the traffics that generate the greatest social alarm between increasing layers of the entire population, of which the same regular migrants are part. You said that Europe must change and we must have the strength to do so. He's right, but we also need strength within his country, with a cohesive majority, which we don't see. Such complex problems can only be dealt with in a European way, starting with a revision of the Dublin Convention, whose rules, Mr President, have proved inadequate in the face of a problem whose characteristics were those mentioned. Of particular importance, therefore, is the intention, on the agenda of the European Council, to reform the Common European Asylum System, including the principles of responsibility and solidarity. This, Mr President, must be harmonized with our ius soli and harmonization must prevent an anomaly between us and the contradictions of the Dublin Convention, which fuel the risk of further concentration on the Italian shores of migratory flows. Moreover, it would seem completely contradictory, not to say embarrassing, to speak - on the one hand - of the systemic crisis to which a common European response must be given, as indicated in the DEF ratified by an Italian Parliament vote and, on the other hand, to proceed in a solitary manner on the eve of a European Council that should deal with the overall reform of the reception system; a contradiction that would contribute to a strong fall in the negotiating power of the Italian delegation. Mr President, we invite you to have the courage to bring Italy's strength to the European Council in order to ensure that Europe, united, has the strength to overcome all the problems that we face and that need to be resolved. We are convinced that, with a strong majority in your national Parliament too, you will have more strength and courage to solve our problems. Congratulations, President. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u20	Mr Gentiloni Silveri, we have listened very carefully to your report, appreciating its breadth, the depth of analysis, the grace that belongs to your decisive personality, but above all the intention of drawing a line without losing sight of the objective difficulties. We cannot, however, fail to grasp the continuing confusion and - I would say - the pervicacious will to glitter over the climate. Still in Europe we are at the level where leaders will discuss the root causes of migration and the tools to address them. It seems to me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we are moving in a situation which requires speed and timing, because, as we reason, migratory flows along the Central Mediterranean routes do not stop, do not desist; a phenomenon that is particularly close to our heart and which has seen our country, especially the southern regions, in the front line; a phenomenon that has often and willingly been underestimated by other European countries. How many times, right here in this House, have we stressed the political responsibility of the European Union and launched strong calls to national governments to highlight, on all occasions, the absence of Europe first and then its insufficient response. How many costly and inadequate operations in terms of reception and emergency management we have seen. How many times we have had to admit with dismay, right here in this House, that, on the front of migratory flows, our country had not achieved the desired results: in fact, the landings have increased a hundredfold, as well as the tragedies of the sea, the shipwrecks and the reception centres, which are in semi-collapse condition, especially in our South. We have become convinced that Europe's policy on migration has never been cohesive, unambiguous, clear, but has been constantly changing and catching up. We have often heard complaints in this House about the European Union's proposals which are very wrong and inadequate in order to deal with such a massive crisis. The numbers at our disposal, in fact, speak clearly of a phenomenon that cannot be stopped, even elevating walls. However, it is a phenomenon that can and must be managed, looking at the centrality of the human person and also keeping our eyes open to counter the horrendous pockets of evil, exploitation and corruption, which have come to light, to the sides of the migratory phenomenon: the illicit trafficking of people, but also the exasperation of the humanitarian aid business, as well as the inexplicable delays in the procedures of recognition of refugee status and, again, the systems specifically organized to promote illegal immigration. Topics such as the readmission agreement, relocation and resettlement are now highly bureaucratic, cumbersome, ineffective and unsatisfactory instruments. Similarly, it is absolutely necessary to reform the Common European Asylum System. We are aware of the controversial aspects of the EU-Turkey Declaration, whereby expulsions to Turkey are possible for the European Union, which, however, is not to be considered a "safe country" for asylum seekers, in the existence of the rule of the so-called "one-to-one" programme, for which, for every Syrian in an irregular position that the European Union expels to Turkey, this State will send another Syrian refugee to Europe. This programme has raised serious legal problems, since it discriminates between Syrians and asylum seekers of other nationalities and is morally questionable, insofar as it generates a sort of "trade" of human beings. In short, Mr President, there is a serious change of direction and we hope that the European Council in the coming days will feel the need for it, even if it will allow us to have some distrust of it. But it is not only wars and migrations that worry, but also the world economy. The Europe of austerity, of the single currency, of the tetragon rigor has shown all its limits. This type of policy does not work: it obviously does not work from the point of view of the real economy, as shown by the data on GDP growth; but it does not work from a purely financial point of view either. What good is the imposition of all these sacrifices, if then the public debt grows to a far greater extent than the savings that can be obtained? What about the asymmetries that characterize the different countries of the eurozone? Mr President, there are unbearable differences and it is not acceptable that in some countries unemployment should be at historic lows, while in other countries it should be at record levels. All of this translates into a word for the European Union, i.e. fragility. On this point too, the European Council should seriously debate and should do so on the need for selfishness not to prevail among its partners, but the need for everyone to give up something in order to converge on a shared policy in which each strong country takes on the burdens of the weaker one. Employment, growth and competitiveness are words on the agenda of the next European Council. But, in order not to be empty concepts, we need a more energetic stance than our country and a certain awareness of our duties, but also of our rights, which are then the rights of millions of citizens that we represent in the institutions. For these reasons, we would like to be more confident and hopeful, as it is right for all of us who are called to make an effective contribution to the growth of the European Union. But allow me, Mr President, to insist on Italy's interest in putting at the European table the obligation to resettle and re-examine our commitments and the history of the European Community as outlined over the decades. We are not Eurosceptics, on the contrary we are firmly Europeanists. But we are Euro-reasoners: we demand, in the name of the ideals and principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, to re-examine the new financial policies, to deepen our visions on industrial and manufacturing policies, to enhance local productions, to re-examine banking policies to combat old and new poverty and widespread poverty caused by the long and lasting socio-economic and financial crisis. Otherwise, the professor's predictions that you mentioned, awarded this year's Charlemagne Prize, would be confirmed. Instead, we cling to the wishes of Pope Francis who, just a few days ago, particularly urged Germany to dialogue on the capacity for integration. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, the last rounds of elections have also recorded a setback by the populist forces. Macron's victory and also the bad outcome in the UK of Farage, which had been one of Brexit's main architects, are an important prerequisite for giving Europe the new momentum that it deeply needs. The election results are accompanied by forecasts of the development of the European economy and the fact that the euro area as a whole is characterised by slow but steady growth, with good levels of confidence which, if accompanied by targeted policies, can lead to an increase in expenditure and investment. I believe that all this puts our country in a position to make its voice heard, starting with the problem of immigration. As autonomousists, in recent years, we have always supported and shared the way in which this Government and those who preceded it have moved in Europe. We believe that a weak Europe, crossed by centripetal forces, is going to damage especially countries like ours. We need Europe, but we need - as you said, Mr President - a different Europe, closer to the demands of its peoples, sensitive to the loss of an epochal phenomenon such as immigration, careful to cure the wounds and lacerations that the hard years of the economic crisis have inflicted on our social, economic and entrepreneurial fabric. Despite some generous efforts, despite many declarations of intent, the picture has not yet reached the radical reversal of course that we all hope for. Just last week in this House we were discussing the motions for resolutions on the common agricultural policy, highlighting how a model based on competitiveness and innovation prefers one that favours position income, the area instead of quality. It is just an example and others could be made, but it gives good the figure of a cold and impersonal institution, perceived as too distant from the lives and needs of so many of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs; an institution that - we agree with you - must not be content with the decimals of sign more to the gross domestic product. We believe in a Europe that focuses on competitiveness and removes small and large obstacles, just as it has been done with roaming; a Europe that puts work at the centre of a common policy for industrial development and relaunching the manufacturing sector, which has been hit hard during the years of the crisis; a Europe that is measured by the challenges of industry 4.0, the Internet of Things with the development of 5G technology, which is at the forefront of the ground of innovation and the construction of the digital single market; a Europe that listens to the concerns of our farmers for the repercussions that an agreement such as CETA can have on the production of wheat and the quality of the products that end up on the table; a Europe that faces together in the fight against terrorism, including through the involvement of the multinationals of the web, and does not escape from a collegial management of migratory flows. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have very much appreciated your frankness on this point, as well as the news of the opening of the infringement procedure for three countries which do not respect common decisions. Since the beginning of the year 71,000 people have arrived by sea in our continent, of which 60,000 have landed in Italy. Compared to the first months of last year, there has been a growth of 26% and, unfortunately, the number of unaccompanied minors has also increased. For this reason, we welcomed the provision by Minister Minniti that finally accelerates the procedures of recognition and repatriation, but also the law that protects unaccompanied minors. I mention the two measures together, because they give a proper approach to the problem, that is to respond pragmatically to the questions, without losing the values of human solidarity, but also the need to equip ourselves with more certain rules and, above all, to enforce them. We agree with you, Mr President-in-Office, also on how we are working in Libya to tackle the problem of departures. The first concrete effects of the agreement were already seen in May, as the Libyan Coast Guard began to intercept and bring back several migrant boats. However, we must also mention the commitment to establish bilateral agreements with the countries of origin to make the return machine more efficient. It is clear that this strategy still lacks the European component, which is decisive and concerns the institutional stabilisation of Libya, which is more necessary than ever to achieve the goal of closing the corridor leading up to the Italian coasts. But it is also the part of the right to European asylum, because the emergency cannot be discharged only on the landing countries like ours and the agreement signed at the time with Turkey cannot be sufficient. The relocation of refugees, with a fair distribution in all European countries, has affected, from 2015 to today, only 20,000 people, equal to a poor 20 percent, against agreements that concerned 160,000 people in the first battle, number subsequently reduced to 98,000. It is now discussed whether to decrease the number again, bringing it to just 33,000. We need to make our voice heard, reaffirming that from here much of Europe's credibility is passed in the eyes of the whole world. The US position on the Paris agreements, relations between the United States, Russia and China and the growing terrorist threat call on Europe to play a leading role and become an element of stabilisation and security in the world. For this reason, the reasons of our European Union must be reiterated, in the wake of what was done here in Rome last March to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties. However, that spirit which has been mentioned several times during the anniversaries must be lived day by day, through a strong principle of solidarity and cohesion between the Member States. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we ask you to continue courageously in this direction, which our Government has also interpreted well at the Taormina Summit. Last Saturday, at the Shrine of Castel Dante in Rovereto, we buried the remains of an Italian soldier of the First World War. Undersecretary Domenico Rossi and the President of the Autonomous Province of Trento, Ugo Rossi - as he did the day after the consul general of Austria - stressed the importance of overcoming nationalisms in order to give more and more space to the European flag, which is first of all the flag of peace; that flag that personalities of the calibre of Helmut Kohl have been able to fill with meaning and value, before the dismantling of borders and the common monetary policy to the German national interest and the mark. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is with these positive images and with the wishes that I have expressed that the Group for the Autonomies reiterates its support for the Brussels Summit. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, also today in this House, confirm an economic policy line based on wisdom and responsibility and renew the commitment that Italy is making in Europe for higher growth in terms not only of quantity but also of quality. With qualitative growth we mean growth based on job security, investment and productivity, but above all with a strong focus on social inclusion. The most used formula is, for this reason, that of growth and cohesion, the latter understood as overcoming the fractures and social distances that still remain in Europe and that, in Italy, are still particularly pervicacic. Social union - which is quite rightly repeated - must be accompanied by economic, monetary, fiscal and financial union. The creation of the Stability Pact requires a structural revision and adjustment of the Stability Pact and its rules: a long-standing objective supported by Italy, together with the great operation of overcoming austerity policies for measures for growth and employment; an over-doing to be carried out not in the interests of Italy but of the whole Union. We could say grow horizontally, making the audience wider for those who participate and suffer from the recovery. We can say that the European economic framework shows a better trend than the forecasts, as recently certified by the President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi. The peak of the economic crisis is behind us, as GDP figures show, and we are witnessing, this year, a performance of Europe even better than the United States or the United Kingdom. Positive results are therefore being gathered, the result of important measures implemented in the Union in the field of taxation and monetary policy. Italy has pegged this recovery, as confirmed by the International Monetary Fund, which places Italian GDP at more than 1.3% this year, exceeding the forecasts of more 1.1% projected by the government itself. The confidence indicators have been growing for months, but in both cases the margin of fragility of this growth is still quite strong. And that is what we must work on, that is, to give structure and stability to recovery. Europe is growing but, as mentioned earlier, the issue of the structurality of growth and social cohesion remains open. Italy grows but not enough compared to other Community countries. The level of Italian GDP - it has evidenced the ISTAT - has grown of the 1.9 percent in the first three months of 2017 (taking as reference the first trimester of 2015), but in the same period in the euro area is increased of the 3,5 percent. This is why our battle in Europe does not have an asphyctic local and national perimeter, but takes on the contours and borders of the Community, it concerns and questions Europe in its entirety, the structural and stable growth of all the countries that are part of it. You yourself, Mr President, recently pointed out that the request for correction of the matrix necessary for the calculation of the debt-to-GDP ratio, for example, was the result of the commitment made by our country together with other countries of the Union; therefore, far from a solitary battle that merely expresses national interests. Coming out of the crisis definitively - we said - is our goal, appreciating the signs of the recovery that, although they do not generate complete satisfaction, nevertheless animate the hope of having taken the right path. I remember only the data recently highlighted by Confesercenti during his last assembly: in ten years 47 billion consumptions have been lost and the Italian business fabric has been decimated, and I am referring above all to those small and medium-sized enterprises that represent the economic backbone of our country: since 2007 600,000 units have been lost. These are important data because without investment for the competitiveness of enterprises there is no growth and well-being, no productivity and above all no job creation. Here lies the vulnus which also explains our lower growth compared to other European countries - of which we spoke before - and which leads to a single solution, that of an investment policy, both public and private, taking into account - I repeat - that in our country the predominant enterprise is the family, widespread, that more than all other types clearly pays an exposure to the themes of investment, innovation, research, productivity and internationalization. On this front, however, progress has also been made in Italy in recent years. 11:16 a.m. (Follow FABBRI). I am thinking of the many reforms that have been implemented: the labour market, the cutting of corporate taxation such as IRAP, IRES, IMU on bolted and super-depreciation, the Industry 4.0 Plan, the energy efficiency and restructuring bonuses that you mentioned the importance of, Mr President, just on Monday when visiting Pesaro, my city. I am thinking of our commitment to the formulation of the so-called Junker Plan and the current commitment to its revision and enlargement, not forgetting also concrete actions that guarantee a strong and competitive industrial base, fully implementing the European Commission's already set target of bringing back the share of European GDP produced by manufacturing industry to at least 20% by 2020. They are positive steps forward that now need measures capable of producing the final step to place the crisis behind us, not forgetting our indispensable and necessary commitment to public debt that still has a heavy impact on our growth margins. In this sense, reducing the tax burden on companies is a goal to be achieved soon, because it ensures industrial competitiveness and promotes job creation. We cannot therefore deny that it would be desirable to reduce the tax burden on everyone, but I would add that we cannot ignore that on companies which - as I said - generate employment and favour those conditions which are fundamental to social cohesion, which in turn are based on job security. This is the virtuous mechanism to be fostered. At European level, therefore, we continue to insist on a framework of lighter fiscal policies that breathe breath into investment, which serve as oxygen to them, bearing in mind that the ECB's umbrella on the monetary front (in particular its second tranche) will gradually decline and Europe will have to prepare itself for possible repercussions by giving a response. Starting with the conclusions, Mr President, an equally central issue is the challenge of broadband: for Italy, as well as for Europe, the challenge of digitalisation is essential. The Digital Single Market Strategy needs to be implemented to improve access to digital goods and services across Europe for consumers and businesses and to maximise the growth potential of the digital economy. As you said, Mr President, the last few months have been very delicate for Europe - as you said a year ago - because the British referendum because Brexit could trigger a distorting system, feeding those populist forces that undermine the credibility of the institutions, spreading the false perception among the citizens that Europe is the enemy, a Europe reduced to technocracy and told exclusively as a power of bureaucratic blackmail. It is a falsehood, because political truth is exactly the opposite: outside it there is no economic future for our countries. Certainly it does not escape - and our country is engaged on this front, as I recalled at the beginning of my speech - the need for a change so that the Union becomes social and political, completing a process of unification resulting from a long and virtuous journey, of which we recently celebrated sixty years in March, because - as you said, Mr President - it did not ring a bell dead, but there was a very robust alarm clock. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u24	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, ladies and gentlemen, the vote that could have put a crisis in the united Europe, that is to say the French one, has fortunately been exceeded beyond any forecast. The populist forces have in fact been reduced to an influential minority, and this thanks to Macron who challenged the populists and the old political forces precisely in the name of Europe, without reluctance. This confirms what Senator Ichino wrote about "Il Foglio" some time ago, namely that today the real discrimination between political forces is between an open and pro-European vision of society - from a high - and a closed and nationalist perspective, on the other hand. And I believe that if Angela Merkel confirms her success - in any case, Germany has no major problems - France and Germany will be able to give a new impetus to European unity, with policies that look to growth without neglecting the need to secure public finances. And Italy can and must be in the game, but it will have to prove that it is able to continue the path of reforms, as you, President Gentiloni Silveri, are doing, despite the rejection of constitutional reform that - let us not forget - could have assured Italy, as well as France, a more stable and strong political system. Let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no day when I am unable to make such a big mistake that Italy has committed in rejecting the reform. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] However, we must look ahead and take advantage of the months we have left to carry out other necessary reforms, such as the adoption of the Competition Act and the Stability Act, with strong measures in favour of businesses and youth employment, starting with the cut-off of the tax wedge, which you also announced. However, President Gentiloni Silveri remains the important issue of immigration that weighs too much on our shoulders and is exploited every day by an opposition that forgets to have ruled for decades. On this level, Europe cannot continue to turn on the other side but must assume its responsibilities. Italy can't do it alone. As we have said so many times, there is a risk of providing too much argument to the populist and right-wing forces, who speculate without restraint on a delicate issue like this. Just think of the ius soli, a law just, balanced but instrumentalized indecently. As Emma Bonino has said, in no country does political exploitation unfold without limits as in ours. From this point of view, the new Europe, even with Macron, can help us with style and solutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u27	Mr President, I should like to start with the following small comment. As this is one of the two Houses of Parliament, it is not very nice for the President of the Council to come here and sell us some free EU propaganda. I also want to explain why I think there was a lot of fried air here. Then I have to tell you something else. By making some kind of joke, I would agree 99% with what you said: if your speech were written, I would agree with the whole white part of the sheet except all the strokes of ink. I got some notes. She told us about a year of Brexit. On 23 June last year a referendum was held whereby the people of the United Kingdom decided to leave the European Union (and not the monetary one, of course, that was not there). I would like to remind you that a year ago, and even earlier, there were no conciliatory tones, but a real terrorism and bullying by the European Commission (a body known as democratically elected), which literally terrified the British people. It was said that, if they had left the Union, it would have been a disaster; they would not have been able to enter the common market (when the WTO rules prohibit making this claim); there would have been a devaluation of the pound; the British stock market would have gone down and the Gilt securities would no longer be placed on the market. You had one right, even by mistake: not one. Not even guessing one can make them all wrong. This means that, intentionally, propaganda is being done. Speaking of propaganda and why every time you have to attack a suffix that indicates fanaticism - Europeanist means that you look like a fanatic, and it's like saying suprematist or sovereignist - every time you create this type of category you are making propaganda. Therefore, in terms of propaganda, the European Commission and the European Parliament in 2013 approved a document, available on the network, where it is written that two million are allocated (and have been allocated) to monitor all social networks aimed at identifying anti-European and Eurosceptic trolls and blocking all these types of discussion, enlisting in turn patrols of trolls to do this. In 2016, the European Parliament adopted another resolution saying that this type of control, monitoring and repression of anti-EU propaganda by third parties should be continued. In other words, there is no fair debate on the European Union, propaganda and the fight against opposing propaganda. All very democratic, of course. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to add another consideration, always with regard to the economic data that are being stored everywhere. In scientific literature there are hundreds and hundreds of publications in the most important economic magazines in the world that have dismantled, from start to finish, all the dogmas and propaganda about the euro and the European Union. Let me give you a good example to clarify: you have praised monetary integration and, indeed, you have said that we must continue in this direction, that is, towards monetary union. He added that the European Union and the single currency have made Europe - or rather the European Union, not Europe, which is another thing - a superpower. For me the word "superpower" evokes the concept of supremacy, of supremacy over someone else, and therefore of competition between bigger and bigger individuals. And who are our competitors? You didn't say that, but all the other pro-EU propagandists who talk about competitors, such as China on the one hand and the United States and the NAFTA block on the other. Well, since the United States wouldn't be happy with the introduction of the euro, I want to remind you of a scientific publication that appeared in 2006 in the magazine "American Economic Review" which collects the opinions of the greatest American economists in a small period of time, from 1989 to 2002. The vast majority of these economists said that the euro was a good thing, not a bad thing. The euro, it is true, officially appeared in 1997 (even if we saw it in our pockets only in 2002), because that year we were permanently anchored, by obligation, to equality with what was called ECU 1936,27 lire. So we had a long time in which this obligation existed and to the United States, our rivals who opposed the euro, this was fine: it seems to me to contradict what was said earlier, and I am talking about a scientific publication, I am not saying it, that I am Mr. Nobody, who came from nothing. Let's move on. You talk to me about reluctant Europeanism. This is a judgment of merit and morals. There is no reluctant Europeanism, there are free people with free thinking, who may not be aligned with the pro-EU thinking that does not mean pro-Europe. Europe, in fact, is a physical unity and all of us, born on this continent, are just Europeans. It is not a concept related to nationality. If anything, we must distinguish the euro, monetary union, the European Union and Europe. Let's not mess this up. I tell you this because when you do this you do not do a service to the citizens, because it is propaganda. But let's move on, because it's right to move on. You said that the European Union was thought to be the problem. Then he added that now everything has changed. I ask you, what has changed? The cards that were on the table a year ago are the same as there are now: nothing has changed at all. Here, too, I would like to mention an economist, Feldstein, who has only 483 scientific publications: he said that instead of promoting intra-EU harmony and global peace, it is much more likely that the transition to monetary union and subsequent political integration will lead to an increase in intra-EU conflicts. Well, it happened: intra-EU conflicts are constant, they are of course conflicts related to internal trade and the single currency which, in the end, as expected, displeased everyone. Moreover, let us remember that, before the euro came into force, a study commissioned by the European Commission, which obviously chose part-time experts, stated that monetary union could bring benefits. Too bad nobody ever tells the second part of the story: in the following years, those who had contributed to that publication - and it is all contained in scientific acts - either apologized for writing those false things or were ashamed and publicly declared it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we want to have a debate on the state of the EU and monetary union, let us at least make it fair: let us give everyone a chance to know things. I don't expect anyone to read their scientific writings and publications - there are a lot of magazines because they publish so much in the world - but these things are said; there are so many sites that collect these publications and also allow you to make a critical analysis. Then, if you prefer to be critical, then read the publication, go look at the bibliography and you realize exactly what it is. President Gentiloni Silveri, you spoke about Kohl and his famous project for the European Union: I believe that! Germany wanted the European Union project to do so, because Germany has benefited the most from it, and that too is in fact in fact or in the graphs. I believe in the graphs because they don't lie and from the graphs we find that Germany before the euro was the great sick person in Europe. This was in the headlines of all the newspapers: it didn't grow. Now that we start calling it the locomotive again, I say no: it is the ballast, because the whole train of the other nations is pulling Germany. We Italians self-depreme ourselves because we say that we are corrupt and everything else, yet the Dieselgate scandal did so by the German saints, not the corrupt Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, we who keep throwing manure at us, we were the ones who bought German goods in debt because, unable to produce new debt, we had to act on wages by deflation and we had to create debt. So even in this case, when it comes to saying that it is important that the foreign investor invests in Italy, it is another phrase made. What do you mean the foreign investor invests? He's lending you his money. When abroad, the sovereign fund of Qatar, Oman or China or some Chinese investment bank puts money here, it's lending them to us and wants them back. MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). No, what do you say? MARTELLI (M5S). Buy a share of something, have a [[payout... (Senator Marino Luigi's comments.]] President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Luigi Marino, please. MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). But he always interrupts, for once I do it! MARTELLI (M5S). If I buy a share of an Italian company... [[Comments of Senator Marino Luigi.]] Study instead of bullshit! [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u28	Senator Martelli, please! Senator Luigi Marino, return to your place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u29	AIROLA (M5S). While Monti was speaking, you were all listening to him. This is unheard of! MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). Buffoon! Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Don't worry! [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u30	Senator Martelli, please resume your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u31	MARTELLI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, I apologize for being interrupted. We were saying: when a Chinese company buys a piece of an Italian company, it wants a payout in terms of dividend payment, so, in fact, there is a drain of capital from us to China. That's the truth. It's so obvious that anyone should understand that. With regard to the conquest of geopolitical space by the European Union, I would like to make a comment on this matter. The European Union has not acquired a geopolitical space. Indeed, it has proved incapable of resolving internal issues such as, for example, the concept of migration, which you, President Gentiloni Silveri, fortunately, touched. There are two examples that make us understand how the European Union is nothing more than a financial club and the euro is not a currency, but an instrument of control and I am going to argue. With Greece, which has the euro, what has been done? He blackmailed himself, like, since you're no longer able to finance yourself on the markets, I'm gonna loan you at the rate that I decide you're gonna give me back by making privatizations. Privatizations that then, casually, were almost all acquired by German companies, such as the Fraport that went to buy the airports. On the issue of migrants, Hungary, which has made a wall, has shouted at the scandal, but the European Union has done nothing. Why? Because he blackmailed Greece and said, "I don't give you a euro anymore: you're ruined," but Hungary doesn't have the euro, so in the end the EU's contractual coercion power is reduced to: "If you have the euro, they'll be enough for you with the euro and I'll take away your leverage; if you don't have it, I'll shut up and let it go." This is the European Union that is defending itself. If you really want a Europe, then instead of continuing to rely on the doctor who made you sick hoping that it will heal you, let that doctor quit and try to start over. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u33	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have appreciated the calmness and closeness to the subject of your communications, which we have not always been used to in recent years. We have appreciated in the content some aspects of his communications, in particular the emphasis on the need to keep a pragmatic attitude on Brexit, neither hard nor soft Brexit, but a Brexit that is sensible and, in particular, defends the interests of Italians in the United Kingdom and, in general, the relations between companies and Italian people with the United Kingdom. Its attitude was much more welcome than some high-ranking members of the European Union, who called for revenge on the United Kingdom. Revenge is not rational in general, but the more it is in politics and all the more so in international politics, for a legitimate act that the citizens of the United Kingdom have decided by majority to take. We not only appreciate, but we support and support the Government's action to bring to Italy some bodies that, precisely because of Brexit, are leaving the United Kingdom, in particular the European Banking Authority and the European Medicines Agency, which we also hope will arrive in Milan. Not only do we give our full support in Parliament to this proposal, but the Lombardy Region, where Forza Italia is an important part of the Junta, is actively, effectively and concretely supporting this attempt that we think deserves to be successful, bringing these important European agencies to Milan. We also hope to have some influence on them. I remember what the European Banking Authority did in 2011, when it changed the parameters from one day to the next, without apparently consulting anyone, greatly disadvantageizing Italian banks and the Italian State, without there being any reason in the real economy. We support anyone who sits among the government's benches when it does the interests of our country. We also enjoyed the memory of Helmut Kohl. After the intervention of the President-in-Office of the Council, there were others who mentioned the figure of Helmut Kohl, an extremely important figure: without him, Europe would have been different and the history of Europe would have been different. I am pleased that today, thirty years after Kohl's political career summit and a few days after his departure, there is this broad appreciation of his figure. I remember that in his time, when he was a candidate (sometimes winning and sometimes not) of the German center-right, that is, of the German Christian Democrats, opposed to the left of the Social Democrats, almost all the Italian media and many Italian politicians snubbed Helmut Kohl, who also had great university degrees and various degrees, as an intellectually inferior person compared to the bright lights that were on the left. This is a vice that we discount for Italy as for Germany: they are always geniuses those who are on the left. But Helmut Kohl, even thirty years later, I see applause also on the left. Unfortunately, many of those who have applauded it and who have mentioned it in the speeches this afternoon will vote and defend with their vote a measure that provides, for those who were even just suspected or suspected of some of the facts that later involved Kohl in the financing of his party, that only such clue for the confiscation of property, for it to be put in prison or even at the confinement even before the conviction and finally for it to be deprived of the heritage and livelihood in old age: this morning applaud Kohl and this afternoon you will vote so that whoever has done what Kohl has done ends in years of imprisonment, he will be kidnapped the heritage and taken away the livelihood for old age. Having said that, let us remember that when Kohl played an active role, as long as he did so, in determining the character of the European Union, he worked so that it was really inspired by the criteria of solidarity and cohesion, whereas precisely in the years when Kohl was forced to leave politics (he had initially been forced to leave the Chancellery) a Europe passed in which rigid economic parameters prevailed. But only a few parameters are rigid, because one aspect that you, Mr President, have not talked about are those famous parameters that do not fall within what we talk about every day, deficit and debt, but they are what we should talk about every day and of which no one talks about: I am referring to the trade surplus of Germany, which is against the Treaties as much as it would be against the Treaties if Italy had a deficit of more than 3%. But there is always talk of the deficit, whereas Germany's trade surplus is not mentioned and it is significant that this issue has been absent, even in its communications, Mr President. Another point you have touched on is the question of the Paris Agreement and its non-negotiability, with the idea of withdrawing from the same agreements as the United States and President Trump. I appreciate that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have had a more mature attitude with President Trump than with others. Not having you campaigned in the United States, neither when you were Minister of Foreign Affairs, nor as President of the Council, unlike other members of our Government, had the advantage of being able to deal as a Head of Government should with a foreign government, whether or not you meet our tastes, in this case with President Trump. With regard to the Paris agreements, I believe that the exit of the United States should be the starting point if not to renegotiate them, at least to ask a few questions: why in the Paris agreements Germany, which has 36% more inhabitants than Italy, can have emissions of 98 percent higher than those of Italy? Did anyone ever ask that? Has it ever been asked at European level why? Is that okay with us? In fact, it must be borne in mind that Germany manages to keep "low" (i.e. 50% higher than the Italian ones) emissions thanks to the fact that it still uses nuclear energy massively, albeit with a vague commitment, for a rather distant future, to renounce it. Italy does not use nuclear energy that is virtually zero-emission yet it is subject to much more stringent emission parameters. Why? Wasn't it the opportunity, the exit of a country as important as the United States of America, to take a look at these mechanisms? Is it logical that in the Paris agreements, China and India, which already have very high emissions today (China twice as much as the United States, i.e. 26 times Italy), can continue to grow until 2030? The act of faith in favor of the Paris Agreement is beautiful, but in addition to professing acts of faith, in addition to being applauded in international fora, those representing Italy should defend the interests of Italy, just as the celebrated Helmut Kohl defended the interests of Germany in a Europe of solidarity, that of his time. Another point that I reserve the right to touch, also in the following explanation of vote, is immigration: the President of the Council called for a common European migration policy. But how do you ask for a common migration policy when Italy wants to make the first of the class on a number of points? A few weeks ago the law on minors - or rather on self-declared minors - was passed, unaccompanied foreigners, and on that occasion representatives of the majority and the Democratic Party boasted that it is a state-of-the-art law in Europe, when it is a much, but much more laxist law than any other European country. And then we say that we need a common European policy. Let's go get - the only country in the world and in history - the people who want to come from Africa to Italy near the African coast, but then we demand that Hungarians take their share. This isn't so good. Not to mention, then, the law called ius soli, which is actually much wider than ius soli, also this almost unique case in Europe (in Spain there is something we are approaching): we want to do the first of the class, saying "Come," the better it is, except then ask for 800 people to be taken by Hungary and a common European policy. We need more consistency. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u35	Mr President, government gentlemen, fellow senators, this European Council is taking place at a very particular time, when the effects of the new American Presidency are being taken into account, the consequences of Brexit, the leadership shift in Turkey, the French elections, the diplomatic war going on in the Gulf between the Sunnis, but also in relation to the Shiite component. Signs that call us, as Italians and Europeans, to live up to the challenges to which we must respond with new instruments, anchoring ourselves to ancient certainties. The ancient certainty is that there is no future outside the European Union and against the European Union; that Europe is changing from this Europe; that the aggressiveness of ancient allies (I think of the United States and the risks of their increasingly evident protectionist and nationalistic retreat) and new competitors calls for a new phase in the process of European integration, which also passes through the agenda of the next European Council. Of course, we cannot expect revolutionary decisions, but the changed climate towards the inevitability of the sunset of the European Union calls on the European governments and the institutions of the Union to make a stronger commitment to implement Malta's declaration on migration, to arrive at common legislation on the right of asylum, to give life to a plan for Africa that healthys the ancient wounds of our colonialism and contains the expansionist vocation especially of India and China on the African continent, encouraging the growth of Africa. Europe's growth also depends increasingly on the strengthening of the political integration process, which, since the next European Council, means completing monetary and banking union, starting a real fiscal unit, strengthening the EU budget, because there is no political strengthening of the European Union without more resources to accompany growth with adequate investments, for a shared and shared European public debt. In this context, one percent of European GDP in favour of the EU budget does not allow us to implement the policies we also want. This resumption of political initiative requires not only the states and peoples of the old continent, but also the whole world. There must be a strong political Europe to counter the regurgitation of the cold war we are witnessing, in which the digital war goes hand in hand with the traditional war, to seek new hegemony and in which the unpredictable and subtle terrorist strategy of the most extremist Islamic groups is sowing death in Europe and the West. In this context, strengthening the European Union's defence and external relations system requires more determined decisions, faster than it has so far been. We also expect clear guidelines from this European Council on the objectives to be set for a new European defence system, to resume the dream broken in 1954 with the end of the CED and to lay the foundations for a turning point towards that political union which remains the final goal of the European integration process. Only from a turning point in the definition of objectives, in the conviction in pursuing them, especially from Germany, France, and Italy that with their 200 million inhabitants are the heart of Europe today, after Brexit, we can hope to have the strength to put in place those policies of growth, without which Europe not only risks being no longer the first economy in the world, but also risks losing that irreplaceable primacy that it has in combining levels of well-being, political freedom and social protection. There is still room to strengthen the internal market, to overcome the non-tariff barriers between our economic systems and to eliminate small and large dumping, which alter competition within the European Union and prevent or alter proper market access. However, it is essential for the European Union to use its political and economic weight to open up other markets, to put at the centre its commitment to multilateralism, also using free trade agreements to promote peace and development, demonstrating that Trump doctrine is negative for the United States and the world, and that protectionism, for Europe and especially for a poor country of raw materials, is the biggest obstacle to growth and therefore to employment and the reduction of public debt, which the financial crisis has left us as a legacy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the electoral results of very important European countries have given us a clear indication of the way forward. Let's hope we're not the exception that confirms the rule, but the road is clear. The process of integration must not stop and the European Union must be completed, populism defeats itself by telling the truth to the citizens and exalting their sense of responsibility. The history of Europe is a story of stop and go. It was thus after the defeat of the European Defence Community (EDC), with the Franco-English opposition and the rejection of the draft Constitution. After that, however, the Treaties of Rome, the Single Act and the Treaty of Lisbon came. It is time to think about tomorrow, not forgetting the day-to-day emergencies, and tomorrow we need to build it today, with the problem of how to further strengthen the democratic dimension of the European Union. We must arrive at the 2019 elections with a strong lead on how to better balance the power of initiative, which is the Commission's right, the Community body par excellence, but which is in fact in the hands of the Council today, that is to say of national governments, those very governments which have often found a easier way out of problems, pointing Europe as the cause of the problems themselves, rather than as their solution. In recent years, Europe has run the risk of being overwhelmed by the irreconclusive asphyxiation of the intergovernmental dimension. If there is something that from the lesson of the founding Fathers we must really recover is the awareness that only the primacy of the community dimension can make us advance in the process of integration, even at different speeds, even in a shared framework of values and objectives. The Community dimension can only be strengthened if we extend Parliament's powers of initiative and give the Commission a real governing role. Strengthening the democratic dimension also means involving public opinion more and more in the narrative of this time, including through consultations on specific problems, for example during the forthcoming European elections, as has already been the case in the past. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as is hoped in the motion for a resolution to be tabled by the majority, we trust that this European Council will pursue with determination the completion of monetary and banking union, the new asylum rules in a European sense, defend the Paris climate agreement and open a wide-ranging confrontation with the United States on this issue and that of world trade, think of migration from Africa not as a biblical relevance, but as a map of torrasole of the need for a new distribution logic of the world's resources and riches. Being at the head of this epochal process is the duty of a great country, which knows how to look beyond its own pettiness. We are sure that you, the Government's gentlemen, and you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are more than aware of this and we trust that the very positive approach we have taken over these months on European and international issues will not only centralise Italy's role, but will strengthen that faint hope, which we have seen reborn in Europe and which makes us believe that the time of the sunset of the European Union and of your States is not yet on the agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, No 2, Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra, No 3, Senator Barani and other senators, No 4, Senator De Petris and other senators, No 5, Senator Martelli and other senators, and No 6, Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u37	Mr President, I shall confine myself to expressing my opinion on the resolutions. I object to the resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. I am in favour of resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. The opinion on Resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Barani and other senators, is in favour if reworded. The rewording consists in eliminating the period beginning with the words "Of particular importance" therefore the purpose appears, and in rewording the second commitment, replacing the period beginning with the words "overtaking" in the meantime and ending with the words "waiting" with the word "promoting" in the meantime. If these changes are accepted, the opinion is in favour. Also on Resolution No. 4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, the opinion is favourable if the reformulation of the Government is accepted. The changes we propose are the following: remove, on the first page, the third and fourth points; modify the last relief of the first page with the elimination of the words: "in the name of German merchantism" and the replacement of the words: "it has proved more and more unsustainable: it has been achieved through a heading with the words: "it remains an open yard"; "it is necessary to avoid a permanent construction site"; "in the third page, modify the first commitment by removing the words: "it is opposed to rejections towards countries of origin and transit"; "it is always on the third page, in the fourth commitment, to replace the period beginning with the words: "it is therefore to be replaced by the words: "it is to propose" by the word "proposing" by the word "it" by the eighth commitment; "it is to replace the words: "in particular from the dismantling of the lager fields where migrants are confined" by "it" and "it is to replace" by: "it is to replace by: "it is to replace" by "it" by "it is to replace" by "it" by: "it is to replace" by: "it is to the "it is to replace" by: "it is to replace" by "it" is to replace" is to the words" by: "it is to the following: "it is to the words" is to the first and "it is to replace" is to the first and the first and "it is to replace by "it is to replace by means" by means" by means of "to be replaced by means" by means" by means" by means of "in the following: "it is to the following: "in the following: With regard to the commitment to the G20 in Hamburg, we ask to replace the words: "-1.5° C" by the words: "------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ If you accept these rewordings, the opinion is in favour. With regard to Resolution No. 5, I do not agree with anything Senator Martelli said, but I share much of what is indicated in the resolution, because there are so many actions that the Government has in progress, so if the proposers accept the rewordings of the Government, the opinion is in favour. We ask that on page four, the last period ends with the words "conflict resolution," eliminating everything that follows, until the beginning of page five. With regard to the mechanism, since these are actions on which the Government is working, I propose rewordings that make the commitments proposed by the proposers more current. The first commitment should be reworded as follows: It will continue its efforts to overcome the current Dublin system and, in particular, to revise the principle of the "first port country" and to consider also the possibility of allowing migrants to apply for asylum in the Member State where relatives and family members may already be present.In the second commitment, we would like to replace the word: "support" with the words: "rebite the need"; in the third commitment, we would like to replace the words: "to support the introduction of "first port" by the words: "reaffirm the proposal already put forward by the Government to introduce". To the fourth commitment we ask to replace the words: "to discuss the approach" with the following: "to continue in the commitment to promote new policies" and to eliminate the words: "to promote income support actions such as the establishment of citizenship income," "to promote income support." To the fifth commitment, I propose to replace the words: "to ask for more clarity in the appropriate European fora" by the following: "to deepen the analysis" and replace the words: "to make its governance, its financing and its objectives more transparent," by the words: "to ensure the full transparency of its governance, its financing and its objectives," "to ensure the full transparency of its governance, its objectives." I call for the removal of the sixth commitment to peacekeeping at United Nations level and, to the next commitment, to replace the word: "support" with the words: "reiterate the need to launch" and replace the words: "a cost cut to the defence budget" with the words: "savings" and a more efficient defence expenditure" and "words": "I call for the removal of the sixth commitment to peacekeeping at United Nations level and, to the next commitment, to replace the word: "Support" with the words: "Support" and "Support" with the words: "Support" and "Support" with the words: "Support" and "Support" with the words: "Support" with the words: "Support" and "Support" with the more efficient defence spending" and the words: "Support." By guaranteeing a recovery of funds to be reinvested, hopefully, with the words: "by continuing at the same time with new initiatives". As for the penultimate commitment, I propose to replace the period by the words: "to guarantee" to the words: "the Brexit" with the following words: "to reaffirm, in the negotiations for Brexit, the priority to guarantee". Finally, I would ask you to remove the last commitment. If these rewordings are accepted, the Government's opinion on motion for a resolution No 5 is in favour. I now come to motion for a resolution No 6, on which the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewordings are accepted. In point (d), I propose to replace the words'rejecting any activity' by not incorporating the following 'which it has not transposed'. With reference to the last consideration on the migration phenomenon, I propose that there be a rapid replacement with the words "continue" in the "Migratory" because the agreements are being implemented. Moreover, later on, in the second point with regard to employment, I propose replacing the words 'economic programmes' have not, until now, in particular, been effective with the following 'economic programmes' have not always been effective. With regard to external relations, where reference is made to the dismantling of a Syrian military aircraft from an American raid, the words "has again led to the closure of communication channels" should be replaced with the others: "it has again complicated communication." With regard to commitments, with reference to the first, I propose to replace the word "by acting" with the following "by continuing to work." To the third commitment, I propose to use the following formula: "proceeding in the dialogue with Malta for a reasonable demarcation of the SAR area, eliminating the overlap with the Italian area of competence and to intervene with rescue activities (...)" As for the next commitment, I propose to use the following formula: "Continuing the Government's action to facilitate the full recruitment by the countries (...)". At the next point, I would like to replace the words "supporting" with the following "rewarding" the need for greater support for the "details." To the next commitment, I ask that the first part be reworded in the following way by rethinking the request for additional resources at European level for the fund launched in Valletta, aimed at keeping the second part unchanged. I would also ask for the following commitment to replace the words "predicting the possibility" to "from the European Union" by the following "reaffirming the need to condition the allocation of European funds, in particular cohesion policy, to full compliance by all Member States with the obligations relating to immigration and asylum." This is a proposal that the Government has already made in April and which I reiterated yesterday on behalf of Italy in the General Affairs Council. As for the commitment that begins with the words "preventing the realization" I ask to reformulate it as follows: "considering the possibility to realize, in Libyan, Tunisian and Maltese territory, place of safety able to welcome migrants rescued at sea in correspondence with the areas SAR of competence, in compliance with the spirit and letter of the Hamburg Convention and in full respect of the European and international obligations to protect human rights;" As for the penultimate commitment, I propose to add, after the words: "the strategicity of ensuring" the following: "in the moment when all the necessary conditions are fulfilled", while maintaining the following.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u38	Senator Barani, do you accept the proposed reformulation of Resolution 3? Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have no response to the proposed reformulation of Resolution No 4. Senator Martelli, do you accept the proposed reformulation of Resolution 5? MARTELLI (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, do you accept the proposed reformulation of Resolution 6? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u41	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I agree with what has been said in the main points of this morning's debate. However, I would like to make a few points on some aspects, first of all on Brexit. Almost a month after President Gentiloni's last speech in this Chamber, in which I asked for clarity on the costs of Brexit, I come back, after the controversial remarks on this very issue, to ask her to ensure that President Gentiloni himself spokesperson for this need, which belongs to all 27 Member States. It is necessary to take stock of how much Brexit will cost our economy, the economy of the Union, as we need to know what answers we give to our compatriots who live and work in the United Kingdom and who, to date, still do not have clear what the discipline applied to their inalienable right of free movement will be. The negotiations, which started a few days ago, must not be an opportunity to express resentment, but an opportunity for honest discussion on the subject, bearing in mind that the maintenance of our economic system derives directly from the approach that the European Union will decide to take with the United Kingdom. Migration is another issue on the agenda of the European Council and an evaluation will be needed to implement the measures to be taken to curb migratory flows along the Central Mediterranean route. Faced with the latest data provided by the International Organization of Migration, it appears to date that in the Mediterranean in 2017 there were 2,000 deaths, more than 81,000 arrivals of migrants, of which 85 percent directed to Italy. It seems clear to me that Italy must commit itself to radically changing the way we deal with the emergency. The Union's will is not to review the Dublin agreements, re-determinating the number of asylum seekers for each individual country, but Italy cannot alone bear the weight of 85% of this emergency. I would add that more than analyzing the policies of intervention in the central Mediterranean, the real great issue to be addressed is that of the cooperation and development of the African continent. Only a strong economic and social partnership between Europe and Africa, led by Italy, and not the alms that for too long we have been accustomed to giving, can ensure the true control of the migration phenomenon. It is useless to continue to evaluate interventions limited to a daily refishing by our Forces of Order and our Coast Guard, but to which we are grateful for their commitment, which allows us to deal with the issue head-on in European fora. Italy must obtain, through our President-in-Office of the Council, a real commitment from Europe in the countries from which the boats depart, in order to ensure dignified living conditions for the people who, even because of certain foreign policies, flee from their home, from their values, from their affections and try to reach a country that is unable to welcome, in six months, almost 57,000 migrants. This, however, is not a right-wing or anti-European policy direction, but the same President of the European Socialist Party (now the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament), the European House of the PD, Gianni Pittella has expressly asked the European Parliament to make this a serious reason for negotiating the countries of the Union. We cannot allow people to die off our coasts, as we cannot support a phenomenon that is absolutely not only Italian, but of which Italy bears the greatest weight. We all look with concern at the worrying terrorist events that are disrupting the continent. This is not the place to debate demagogically on the causes of this escalation, but Italy will have the opportunity to be a guide in the prevention of terrorism and attacks: the great experience that our country has been able, despite it, to make in the dark years of our republican history in the matter of prevention and security of citizens and institutions must be made available to our allies. As with many other sectors, much more Europe is needed. We stood still at Interpol, letting the national security services not talk to each other. If we do not understand that greater integration means more results, the outcome will always be disappointing. Finally, during the 2017 European Semester, it is necessary to continue to carry out a fight that allows Italy to implement true policies aimed at employment, growth and competitiveness, first and foremost with regard to our excellence, our exports, the Made in Italy brand that Europe's economy fears. It is true that our country has accumulated a great delay, for example in the digitisation of businesses. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I shall conclude, Mr President. Confindustria digitale calculates a loss from 2000 to 2015 of 200 billion euros because of this. That is why the Union must allow Italy, in times and in ways that do not degrade our economy, to adapt to standards. We are doing this with the Calenda plan, but we need more support from Europe because further support for Italy is further support for the whole Union. Finally, it is necessary... president. Get it done. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I leave the text... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Fucksia's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u42	The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the remainder of its inclusion to be annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u45	I would ask everyone to limit the timing of their speeches, otherwise we will not be able to close the sitting with the vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we would like to speak of an absolute void, which is also a little bit of what President Gentiloni Silveri reminded us in a very laconic way earlier: alone, without any minister around and even with the benches of the deserted majority. This gives some idea of the image that the Gentiloni government also projects abroad, as well as within the country: a boat, a shell of walnut put in the water waiting for it to crash into the rocks, with also from the majority someone who cheers for the rocks to get closer as fast as possible. We don't play the worst of all. On the other hand, we would like, at least in this last legislative escape (since you have decided to drag it again for a few months), the Government to play its part, defending the interests of Italian citizens and especially those who are in the worst position today at European level; I am thinking of earthquake victims. I quote the earthquake victims, Mr President, because before, when President Gentiloni came to this House, he gave us a great overview of what he is doing in favour of our country, especially at European level. I remember, Mr President, but the other Members will not escape either, when this autumn the then President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, used - and I use this very word because this was done - the tragedy of the earthquake to ask the European Union for flexibility on the state accounts: we had the earthquake, so you have to give us flexibility, otherwise the country cannot start again. That flexibility has arrived, the funds have been made available, but no one will escape what is happening, just take a daily newspaper and read it: earthquake, chaos and delays. Canton and anti-mafia investigate sub-contracts for houses and rubble. This is today's newspaper, Mr President. Paola De Micheli says "too much bureaucracy, but we will rebuild everything." I remember - and with me there was also Senator Arrigoni - when we warned the government in the Commission, because with what the reconstruction was doing it would no longer be done. Nine months have passed and today in the chronicles we have the stories of enterprises that have built the houses and that are not paid; stories of people still abandoned to their own destiny, without having the possibility to return to their own earthquake country; stories of a reconstruction that even neglects the fact that they must be at least exempted from the payment of inheritance taxes the poor unfortunates who have remained under the earthquake. This is the seriousness of the government. This is the seriousness that the Government has put in the reconstruction of the earthquake areas. But if this is the seriousness that the Government has put on such an important issue, it is not difficult to understand how credible the Government is on other issues when it is addressing Europe asking for flexibility, engaging on the economic front rather than on that of social and financial recovery. President Gentiloni Silveri, the problem is that you are not credible because it is in what you do, that is, in what you do not do, that you prove not to be credible. Just yesterday, not later than a few hours ago, the majority psychodrama was being aired in this House, with part of the majority voting against the same Government for the motions concerning the Council scandal, and part of the majority, the PD, which requested verification. How do you think you can be credible by addressing Europe and asking for more flexible rules to be used for our country? If you don't clear the field quickly from these ghosts, the problem is not that you will go deeper, but that you will take the whole country with you. Start hunting Errani and hunting Lotti and start to give a sign of discontinuity compared to a management that is only doing damage to the country. The seriousness is shown by paying the suppliers and not being the last country in Europe for the delay of the payments from the public administration. Companies in Italy are still failing today because they are waiting to be paid by the public administration. As the other countries move forward, we go back. Our economy, compared to that of another country like Spain, which went into crisis as much as we did at the beginning of the 2000s, is running away, while in that country it has now resumed its flight. What's the difference? It's in basic political choices. Yeah, because if the priority for you right now becomes the ius soli, then you understand how you are unable to handle a dramatic phenomenon like the migratory one. There are these issues on the agenda of the European Council. The first is migration once again. Every time there is a European Council, the first issue is migration. And what are the answers? Every time, nothing. Then Senator Fabbri can also continue to say that Europe has resumed vigorously and that anti-Europeanism has been defeated. Anti-Europeanism is not a seasonal phenomenon like the leaves that grow and fall. The problem is Europe which cannot solve the problems and citizens who do not have confidence in a mechanism made only of bureaucracy and great interests, not of protecting the weakest and the most fragile. Today, once again, we have had confirmation of the fact that Europe is based on finance, while we, in the first article of the Constitution, wrote that Italy is a democratic Republic founded on labour. Today you are bringing Italy to give up its founding foundations, to the recognition of work as the true source of dignity for people, instead subjecting Italy to financial constraints. And then we go to talk about fiscal compact and quantitative easing, about everything else that is very far from the everyday life of the citizens. Once again, the word security and defence is included in the European Council. But what is the government's seriousness with regard to security when, with the reorganization of careers, you have created a mess in the Forces of Order and, even worse, a bloodshed against them? What reasons do you give to our agents on the streets, whom we ask, and ask, every day to make available their competence, their professionalism and also to put their lives at risk in order to defend the citizens, when you do not even allow them to plan their family's budget because you massage them? This is the seriousness with which you then govern the country and with which you turn to Europe. Where do you think you're going? I repeat: it was only the problem of your majority going down! But the problem is that you take down the whole country with this way of thinking about politics. It is a mockery, Mr President, because what is sold in images is not in essence. Even the same friendliness that distinguishes President Gentiloni Silveri corresponds to that buffet that is given to the last of the row, to the fool of the combriccola when it is welcomed by others. This, unfortunately, is the image that comes from today when we see our country represented in Europe. We would have liked to see discussions here on the motions concerning agriculture and the rice supply chain, but for the umpteenth time they have been postponed. Once again you are hurting our country by not defending the work of those who, starting from agriculture, pay taxes, putting us sweat and effort, simply asking to be recognized and respected in their ability to work and create wealth. But you don't care. It is okay that the European Union does not put the duties and allows imports of rice from Burma by sending the entire sector to the bottom and then shutting down the companies and staying at home our workers who care, so it is important for you that some lenders come from abroad, better if also connected to Renzi and his friends of the banks, to buy the Italian companies on sale. This is not what a serious government is called. The sooner you leave, the better. On 4 December the citizens told you, dear Senator Repetti, they told the government clearly: Get out of here. And once again the paradox is that then we had a President of the Council who had publicly stated that if he had lost the referendum he would leave and today the main shareholder of the majority, Matteo Renzi, is still here to limestone and want to take out President Gentiloni Silveri to take his place. Mr President, this is not a serious government either for what it does or for these assumptions. The sooner we get rid of it, the sooner we return to the vote and the sooner we can return to the European Union to say that the interests of Italian citizens, of the citizens of our country, come before those of others. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u48	Corsini (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, I have always taken great account of the choices made by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs. Paolo Gentiloni has done so and so, all the more so, I want to reiterate today the sharing with regard to the guidelines he has set out. I would like to start with a statement from his speech: the President described Europe as "a central project of our future." I find this remark particularly inspiring, because I am convinced that Europe's identity does not just belong to its past, but is included in its future. There is a very beautiful passage from the book "Our Europe" by Edgar Morin and Mauro Ceruti, who was our fellow senator, in which the two scholars claim that Europe is no longer a caterpillar, in the sense that it has come out of its own chrysalis, but is not yet a dragonfly. I believe that this image well tells us of the challenges and appointments that await us. I was saying a great story, because Europe has its roots even in mythological tradition, in the myth of Cadmo and Harmony, and it is at the centre, it is the place of origin of the processes of globalization and westernization. We can talk about a Europe that is everywhere - the Eurasia, the Euro-America, the Eurafrica - but the risk facing Europe today is to become a sort of province of the great world that surrounds it, a province from a demographic point of view, a province with regard to the availability of energy resources and with regard to its vocation, which cannot be ignored or denied, of great power. Well, what are the premises for Europe to be able to face the complex challenges that the President, with great clarity and intellectual honesty, has presented to us? First of all, Europe has a challenge before it, the need for it to become a daily plebiscite, to paraphrase a definition that has been given of democracy in the past, namely that the European feeling of citizenship is internalized. Above all, I believe that Europe (but from this point of view, the guidelines that the President has set out to us are reassuring, even if I will allow myself to be closed) must be the continent that repeals the dimension of the refusal and that is able to propose today a new European deal. Europe is not a province, it is Europe that faces the great challenge of our time, that is, the challenge of globalisation. There is a chapter that President Gentiloni Silveri has addressed and that will be at the heart of the debate of the European Council: the Europe of inclusion, the Europe of law, the Europe that relaunches the prospects of its social market economy. It is a Europe that re-reads - this is a challenge for all of us - the great theme of globalisation, which we have certainly interpreted, in a recent past, exclusively in terms of excellence, merit and flexibility, and which today I believe poses the challenge of a Europe as a great innovative state, as a great state pursuing an investment policy, which assumes the ambition of growth, which remedys the globalised world of inequalities, fragility, difficulties that invest millions of citizens and people. When we rightly talk - and this is an objective worthy of being pursued - about economic and monetary union, it is not enough. It is necessary to define which declination is given precisely to these objectives. I believe that the Europe of growth, the Europe of work, the Europe of the redemption of the dignity of its citizens must be central. Rightly, President Gentiloni Silveri has drawn a profoundly changed international landscape and which problems one of the fundamental axes of European foreign policy: the axis of transatlantic policy, because Trump's choices, the choices of protectionism to return to the old doctrine of Monroe, question Europe and I believe that the answer is more Europe, more integration, more Europe's ability to address the possible solution of the great, epochal problems of our time. From this point of view, it seems to me that Emmanuel Macron's victory in France is a reassuring factor for us, because Macron won on the basis not of a slogan, but of a project, which is the project of more Europe, no less Europe. So too the disappointing result - disappointing to say the least with regard to its original ambitions - of Theresa May poses us, again in this case, to the challenge of Brexit, which is the challenge of maintaining financial commitments, the protection and promotion of the rights of European citizens, and therefore Italians, residing in Great Britain. It is the challenge of harmonizing European law and the law of Britain; the challenge of the single market, the borders between Ulster and Ireland. Well, the theme of Brexit today presents us with an unprecedented possibility, in the light of the failure of the intentions of hard Brexit, namely the possibility of defining a kind of friendly divorce in the maintenance of commitments made rather than in the promotion of a belligerent policy and conflict. I said: the Europe which recognizes itself by inverting the values of its tradition, which are the values of solidarity and responsibility: values which evoke then the legitimacy of the assumption of sanctioning powers compared to those who fail these references. I am thinking, for example, of the crucial issues that affect refugee or asylum seekers. We had, in 2016, 180,000 entrances: obviously not all refugees or asylum seekers, but there was an agreement on the relocation of 160,000 citizens. Some 20,000 have been relocated. Well, today we can be strong in the opinion of the European Commission's lawyer, who basically argues, by giving us reason, that the Dublin Convention, as it has been formulated, is inapplicable, because it lacks adequate legislation. It is therefore possible and necessary to renegotiate it, with a view to the establishment of a centralised system. It must also be pursued a perspective that has been conceived and elaborated precisely on the Italian side: I am referring to the migration compact, a perspective of cooperation, a perspective that puts us before the continents of hunger, misery and suffering, not with the supposed attitude of the new colonialists, but in the sign of the promotion of European civil missions. The cultural references that inspire policy choices need to be well defined. In the face of the phenomenon of terrorism, in the face of a phenomenon that creates dramatic problems for the legitimate security aspirations of European citizens, what interpretation do we give? Are we in the presence of a radicalization of Islamism or are we in the presence of a social and political radicalization that is declined in Islamic terms? To give a differentiated and coherent answer to this question means to arm ourselves or, better, to equip ourselves (I want to demilitarize completely my language) with appropriate tools. A small nail is needed here. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. Conclude Senator. Corsini (Art.1-MDP). I shall conclude with a very brief remark, which I would like to make as a problem to my colleague, Mr Gozi, who I know is competent and sensitive. When we support the need for a relationship of cooperation between the European Union and NATO (in contemporary times there is no longer a danger of invasion from the Soviet East) and when we talk about increasing and implementing the options of research and capacity and we talk about the establishment of a single fund that would be excluded from the calculation of expenditure for debt purposes, a problematic perspective opens up. I wonder whether these resources cannot be calculated and applied to other matters which are certainly more urgent. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. Senator has to finish. Corsini (Art.1-MDP). I will conclude by reaffirming my support for the motion for a resolution and, at the same time, asking the government to take up the questions I raised. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u50	You have the right to do so. I remind you, Senator, you only have five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u51	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, we will vote in favour of our reworded motion for a resolution, but we will also vote in favour of all the other motions for resolutions on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. We would like to reiterate a few comments. We had told the government, and we would like it to be noted, that we consider the issue of digital development to be vital, an immaterial infrastructure designed to radically change the ways of life and production structures. We invite the Government and the President-in-Office of the Council to take into account the fact that Brexit produces a profound change in the Italian financial balance due to the link between the Italian stock exchange and the city of London, what we have said is the London Stock Exchange, especially as regards the electronic platform that regulates the bargaining of government bonds. Of course, we will have to take into account - as everyone has said - the necessary measures that will have to be taken to curb migratory flows, especially along the Central Mediterranean route, and the transfer of the European Medicines Agency to Italian territory. On this point, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we would like to have a topical debate. We come, like many other senators, from the conference of Farmindustria that was held off Torre Argentina. There were dozens of senators present. We have also heard the Minister speak about the European Medicines Agency in Italy and say - of course we are happy - that we have treated and healed 79,000 Italian citizens with hepatitis C. The Minister, however, failed to say that it cost us 3.9 billion and that the only drug available was a Gilead drug and that the price was agreed with a secret negotiation. Well, we invite the Government to reflect on the fact that the hepatitis C patients in Italy are one and a half million and that if we had applied the same price as the drug in existence in Egypt, India and in other less developed countries than we, but who certainly care about health care, we would have treated the whole million and a half of Italians with 1.5 billion and we would have saved 2.4 billion. I say this because it is important, with the law of budget and stability in the planning phase, to remember that 15,000 people with hepatitis C die per year and that it is enough to do as the other European countries do to bring to total healing this million and a half of Italians. This is a social disease which we call for serious consideration. It is not enough to say that we gave our lives to 79,000 people, who are commendable, but it must be added that it cost us 3 and a half billion, while it could cost us 50 million. Between 50 million and 3 and a half billion, it seems to me that the difference is substantial. This also makes us reflect on the role of ANAC, which we believe no longer serves in Italy, because if in a private negotiation, where we spend 3 and a half billion (yesterday we made a motion on the big contracts of the Council and spoke of 2.7 billion), there is no trace of corruption, it means that in Italy corruption does not exist. With a private, secreted negotiation and the monopoly of an American multinational, the Italians paid for 79,000 healings 3 and a half billion, when they could spend only 50 million.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u53	He has the power to do so, but I call you to maximum stringency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u54	MANCUSO (AP-CpE-NCD). I will try to meet your request, President. As has already been mentioned in this House, the issues which the President of the Council will be dealing with together with his European counterparts are of particular topicality and delicacy: the issues concern on the one hand the Union's external relations (think about migration, security and defence issues); on the other hand, they concern the broad guidelines for internal development, in order to support and implement common positions on employment, growth and competitiveness. Added to all this is the issue of the opening of negotiations on Brexit: at best, positive negotiating developments will enable the European Council to launch this issue as well. Closely related to the Brexit negotiations is the fate of the EU agencies whose current seat is in the United Kingdom. It will be interesting to know what procedural arrangements will be established by the next Council for the transfer of these agencies, also because our country is one of the future candidates to host the new headquarters of EMA, the European Medicines Agency. In particular, will be approved the guidelines on which will be evaluated the dossiers of candidacy of the cities (including Milan) among which, by this year, will be chosen the one that will host the EMA: an opportunity not to be underestimated. But the point that is most important to our country is definitely the migration dossier. According to the publicised programme, the European Council will assess the implementation of the measures taken to stem migratory flows along the Central Mediterranean route. Our government will have to be strong in demanding commitments on the front of the reception, from building hot spots to speeding up procedures for the recognition of migrants; but it will also have to be resolute, in relation to the so-called double rigidity that the President of the Council spoke of, in demanding that the States of the European Union comply with the commitments they themselves have signed, specifically in relation to the redistribution of quotas of migrants arriving at the southern borders of the Union. Another extremely topical issue is the issue of progress in the field of external security and defence. A complex geopolitical context such as the current one, in which centrifugal fragmentation forces seem to be prevalent in the international scenario compared to those of solidarity cooperation, requires an indispensable strengthening of the European Union's cooperation. It is clear that the problems arising from such a convoluted international framework also reverberate at the level of internal security, as we are tragically called to witness almost daily. So, appropriately, the next European Council will be the appropriate forum for a debate on internal situations within the EU states at the highest level of Heads of State or Government. As the last point of my remarks, I would like to refer to the issues of employment and growth. The European Council has proposed to examine efforts to deepen the single market, especially in areas where European integration is lagging behind. Over the last few months, it has been noted from several quarters, with moderate satisfaction, that the Union as a whole has embarked on a new path of growth and job recovery. Italy too has managed to reverse the trend of a multi-year negative cycle; we have certainly not done enough and this is the right time to speed up this process, within the framework of European rules that must be implemented with a view to supporting the efforts of the Member States. Therefore, leaders will approve country-specific recommendations and conclude the 2017 European Semester. In conclusion, Mr President, it is clear that the European Union and, within it, Italy are called upon, each at its own level, to play a fundamental role in stimulating and further driving the engine of economic growth, the management of migration and the prevention and combating of terrorism and threats to the international order. We are confident that the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Silveri, knows and can, with the mandate of this House, interpret these needs with European partners in the best and most convincing way possible. [[Applause from Senator Colucci).]] I would ask the Presidency to allow me to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u55	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u57	You're free for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u58	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we cannot think that, since after the Brexit storm the climate (even at electoral level) of hostility towards Europe has been overcome, all issues are resolved. That is why the next European Council cannot fail to put back on the agenda - this is our thinking - the issue which concerns not generally the revival of Europe, and also a real debate on discontinuity with the policies that the European Union has followed so far. In particular, we are still inside the story that made sure that the economic crisis did not come out, also because of the choices made and that remain regarding the fiscal compact. We, however, obviously hope - and this is the meaning of our motion for a resolution - that this horizon of exit from the fiscal compact will be put on the agenda. We are very concerned - and I will concentrate on this - about the choices that concern security and defence. We do not believe that this is the time to increase expenditure on arms; it should be the time when, in particular, Italy is pursuing a policy against this type of exposure within the European Union and in favour of the implementation of peace policies. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude my speech by talking about the Paris Agreement: since everyone today feels better than Trump's America, we would not - and this is the point of our motion for a resolution - want to loosen the commitments relating to climate change agreements, which should be increased and implemented even more. Finally, remembering that we have not accepted the rewordings proposed by the Government, for all the reasons outlined we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by us, while we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution at the first signature of Senator Zanda. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u61	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies - PSI - MAIE very much appreciated the balance of communications made by the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri, who recall the credibility of the positions supported by Italy on today's priority issues such as security, the fight against terrorism, active policies towards migrants and the negotiations on Brexit. We therefore fully agree with the Government's approach to these problems. Italy is right to reaffirm the Union's strategic character and to demand, at the same time, that, in order to be shared and strengthened, the European Union should be deeply renewed. We also agree with the words spoken by President Gentiloni Silveri in memory of the German Chancellor Kohl, who died a few days ago. The Chancellor has not only reunited Germany, but has made a huge contribution to the unification of Europe, even at the cost of sacrificing some of Germany's symbols, as happened with the abandonment of the German mark in favour of the euro, despite the strong resistance of the German population. With regard to Brexit, the European Union has the burden and the right to set negotiations in order to clarify their relations. It is in fact not conceivable that those who want to leave the European Union, in order to no longer have to respect the free movement of workers, will then insist on continuing to benefit from the free movement of goods. With regard to the policies governing migration, Europe must be more supportive, not only in words, but also with concrete facts. Italy is the frontier of Europe, but so far it has operated in the absence of Europe, and so we certainly cannot move forward. With regard to anti-terrorism policies in the field of security, European countries appear to be in difficulty in the face of the dramatic evolution that the attacks have marked. For these reasons, the Autonomous Group will vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Senator Zanda, also signed by our Group, and of the other motions on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u64	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, this time I will speak briefly, starting with the Group's intention to vote on the motions for resolutions which have been tabled. We shall abstain on the motion for a resolution tabled by the North League. We shall vote against the majority resolution. We will abstain on Senator Barani's first-signed resolution. We shall vote in favour of the first-signed motion for a resolution by Senator De Petris, of course, in favour of our own and, finally, in favour of the first-signed motion for a resolution by Senator Paolo Romani. With regard to our expression of vote, I would first like to point out why we do not accept the proposed rewordings, because it is important to understand what are the points that do not really go down to our colleagues in the majority. Firstly, there is the arms part and the concept of common defence. What has not gone down to you, colleagues in the majority, and which you have asked to remove from the device, is the commitment to move resources from the armaments sector to other sectors, such as, for example, social protection. This passage was requested tout court. This means that you do not even want to hear about intervention in the defence and arms sector: this is the left or centre-left! Another thing that is indigesting is the concept of "income support actions." After hearing about "inclusion income," I wouldn't have expected that. This is probably because we are talking about "nationality income." If you want, we can call it another way, but the essence is that this remains very indigestible to you, because it becomes impossible to implement wage deflation practices, which is a concept in scientific literature that arises when you want to increase competitiveness. In fact, it is not clear why we have to compete in a union: in a union we cooperate, we do not compete with Germany, otherwise what union have I done? I make a division, tops. So we do not understand very well, in this context, how we could be more competitive or more productive - except that our productivity is similar to that of Germany - if we do not intervene on wages and doing wage deflation, as authoritative economists have said. If you can't do this, you have to deflation. If I predict a citizenship income, I can no longer deflation because I offer a choice: that's another reason why we cannot accept that you remove this qualifying point. The justification for our vote against the first-signed resolution by Senator Zanda is partly inherent in what has also been stated in the communications. Only a very slight mention has been made of the Paris Agreement and the consequent withdrawal from the Agreement by the American administration, on the understanding that a State comes out of the agreements and enters it according to a principle of international fair play recognized over the centuries, so so easily you can enter and so easily then exit (other concept that obviously does not like). Well, on the concept of combating climate change, which you do not want to hear about, I would like to point out, gentlemen, that climate change is now: with 1.2 degrees of increase in the average planetary temperature we have the third worst drought since the beginning of 1800, and so it is about two hundred years. We have an incredible plumviometric deficit. The lake of Bracciano, which is the water tank of Rome, risks disappearing: 50 square kilometers of lake risk disappearing and you can make this disappear from the agenda that you want to bring to the Council of Europe. Why? Of course, our commitments to contain the temperature of 1.5 degrees can be made by the European nations, Poland excluded, without doing anything: we, by letting it be done, are on the line to achieve our reduction commitments. Poland depends on coal for 92 percent of its primary energy generation and, therefore, is obviously out of scale. Why then does the theme disappear from the agenda? He disappears for the simple reason he doesn't care. We can do this without intervening. I would like to make one last remark on the resolution of the League, which contains several points that can be shared. What has led us to abstain is the third commitment, which begins with the words: "to promote the creation in the countries of departure and transit of specific fields." The devil also hides himself in the words: we speak of "campo" while in the resolution at the first signature of Senator Paolo Romani we speak of "place of safety," which sounds better; the concept of "campo" evokes something else. Therefore, if there is a good intention behind this commitment, it should be clarified in a better way. It is acceptable that there is a protected reception area, because there are no protected areas in Libya. If we want to make a protected center, we must ask for a force of interposition: however, having an unrecognized Government and two parties in struggle, this becomes a problem. Therefore, the concept is as follows: if it is true that an individual who arrives from Sierra Leone and arrives in Libya is at the mercy of the worst human scum, who only waits to exploit it, a safe zone must be created where his position can be examined without having life in danger. Mine is a suggestion to try to put these points down in another way in the future; if you want to get a consensus on the proposal too, you have to do so. I have already said on the first-signed motion for a resolution by Senator Paolo Romani that we will vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u67	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we thank the Government for its favourable opinion on our proposals, but we ask it to take seriously the commitments made in this House, having already taken them in other circumstances. In particular, we remember the commitments needed to demand the change of the international order on rescue at sea, the rules of the Treaty of Dublin regarding the treatment and the place where the people who arrive in Europe (unfortunately, very much in our country). I remember that 84% of those arriving in Europe arrive in Italy, so the situation is very important. We are calling for a special commitment on the issue of relocations, but we are well aware that it is not relocation that solves the problems. Last year 181,000 people arrived in Italy with landings and it was planned to relocate 39.600 of these. Even if they were all relocated, the numbers would still be overwhelming. It must also be borne in mind that the numbers tell us that this year there will be a sharp increase in landings. Actually, of those 39,600 relocations only 6,500 took place. I do not think that only Poland and Hungary are missing. Therefore, the real problem is to really make a policy of containment at the base. In our motion for a resolution we have mentioned a document which is not only of the Forza Italia Group, having been approved by the Senate Defence Commission, which calls for a series of specific commitments, from humanitarian corridors made only by States, to the amendment of international legislation, to the need for the coordination of rescue at sea to involve everyone and not, as is the case today, always and only Italy. As mentioned earlier, the President-in-Office of the Council has called for a common immigration policy, but this would mean that the Italian Government does not want to be the first in the class in a number of areas. In the opinion of some, in some areas we have come to be the first in the class, while in the opinion of others we have gone too far, without creating any interest in having a common policy. We approve of the legislation on unaccompanied minors that arrive in our country that the same majority has defined at the vanguard and wants to modify the law on citizenship, putting us - also here - to the first or second place in Europe in terms of generosity in granting the right of citizenship (place, moreover, that already today the Italian law in force grants this right to a far greater extent than the other countries). If we do this, then we cannot be credible or acceptable when we call for a common European policy at international level. We support many of the efforts that the Government is supporting, in particular to bring the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority to Italy. In addition to us, which we support in Parliament, the Lombardy Region, in whose Giunta Forza Italia is among the protagonists, is working concretely to resolve these problems. We also support the common European defence policy. I take note of what the President-in-Office of the Council has said, namely that there is even a saving of several tens of billions at European level (some even speak of EUR 100 billion). But we must be careful: when I say that the government must take the commitments seriously, it must take those that it itself has taken seriously. I remember that on 4 September 2014 the President of the Council Renzi undertook to bring Italian defence expenditure to a figure of 2% of GDP. So we have to coordinate and say that's not true. But unfortunately the commitment was also made by the President of the Council Renzi. That of 2% is not an invention of Trump, but a very old thing that demands NATO and that, if it had been respected even just since 2014, would have required many billion more spending. In summary, we reiterate our request to the Government to defend with determination the Italian interests at international level and, in particular, to keep to the commitments it assumes accepting our demands, in particular on migration policy, security, economic issues and sanctions to the Russian Federation that very much damage our economy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u70	I would also like to call for the maximum summary so that the House can vote on the motions for resolutions. CHITI (PD). Mr President, I would like to hand over the text of the speech, but I cannot do so because I have only a brief note. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the basic judgment given by the President-in-Office of the Council on the situation in the European Union, namely that it has broken down and has not given up or resigned, nor has there been a collapse. You have to change and move on. This, however, is a discriminatory point which emerges from the debate that has taken place in this House and not just from the motions for resolutions tabled. There are among us political forces who argue that we should not be in the euro or in the European Union and others like ours who believe that the present and future destiny is to be in the European Union, but that the European Union must and can be changed. This is a crucial point for us. Senator Monti has raised a question that I consider serious, when he asked why in a year like the current one, characterized by events like Brexit and a recovery of European feeling in Italy, but this has not been recorded, if not very relatively. The reasons, of course, may be different, but one of them - in my opinion - is political and I feel it to be a serious fact: there has not been a reversal perhaps because the European forces have not done and do not openly fight against the forces that do not want Europe, as happened in France. Macron won the elections by claiming to put the reform and change of the European Union first. This seems to me to be a decisive point and ultimately what characterizes the current majority of government. I'd like to get out of a situation that seems ungenerous and unfair to me. Of course, the current majority of government was born from the fact that in the elections neither the center-left nor the center-right won. The majority of governments, however, as demonstrated by the resolution that we are about to vote on and on which we vote in favour - is made up of forces that want to change Europe but stay in Europe, who feel the European Union's objective as a strategic one. From this point of view - I mean - there is a democratic centre in our country that has no ambiguity. I thank Alternativa Popolare for not having ambiguity with respect to this point. It is essential to stick to the prospect of building the European Union. Change how and with what steps? We must say that the Italian governments in this legislature, the current Government and Parliament have made serious proposals. And I understand the difficulties of Senator Candiani, who records the defeats of lepenism, to talk about something else. We have raised the issues of a close connection between democratic reforms and economic and social reforms. We have put forward the proposal, undersecretary Gozi, which we support, that some of the seats reserved for the United Kingdom, which will cease to be used for transnational lists, and that the leader should be the candidate for the Presidency of the Commission of the European Union. We argue that the President of the Commission of the European Union is the same as the European Council. And we support economic and social reforms, a development consistent with ecology and labour rights, climate issues. I would like to say to Senator Malan that our country has - so to speak - the problem of having better performance from the point of view of pollution because it is more advanced on the renewable energy front and has gas and hydrocarbons, despite that much of the transport still happens on rubber, on the highways. If we are later on, we must urge others, within the Treaty of Paris, to do so. We do not have to say whether the others pollute more, we have to go back and pollute more ourselves. I don't think that's the way to go. We are and want to remain within the Paris Agreement. Senator Monti has again raised an issue that I would like to turn to you, Mr President, and to the presidency of the Senate collectively. Senator Monti is right when he says that it is not possible in this House to hold a debate on the issues of the European Union outside the European Council meeting. In December, there will be a reform of the European budget: do we want to discuss in this House how we see this reform? If the European Union has 1% of the total public budget of the Member States (not 24% of the federal budget of the United States, but at least 4.3% or 7%), it is difficult to make incisive policies. Do we want to discuss these issues in Parliament? Do we want to devote a session to discussing the prospects of the European Union in this direction? And enhanced cooperation - and I say this to my fellow Members who did not agree - is the right way forward and was reaffirmed in Rome at the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Treaties. It's right that we move on. I also hope that considerable progress will be made in the European Council on enhanced cooperation on security and defence. A year ago the Italian Senate conducted a research which showed that in the 28 countries of the European Union a lot is spent on defence, but everyone saves in the same direction: little efficiency and much expense. This is a military worm, as former Secretary of State Kissinger defines our situation. Setting up the armed forces and enhanced cooperation in this direction on security and defence means spending better, probably saving money and, in any case, addressing with confidence the policies that we have to face towards our neighbours and giving security to our citizens within the Union. The last word concerns the situation of migrants. In this respect, progress is insufficient but there are and must be recorded, because they are also the result of our action. I will start with the fact that they are not enough, as Senator Malan has already said. There are 160,000 people to be relocated who are entitled to asylum; 20,033 relocations were made (14,240 from Greece, 6.977 from Italy), and are therefore insufficient. But there are also steps forward. Why not record them? The European Commission has opened infringement proceedings against Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic because they do not respect decisions on relocation. It's an important point. Why should this not be emphasized? I agree with Senator Corsini's considerations on migration. The Dublin Agreement needs to be revised and the Advocate-General of the Court of Justice of the European Union says that it is inapplicable to emergency situations and that gives strength to our approaches. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us also say that the Dublin Agreement was not signed by a centre-left government. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] We manage it with responsibility. Let us also say another truth: if we want solidarity from Europe - and we want it - we must also demand solidarity from Italy, because all the municipalities that do not accept those who have the right to asylum (and they are people), force the other municipalities to take responsibility for the double and to live a situation of difficulty. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti]] Do you want to govern this problem or do you want to play for a handful of votes to get rid of your conscience and, above all, your responsibility, to be alternate days in solidarity or contrary to these criteria of solidarity? These are the main reasons why we support the government's action from my point of view and, appreciating the fact that there are motions for a majority resolution, we will vote with conviction on motion for a resolution No 2, at the first signature of our Parent Company. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 4 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u72	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the requests of ten out of eleven Parents have come along the short lines so that tomorrow's sessions do not take place in order to allow the election campaign for the ballots to take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u75	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, of course we are the 11th Group which has not made such a request and which is against the proposal not to hold the sitting tomorrow. We therefore call for this proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u76	I shall put to the vote the request not to hold the sittings scheduled for tomorrow's day. It's approved. Colleagues, this also allows us, for the timing of the amendments, to have more time than the so-called anti-mafia code. Therefore, I believe that it is a decision that has advantages for the next measure as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-843.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.13 a.m.
