ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u10	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my Group, I must point out an episode of unprecedented seriousness which has occurred in our country. You see, the Italian judiciary is a great judiciary, it is the pillar that governs the justice of our country, it must be protected and we have a duty to protect it. Well, it happened that in Bologna the Registry of the Court of Review notify a lawyer who has a hearing a sentence; the lawyer, amazed, thinks he was wrong and did not go to the hearing the previous day, but then, reading the act, realizes that in the body of the sentence... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you're getting into this. He mentioned it, but now he's done. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Why do I have to finish? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Because, yeah, I'm done. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Let me say that those magistrates notified a judgment of the following day, that is, a hearing that had not yet been held: this is the data. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, let us now proceed with the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2630. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u12	Mr President, this is the usual climate, from the square. We are at the 60th trust and this is the fourth time that we have voted on a thousandprorogates. In some amendments we have the feeling of a déjà vu, because the themes are always the same. We have seen the delay for the adaptation of the legislation on the fire-fighting adaptation of schools, for the emanation of the SINP that has been waiting since 2008, for the Sistri that does not work and that has never worked, but in return, instead of penalizing the Selex, we reward it with the gift of rite. Then there are amendments for the earthquake of L'Aquila, the earthquake of Irpinia, the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna and of course also for the last seismic event. For this last earthquake in part we have made good sense to correct a mistake, a drafting defect, as regards the heavy pay envelope, where the benefit was given to the substitute tax rather than to the citizen. In this case too, the incongruity is not to understand the reality of the situation, because to favour citizens with a delay of payments, and then to ask them all, even delayed, in December is a bit of a mockery; at least we expected a reduction of the return, as was done also at other dramatic events, such as the last earthquake in Marche and Umbria in 1997. But in this tragic situation it would have been right to do a sanatorium and not to ask for refunds. I repeat, the situation is critical and today we have had a partial quantification of the damage assessment by the European Union. So, so many inconsistencies. Among other things, there is also the question of the so-called Bolkestein directive. There was yet another protest. We were not in Europe when we should have been and now we have a directive - I am referring to the Bolkestein directive - which is not consistent with the reality of our country and is totally inadequate. We are a different country, with different situations and needs. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but it is very difficult to speak with this chaos. This is really demotivating. [[Call the president back.]] There are streetwalkers, who rightly protest. A derogation from a scheme which the municipalities have already begun to apply is proposed. I wonder if it was so difficult to deal with this issue differently, for example by providing for a system of rankings that would take account of existing licences, since small traders find themselves in difficulty not even being able to pay the loans they have contracted to purchase the licence. The most shameful thing - the gem - between the many inconsistencies and the many referrals is a shameful amendment with which a ban has been inserted that corresponds - practically - to a derogation from the legislative decree of 4 March 2014, n. 26. I would remind you that this measure, approved by this Parliamentary Assembly, contains the transposition of Directive 2010/63/EU on animal testing as well. Again, a derogation is required. What's the excuse? That an infringement procedure has been initiated by the European Union. But what are we going to do if the infringement procedure has not been communicated to Parliament? Let's go with fantasy. Is there an infringement? Let us present it to Parliament. We don't know what this is about. We only know one thing. According to Eurispes data, more than 80% of Italians claimed to be against vivisection, but here we have nevertheless transposed the directive, despite the numerous signatures (over 60,000) collected by the LAV to avoid this extension. Moreover, there are constant solicitations to do better because in the country sensitivity is aimed at the protection and respect of animals. Nevertheless, what do we do? We're going by way of unnecessary trials. Who needs these trials? Of course, to those who have asked for them, that is to say to certain associations such as Search for life, which represents the main players of biomedical research. These sent a letter to Lorenzin, Calenda and Fedeli, claiming that the country has severely penalized research for this reason, which absolutely does not correspond to reality, as has been demonstrated. I make my own the words of the LAV about those who insist on this type of research. I remember that it is also a matter of experimenting on animals with the effects of the abuse of substances such as smoking, alcohol and drugs. Now, it is obvious; common sense also tells us that smoking or drugs cannot have the same effect on a dog as that produced on a person. Today there are highly predictive and more useful alternative methods if we really want to do this type of research (but we could fund research for many other more useful things). In any case, the LAV has rightly said that those who insist on this type of research do not involve Italy in the numerous Community calls for the allocation of economic resources for the development of alternative methods to vivisection, by running away abroad Italian researchers blocked by the dogma of animal experimentation, above all underpaid by a research in crisis that cannot look to the future and which presents serious gaps on the most avant-garde and competitive techniques that do not resort to animals and would be for Italy a great opportunity for growth and to be sometimes an example at European level. We must not give in to the pressure of economic interest, Mr President, I say this to the House, but we must respect European standards and ensure that the famous Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which recognises the welfare of animals as the value of the Union, is indeed binding and not a mockery. Garattini says that science is not recognized in Italy as a form of culture. I would like to say that it is true that culture in Italy is penalized, even in other respects, but surely this is annoying about unnecessary experiments, when there would be so much more to invest and do, this useless and free cruelty, which has only the objective of doing a number of experiments in order to be able to access funds (so not to give useful news in more, but only to have an economic profit), are neither culture, nor science. They are not culture, because culture is other, and they are not science, because it is typical of science to see progress, to look forward and not to go back, as in this anchoring to these mental deviations you are used to do. So we find ourselves with these umpteenth absurd measures, in which we penalize the people who have done well and give a reward to those who hurt, instead of giving them a sanction. And we do this with confidence, because we know that this measure is also trust. And then, at the fourth thousandpronges we vary, we learned nothing and, if possible, we get worse. We no longer listen to each other when we are in this Chamber, because we know that everything we say is useless and we do so to pass the time. The enthusiasm returns to other locations, where other stories are discussed, which have nothing to do with the country and the Italians, but have to do with rents of position and exchanges of armchairs. All this is very sad and, as usual, concerns the interest of the few, while the most, that we should represent, are not heard. I thank you for not listening and I am truly outraged by such conduct of things and measures. [[Applause from the Senators Council and Ceroni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I should first like to thank you for the sensitivity and attention that the Government, the rapporteur, Mr Collina, and all the members of the 1st Commission have shown in relation to the issues that we, as the Autonomous Group, have placed within the measure. These are in particular amendments which take account of the difficulties of small and medium-sized enterprises in meeting bureaucratic and financial deadlines, which require a more extensive timetable, motivated solely by principles of common sense and not by the desire to extend the deadlines. I am referring, only to the examples that are most important to me, to the postponement of the entry into force of the single book of work in telematic mode and to the extension of the deadline for adapting to the fire safety standards of alpine shelters and accommodation facilities. Two provisions, the latter of which are absolutely important, but with a financial and bureaucratic cost of considerable importance, which is why the extension is absolutely necessary, particularly at a time of crisis such as the present, in order to allow such structures to be able to be put in order without going through excessive financial exposure. There is also an extension for the adaptation of small agricultural plants to the standards for fire prevention, in particular for fuel tanks for agricultural machinery; an additional burden for the already fragile economic management of small farms. But I am also referring to the extension of the requirement to be licensed for the use of agricultural machinery. To date, it is estimated that only 20% of the approximately 500 000 staff in the sector have completed the relevant refresher course; therefore, this extension is necessary in order to allow the vast majority of operators to get into order. There is also an extension linked to the reporting requirements for data relating to intra-Community purchases of goods and services received from persons resident in other Member States of the European Union, introduced by a 2016 flash standard. This extension is of close interest to Italian customs forwarders, about 10,000 permanent employees, who today are in great difficulty for the surprise introduction of the norm. The category had requested to move the expiry date to 2020, the year for which the 28 countries of the European Union said they were ready for the use of common IT systems. However, the entry into force moved to 31 December 2017 reassures companies, as well as we are satisfied with the simplification measures introduced with the same amendment. Finally, I would like to refer to the entry into force of the Bolkestein directive when it comes to street trade: a debate which has also taken place in this House today. Yesterday there was a protest by the operators and we were able to listen to a delegation from them in the Commission. The rapporteur has proposed a mediation between the desire to extend the entry into force of the directive and the opportunity to recognise the virtuous path carried out by some regions, which, through comparison with the category, have managed to identify criteria and requirements that safeguard honest companies, who have done their work correctly in recent years and who are rightly entitled to an absolute priority in the reassignment of available places. I confess that I would have preferred the wording originally contained in the government text, but I recognise that the rapporteur's proposal nevertheless addresses the concerns rightly expressed by a category that operates under difficult conditions, with heavy displacements, often in unfavourable climatic conditions, in places often peripheral and uncomfortable. This is not, of course, the measure with which to deal with all the issues raised yesterday by the operators, and that is why I ask the Government to give a deep reflection on the possibility of excluding street trade from the application of the directive, just as the vast majority of European countries have done and to provide us instead with good national legislation, which gives wide autonomy to the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. That is why I have signed Mr Ruta's agenda, which commits the Government to seriously tackling the need to regulate the sector. The street trade is run by many small and very small family businesses, which carry out an important service even in the most remote and lacking centers of shops. Moreover, it is a sector that has always been characterized by the sale of products that do not enter the large distribution, in some cases to turn to those buyers particularly attentive to the price, in others because they are retail and niche sales, in particular in specialized fairs and related to agro-food. On the other hand, today we run the risk of transforming the street trade into a branch of large retailers and major international brands. I believe that what they heard yesterday are proposals to be taken seriously, if we do not want to run the risk of putting so many families of workers in difficulties and a sector that has never had a simple life. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u15	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u16	Mr President, I will not go back to the questions I have already put to the House regarding the constitutionality of the measure today to our examination and to the question referred to us earlier. It constitutes, in our opinion, yet another ratification of the inefficiency and inability of the Government to implement a series of norms and, at the same time, to be able to tackle, with appropriate and specific measures, many nodes that are before us and that cause great problems to our country. I will therefore concentrate on the issues contained in the multipronged measure which I consider to be fundamental, including, first of all, the issue of the affair of precarious workers, on which the minimum necessary has been done, through the changes introduced in the Commission. I am thinking, for example, of the 887 units of prison police personnel, the recruitment of the Higher Institute of Health, the affair of the ISTAT precarious, which has caused us so much tribulation, because who knows what seemed to be produced, in order to be able to extend the contracts of the ISTAT precarious. On this point we have made our contribution: a small satisfaction, however, in the face of a number of other issues that remain absolutely unsolved. I am also thinking of the affair that concerns all the precarious in the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities. I have little time, but I believe - and the President-in-Office of the 1st Commission knows this well, because we have discussed it for a long time - that on the whole of the Provinces and, therefore, the implementation of the Delrio law, there have been failures through a reform which, after the referendum, leaves the Provinces in the Constitution. Well, in our view, the failures that have been caused both on the staff side and on the services side will have to be the subject of serious intervention by Parliament and the Government. Still continuing on the affair of the precarious, we have made a series of requests that have not been taken into account at all. I refer, for example, to the fact that even on the issue of unemployment benefit called DIS-Coll there was an extension of only six months, so we all wonder what will happen at the end, in June 2017, while the idea, which we had advanced, was not taken into account at all, of the extension of at least one year which gave a little more certainty. I do not want to go into the question of extending the women's option, which has not been taken into account at all, but which, in our view, also needed serious consideration. On the general front of school, university and research, the amendment introduced in the Commission with regard to the extension to the academic year 2016-2017 of the possibility of drawing on the national graduations that are exhausted (GAE) for the assignment of teaching assignments for an indefinite and determined time limited to the institutions of the High Artistic, Musical and Coreutica (AFAM) leaves us not very satisfied, indeed partially content, because we would have liked our amendment that reopened the rankings in 2017 to all precarious teachers, in order to counter again in this case the abuse of fixed-term contracts. We have approved an amendment on the extension, of course, of the possibility for each university to use the call procedure as professors and permanent researchers in service at the university and in possession of the scientific qualification, but as you can see, these are small things in the face of big issues that all remain before us. We are also absolutely unhindered because once again we are moving forward with the extension to 31 December 2017 of the rules for the fire regulation for school buildings; last night an amendment was even adopted that concerns not only hotels but kindergartens, so we continue with a policy that always tries to postpone the actions of compliance, with a really serious impact from the point of view of safety. Every time the misfortunes happen, we all say that we have to invest in safety in the workplace and especially in school buildings, but then every time the milleproroghe arrives and exactly the opposite happens. There are two issues which have drawn our attention and which I would like to draw strongly here. The first is as follows: those who know us know that we in the Italian Left, but also in the past in other ways, have always tried to draw everyone's attention to what would have led to the entry into force of the Bolkestein directive. Alarms have been launched and appeals have been made about what this would have produced on the social front as far as services are concerned. We moved in the direction of transposition of the directive in 2010, without taking care of what would have been the impacts on certain areas. The application of Bolkestein is likely to cause enormous damage to the street trade. Therefore, the fundamental question that we have to face - and we hope to be able to do so by means of a motion or other absolutely necessary rules and interventions - is to ensure that this sector, like others, is excluded from the application of this directive. What happened in the Commission? Precisely because we must be cautious, because there is a negotiation in progress and we must understand well the impact of this directive, as well as the Antitrust ruling on the same agreement of the State-Regions Conference, we had simply asked to at least attest to the text of the Government, i.e. on an extension to December 2018. It seems to me that it was nothing so subversive. Instead, it wanted to insist on reaffirming that, in any case, procedures must be initiated by the municipalities by December 2018, to say and, therefore, to want to show all the zeal of those who say that, however, the directive must also apply to this sector. I call on the majority senators once again to reflect on this issue. Also because, let's face it. You cannot, as some members of the Democratic Party have done, go there, promise, show that you were on their side and then behave completely differently, perhaps by four votes. We need to be very clear; we need to have the interest not only of this sector at heart, and we need to have the pulse, especially in the Centre-South, of what the social and employment impacts will be. I would also like to focus on another matter, which I find shameful. While there is a great deal of zeal in wanting to apply the directive, it is not as zealous as it is in wanting to apply, for example, the directive (and especially the law adopted on the basis of how the directive was transposed by this Parliament and this Senate) on vivisection. Once again, we are only going to extend the entry into force of the prohibitions. Therefore, after a three-year moratorium on vivisection with regard to tests both for psychotropic substances, and for smoking and xenotraplants, a moratorium which would have given the opportunity to be able, in some way, finally to insist on and start research using alternative methods, here too it has been tried to make a further extension of even five years, after the Government had already requested an extension of one year. And at the end of the day, there was a three-year extension. I find this to be a very serious matter, not only because once again we are opposed to the rules we have voted on, but because, once again, we are doing an operation which is totally distorting the true reality of research. Continuing to extend in this way responds to the needs, not of science and research, with the "s" and the "r" capital, but only to some very precise interests. We could discuss this for a long time, and I have done so a great deal in the Commission. We continue to have a certain opinion about some trials. I could go on reading the reaction made by the experimental zooprofiling institute of Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna to find absolutely some elements of total contradiction. Evidently everyone is moved when we bring to Sanremo the dogs who helped in Abruzzo for the rescue in the hotel in Rigopiano, to make audience, so everyone boasts of the 16 million spectators. They make everyone move, we use them for that, and they also help us save lives. Then, however, we do not think twice, but not once, about setting standards and approving amendments, as in this case, which continue to give only cruelty and suffering, without any benefit to us humans. We discussed gender medicine for a long time yesterday to say that medicine between men and women is different. Think of you if the animal model can be completely superimposed on the human model. Continuing these experiments, we do not only do ethical damage, but we do harm to the future of research in this country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico Linguistico Statale (Liceo Scientifico Linguistico Statale), Augustine Maria De Carlo, Giugliano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to convert a decree-law that brings important regulatory adjustments to meet the need, felt in many areas, to update the relevant terms of law to the evolution of reality and the needs of citizens. It is a tool of which has been made constant use in recent years and, of course, an instrument that gives the sign of harsh criticality to overcome both in terms of the definitive resolution of medium - long-term problems, and of the implementation of legislation. In any case, the rights and interests used in the measure are absolutely worthy of protection by the State and the Government has done well to take charge of it also on this occasion. Today, we are talking about the precariousness of public administrations, the publishing sector, workers at risk of losing the integration fund, the financial sustainability of the budgets of local authorities, the pharmaceutical sector and the earthquake emergency. We are all aware of how topical these issues are and how urgently the Government and Parliament must respond to all those who are directly and indirectly addressed to the rules in question. Among the qualifying points of the decree-law, it seems necessary to refer to the extension of the assignments of the team dedicated to the protection and enhancement of the site of Pompeii, recently at the center of the visit of the European Commissioner. This continues for another twelve months the assignments of collaboration for the project activities and support to the Grand Pompeii project. In the environmental field, the take-over of the new concessionaire is extended until 31 December 2017 and the period during which the waste management obligations prior to the waste traceability control system continue to apply. With regard to the public administration sector, the 10 per cent cut in fees for members of management, management and control bodies, boards of directors and the blockage of rents paid by public administrations is extended to 31 December 2017. As regards recruitment, the rankings of public competitions for permanent recruitment (including police bodies), fixed-term employment contracts and co-ordinated and ongoing collaboration contracts, including project contracts, and those of the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities staff for employment centres continue to apply. In the field of emergency interventions, the possibility of spending for earthquake-stricken entities for 2017 is increased for interventions aimed at dealing with earthquake damage and facilitating reconstruction. It is in fact extended to 31 December 2017, with the investment of 32 million euros, in the municipalities hit by the earthquake of 2016 the suspension of the loans and other financings and for another six months of the invoices of gas, electricity, water, insurances, telephone, RAI, and whatever else, and the start of reconstruction interventions for which it is already in possession of plans executive and chronoprogramma. The extraordinary contribution to the reconstruction of the Municipality of L'Aquila is also refinanced. In the field of labour, the special wage integration measure for enterprises operating in a complex industrial crisis area is extended for 2017 and the allowance fund is refinanced by way of derogation for the fisheries sector, with appropriate integration resulting from the review by the 1st Commission. As far as the security forces sector is concerned, I would like to point out the provisions allowing information and security services agents to conduct personal interviews with persons detained or interned to prevent terrorist acts, those which extend the possibility for the Carabinieri Arm and the other police forces to ensure that staff are regularly paid overtime as of January this year. Finally, I would like to mention the rule by which more time is allocated for municipalities, provinces, regions, state administrations and other public entities to draw up extraordinary plans for residential buildings to be rented at rates agreed with state personnel engaged in the fight against organised crime. Equally significant were the changes introduced by the Commission in substance, for example with regard to the tourism chapter, with the postponement of the deadline for the fire-fighting adaptation of hotel facilities, and to the business chapter, with the extension of one year of the entry into force of the new legislation on recruitment obligations and the postponement of the obligation to keep the single labour book online for one year. Slide to 31 December 2017 the deadline for municipalities to entrust the renovation works of the schools in order not to lose the resources assigned to this purpose by the decree of the doing. The school buildings will have an additional year, due to expire on 31 December 2017, to comply with the fire regulations. The submission of the documentation was initially scheduled for 31 December 2016. Mr President, these are some of the key points of a measure which has a positive impact on the economy and on Italian citizens. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u20	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u21	Mr President, today we are celebrating a threefold defeat for this Parliament and this political class, starting with the umpteenth confidence that does not allow Parliament to legislate and confront itself as would be appropriate for a serious Parliament. The second defeat is the thousand-pronged, which represents the inability of a political class to make long-term programming and not to find itself constantly having to extend norms and codicils that, on the other hand, would need serious political action. I would also like to point out that there is a failure in relations with the European Union: while we are closed here and outside the streetwalkers rightly protest, the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) has just been approved at European level, the EU-Canada Free Trade Treaty, in the silence of all. This treaty is absolutely devastating precisely for the very small Italian agricultural entrepreneurship that will be delivered to Italy large quantities of products that transit through the United States in Canada and then arrive in Europe. They are low-cost and poor-quality products with which our small farmers will not be able to compete. And we're going to the milleprorogues. I would like to focus on the Bolkestein directive, for which the streetwalkers outside have been protesting for days, which has basically been unheard. For those who do not know, the Bolkestein Directive is a 2006 directive which has only been fully transposed by Italy and Spain. We who are always late in transposing the directives imposed on us by the European Union - which are, at times, of perfect common sense, as in waste management - are rushing to transpose directives which harm us. The Bolkestein Directive was intended to allow free entrepreneurship throughout the European Union and, therefore, free trade in goods, as required by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; however, the fact that we and Spain alone have received it in full (which, among other things, postponed it in its full transposition in 75 years' time) means that the public spaces that our streetwalkers, with difficulty, have been occupying for many years to hold that micro-entrepreneurship that is so good for us, can only be obtained by participating in European calls. In these European calls our streetwalkers will be able to participate by spending money without the guarantee of obtaining the spaces they now occupy, while it will not be possible to participate in competitions in other countries since other countries have not transposed the directive. There will be people who will come to invest in Italy, but we will not be able to invest in other member countries, because they were much smarter than us. Article 12 of the Bolkestein Directive, precisely, will bring to its knees an entrepreneurship that counts 200,000 operators throughout Italy, 20,000 only in Lazio, and a large part of the campaigns of our beautiful Italy that with the price plant that cannot even cover the production costs of agricultural products, find in direct sale the only way to survive. I do not want to dwell on the long-standing issue of the Bolkestein directive, but I believe that we all have a duty to respond to the streetwalkers who are manifesting out here. Unfortunately, you even forced the municipalities to start issuing bans by 2018, but history cannot end here. Having passed this umpteenth confidence - which we will of course vote no - the Government must listen seriously to the demands of these small and very small traders: sit down at a table with the Regions and with the operators and finally give dignity to a class of small entrepreneurs that we no longer know how to protect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I had decided not to speak, since we are talking unnecessarily, in a debate that has become in the deaf: this time too, it seems that you will put your trust. However, I have raised a problem, which stems from the competence that comes from the full knowledge of the problems that poses the management of the real. I have to record a formidable error in the amendment of the Government of 10,2000, which amends the deadline referred to in the first paragraph of Article 194 of Royal Decree No 12 of 1941 only for first-appointing audiences. Mr Undersecretary, you probably do not know what the judicial organization is and so you imagined, first, that you would abolish the retirement time, then you extended the time limits, rejecting an amendment of mine that had planned for you to enter into full operation according to the years and staggerings until December 2017, then you issued a first extension equal to my amendment and, finally, you imagined a second extension only for some, not realizing that this leads to an imbalance, which is now further accentuated. I do not need to resort to particular experience or knowledge: even a child would understand what it means to reduce the time to three years for a group of first-appointed magistrates, you understand that very well. If I were a magistrate in Milan and asked to exercise in Sicily, because maybe I want to make a contribution in the fight against the mafia, after three years I would have matured my right to be transferred; you extended the time necessary to mature this right to four years and instead you have reduced it to three years only for the first nomination audiences: this means that the place of judge that I wanted to cover will go to a young man and that my sacrifice will have been useless. This is really absurd. Not only the amendments I had signed, but also those of Senator Cuomo and other Senators of the Democratic Party, such as that of Senator Cucca, highlighted this problem that you did not at all examine, neither the Commission nor the Government (I do not know whether the Commission was induced by the contrary opinion of the Government). Then I have to complain. And I would like to turn to the Vice-President of the 1st Commission, whom I thank for accepting my amendment 10.26, although subject to rewording and limited to the first part. This amendment concerns the advocacy. What happened? When we discussed the reform of the forensic profession, we abolished the possibility for writings to consult the commented code. Why? The law that provided for the consultation of the commented code was sacrosanct, since no lawyer carries out the profession without consulting the code and comments of the jurisprudence; the problem was that commented codes were printed which also reported the doctrine. For this reason, the code commented on by written evidence has rightly been excluded. This amendment, which was accepted in its first part up to the word: "five" was then intended to change the rule by providing for the use of the commented code, but only with the references of the jurisprudence. It would be enough for there to be a minimum of organisation in this Parliament. We cannot go on thinking only about the extension of the milleprorogues. I just want to make it clear that if there is a mistake, we should have a chance to discuss it. But who do I discuss it with? With whom, if the relevant government bodies and representatives are not present? Mr Secretary, I am asking you to understand what the problem is: you are destroying a series of young people. It is no longer tolerable that they should reach thirty years in order to start the professional activity of lawyer and thirty-two and thirty-three years in order to begin that of magistrate. Do you realize that with what you have done, suddenly falling from above, you have determined that some subjects, who entered the judiciary at thirty-two-three years old, do not have the opportunity to mature retirement time? There were amendments that corrected the rule not in negative terms or in other words than the verb renziano, but in terms the justification of which was recognized by the Minister of Justice himself in an interview. You know better than I do that, after voting for confidence in this House, at your request, in order not to make any changes to that retirement period that you indicated, we saw, on the following Monday, on television, the President of the National Association of Judges come down from Palazzo Chigi and say that the President of the Council had guaranteed a temporary worth of seventy-two years. By believing and relying on the words of the President of the Council of Ministers, we have identified - not only us, but also the Senators of the Democratic Party - short periods of suspension of those norms. The Minister of Justice himself said, at a meeting with the National Judicial Association, that perhaps the reform of the criminal trial in which these rules were included had been identified. But do you realize that the question is not where to put these rules? In fact, a possible delay means no more or less what is happening: have you seen what the statistics are after your goddamn reform? What did he bring? Have the process times increased or decreased? In the face of this, I have to ask: who must I speak to, Secretary, about a matter of competence, about a written error, as regards your amendment, and about not having understood the need to intervene as a matter of urgency also with regard to the examination of the lawyer? What does that mean? You have reduced the extension to one year, which means that next year we will make another extension, but we cannot get used to our young people having an annual extension and not being able to plan their preparation and their way of dealing with the studies in order to pass the exam as a lawyer, which is an exam and not a competition. Mr Secretary, knowing and appreciating you, I really hope that you will have the strength and the ability to impose yourself so that, at the time when confidence should be placed, you will first have two hours of discussion on these amendments, so that, if necessary, you can correct them by government intervention and include them in the text on which you are going to put your trust. I hope you have the strength, the will and the ability to do so, because that would mean doing something for our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u23	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u24	Mr President, Senator Collina, the rapporteur, said in his report that milleproroghe is an opportunity to take stock of public policies and that is absolutely true. Allow me to take this opportunity to thank Senator Collina, Undersecretary Pizzetti and the Commission all for a very complicated work, which also concerns some subjects very close to health and which the Health Commission has, almost unanimously, signed in an amendment, as I will say, on the Higher Institute of Health with regard to the extension of animal testing. The regret is that on the subject of innovation in general there is always a real difficulty on the part of the whole Parliament and I believe also of the Government. Being able to focus on innovation undoubtedly involves choices that cannot always lead to unanimity, but moreover, if we want to change this country and modernise it, we have no choice but to move forward in our beliefs for the good of Italian citizens. We come - we all know very well - from public policies that have been protectionist, from public policies that have wasted, from a very high debt and I believe that funding should be directed precisely on that part that can give the most, that can give that boost to the country that the country needs. I come to the first point. In response to the parliamentary questions, he said that he was very satisfied, partially satisfied or completely dissatisfied. Well, more than partially satisfied, we can say in connection with the amendment concerning the extension of the moratorium on animal testing, which has also been mentioned so much in this House. In this regard, Mr President, I may have misunderstood - and in that case I apologise in advance - but I have heard, in Senator Fucksia's speech, the definition of mental deviations. Maybe I'm wrong, but I'll point it out because a little attention to language wouldn't hurt.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u25	We'll check it out, maybe we missed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u26	DE BIASI (PD). Thank you, Mr President, because we are talking about a very important issue which has to do with the future of Italy and many people. It's not just about the people doing research, and look at them being people who aren't indisputable simply in the established interests, as someone would like. Telethon, for example, which is seen by millions of spectators and to which millions of people contribute, certainly cannot be said a profit organization: it is an organization that tries to finance, as far as possible, the research on terrible diseases, that you should try to have and know if there is someone in the house who had them before saying things that are neither in heaven nor on earth. I'm not gonna argue. Everyone has their own opinions, but it must be very clear that there is consistency in the battle. Do we not want the use in animal research, which is limited to certain species, particularly small mice? Fine, but then we don't even want to deracte. 5.30 p.m. (De Biasi follow). Let us be consistent for once. It is not conceivable that we use artifices such as making comparisons with dogs that saved people. That's not what we're talking about. There's no way he's experimenting on any dog. It is clear that we are in bad faith, while we must talk about the merit of the matter. As for xenotraplants, you know that Italy has a more restrictive practice than that of other countries. Isn't xenotransplants a problem? They are a type of transplant that has allowed people, more or less famous, to survive because, for example, a heart valve has been implanted. Of course, it may not interest you, because you may prefer to experiment with man. Maybe that's the problem? Do we have to go back to practices that we really want to forget, like human experimentation? I don't think so. The experimental zooprofilative institute, whether it likes it or not, is accredited to the Ministry of Health and writes very clearly in its report that, with regard to psychoactive substances, the only alternative currently available is the experimentation of the healthy volunteer or of users of substances. The report concludes by saying that, therefore, at today's date, complete replacement of the animal model is not feasible because there are no alternative methods capable of assessing the neurobiological and psychological behavioural effects induced by the intake and administration of a substance. These are people who study. I repeat: these are people who study and do not meet with animalist associations. Secondly, the Experimental Zooprofiling Institute has also given its opinion on xenotraplants, saying that there are currently no alternative methods to this type of experimentation. Surrender! Surrender and together we work to look for alternative methods that, however, at present, are not there. Researchers would be the first to be happy with alternative methods which unfortunately do not exist today. Then there is something new, dear President. A few days ago, the European Commission sent a letter to Italy, recalling the obligation to comply within two months with the adaptation to the European Directive on animal testing. Surrender. There's no other way. We work together. We don't lie to people, we don't move our belly, we keep our heads! We help young researchers to progress in this country! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti]] We extend the premises and ensure that research is better funded and funded, even more transparently. Let's do this battle together. Isn't the three-year extension enough? I, along with those who have signed my amendment (majority and opposition), would have preferred by far an extension of five years because, as you know, a ban and a search have this duration. Who says you can do it in no time knows what you're talking about. Who says that it is only the pharmaceutical industry that is doing research, says a resounding lie, because in this country the basic research is great. Of course, there will also have to be applied research, but why do we have to throw away the valuable work of our universities? Why is that? In the name of some ideas that have no foundation in reality? There is a deep distrust in man and his ethical possibilities to improve, with science and research, the lives of his fellow men and I do not share this. For this reason, I am glad that Europe is intimidating us to adapt and, in the same way, I am glad that there is a three-year extension, in the hope that, in the future, there will also be less shyness on this point by the Government. For goodness sake, as we say in our parts, rather than nothing is better, even if it is not of total satisfaction, however, saying yes and voting for this trust, I also think of the young researchers of Pro-Test, who have gone to the streets; they are very young children who want a future ahead of them, that we cannot deny them for ideological fundamentalisms that have no foundation in reality. The second point, on which I am going to conclude, is a point of extraordinary satisfaction. I want to say that because it is the positive response to an amendment signed by the entire Health Commission. This is a very important amendment: for three years we tried to get it approved, in all possible and imaginable locations, but we had always been told no, this time I appreciate and again thank the Commission and the Government for having given a positive opinion. I am referring to the stabilisation of the precariousness of the Higher Institute of Health. We have 2,500 people working at the Higher Institute of Health, which at present is the reference point of scientific certainty that we have and which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Of these 2,500, 530 were and are precarious, some even fifteen years. We have all had the opportunity to appreciate the work of the Higher Institute of Health: when we have a problem, we call the Higher Institute of Health. We have expressed opinions here with the help of the Higher Institute of Health, when there was the Stamina case, for example, on which I have heard no voice from the animalist world to help and support this battle of civilization that we have conducted in this House, Winning her. Well, now, with this amendment, there will be the possibility of competitions, with the recruitment of 230 people; the others will be stabilized in groups, with the funds of the Higher Institute of Health (this also seems to me a good practice). Now you will say: why the Higher Institute, always health care and nothing else? For the simple reason that the law on occupational responsibility and safety of care, which we voted recently in this House, requires the guidelines of scientific societies to be accredited by the Higher Institute of Health, according to the English model NICE. Now, we are poorer and I am not explaining that structure, however, it is their Higher Institute of Health. In the face of such an important task, it is clear that we must have a stable Institute in its recruitment, because we cannot entrust such a great responsibility to a precarious who is going and coming. Secondly, there are registers; yesterday we also talked about the cancer register. In short, all these records, that of maternal diseases, that of tumors and whatever else, will be in charge of the Higher Institute of Health. The Higher Institute is the one who worked on the ILVA case, for example. It is therefore of such importance that it obviously requires stabilisation. I say this, and I conclude, because there is one very important point: research is not only a matter of business, but it is the flesh and blood of the people who work there, who have held on during these years, who have occupied the Institute - and you see that a busy Institute had never seen it - and why? Because they love their work, they love their Institute, an Institute that was not so well put from the point of view of the accounts and that was healed. So they put themselves in an important and favourable condition for change. These are people who have family, but perhaps they preferred to pull the belt and also a lot, on a noble and intellectual work: noble like all works, but of advanced intellectual character. In other countries, they would have made their bridges of gold, while here they were with low wages and for some time not too certain. It is flesh and blood, because you prefer vocation to research rather than money. This is a very important warning, they are very high-level people. One of these people, a researcher at the Higher Institute of Health in an interview, said a sentence that struck me so much: The glass is half full, we used to see it half empty. All right, let's think! It means that even in an apparently a bit cold measure such as the milleproroghe - forgive me the rapporteur - there can be within humanity, the change and the desire of the country to start again. I say this about the rules on animal testing and I say it about the researchers of the Higher Institute of Health: in Italy we start again with research and the valorization of the abilities of our researchers. President Obama, in his time, brought the United States out of the crisis through research and the same thing the Chancellor Merkel did. I wonder why we have to stay behind these countries, when we could be the first! (17.41) (De Biasi follow). When we put ourselves, we are the first in the world in research and when our researchers go out of our country, they make golden bridges for themselves. Rather than having golden bridges abroad, I prefer that our researchers stay with us, in a plain sometimes a little swampy, but that really can lead to the prairie of innovation and well-being for everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Cattaneo, Bianconi, Giovanardi and Rizzotti]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u27	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken in this debate and who have had the opportunity to go into the most specific aspects of this measure, which is certainly very broad and detailed. As long as my relationship could be, it could not enter into the substance and details, to explain the reasons and describe the split of life of the country that is behind a measure like the milleproroghe. I would therefore like to thank my colleagues who have done some in-depth work, all of whom are the bearers of passionate themes, as we have heard. I believe that with great competence in the Commission we have been able to find some points of fall on the regulations that have been addressed and extended. I would like to make a few clarifications regarding what has been done in the Commission concerning two amendments. Clearly, yesterday's work continued and went on non-stop and therefore some elements were focused only in later times. I am referring to Amendment 9.67, referring to the Stability Act for 2016, which extends a provisional measure which, moreover, the subsequent Budget Act for 2017 has already put into effect, without expiry date, thus already ensuring the aim pursued. Amendment 14.29 provided for similar measures, concerning the same audience as possible beneficiaries, compared to amendment 14.18, already adopted earlier, with respect to which it was partly absorbed and partly improcable, as it was inspired by different application criteria compared to the aforementioned amendment and also posed critical profiles as regards financial coverage, which the reformulation put at the expense of a fund not specifically dedicated to the purpose in question. I once again thank all my colleagues, the Government, Commission officials, the Vice-President of the 1st Commission and the President of the 5th Commission for their work and now we are going to continue with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u29	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u30	Mr President, as you know, the text has had a long time of gestation in the Commission and a number of amendments have been adopted: 96. The decree-law is yet to be sent to the Chamber of Deputies and will expire on the 28th of this month. This is the reason why the Government is willing to put the question of trust in the decree-law. Of course, the bulk of the amendments, which come from almost all the parliamentary groups, requires work on the construction of the maxi amendment which is not completed. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, and the House to give time to the Accounting Office to boil the text of the maxi amendment on which the Minister will then raise the question of trust. I would therefore ask you to suspend the work of this House in order to give us this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u31	What are your predictions? Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I think that at 7 p.m. the text can be submitted to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u34	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we learn from news reports that President Mattarella has been very irritated about the omnibus nature of the measure, as dismissed by the Commission. It is not clear whether this relates to the parliamentary amendment phase or to the measure as it was born, but it would be natural for me to think about the first hypothesis. I would therefore like to understand from the Government whether or not the text of the maxi amendment will be in line with the one proposed by the Commission, because any changes could lead to confirmation of the censorship by the President, of which we learn from the daily newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore" but above all they would require proper consideration before proceeding with the debate on the issue of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u37	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I take note of Senator Pizzetti's words, however, since the maxi amendment is still being written, I call on the Government to consider what is going on outside this House. Outside this House and in all the Italian squares there are citizens who are protesting, in an animated but very democratic way, about the issue of the Bolkestein directive, so we are talking about streetwalkers and taxi drivers. With the measure under consideration we risk in fact sending on the pavement tens if not hundreds of thousands of companies and, consequently, of Italian families. The invitation I make to the government is to take into consideration not so much the protest, but the risk of killing some important sectors of our economy and above all harming people who are working and who have worked a life and who within a few minutes will see the sweat of years and years of work fail. I ask you to put a hand on your heart compared to this one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u40	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I do not want to repeat the right remarks that have been made by my colleagues now, but, when I address the rapporteur and the Government, I must say that in my opinion we all need further clarification. Yesterday, in the Commission, I asked explicitly for clarification on the amendment that is worrying so much, even the operators, and the rapporteur gave a reassuring explanation, ensuring that it would not have at all impacted on the Uber affair, nor on other issues that alarm the whole sector very much, which should for a long time have been the subject of clear and certain rules. I therefore agree with the fact that there is a situation of alarm and that it would be absolutely necessary for precise elements of clarification to be provided on this issue. I asked for assurances, which were given by the rapporteur, that this was simply an extension of the entry into force of the NCC Regulation and that it would not have any kind of impact, given that there were other amendments concerning Uber, and I also ask here, at this point, the Government, and again the rapporteur, to have a clear assurance as to what was actually approved in the Commission. In fact, yesterday we faced the problem of streetwalkers, today the situation of taxis; we cannot leave all these sectors in total uncertainty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u41	Mr President, it is not the Government's intention to change politically in relation to the Commission's choices with the vote on the amendments. This, as you know, is not only not in our will, but is also prevented from us. The intention of the Government, but above all of the General Accounting of the State, is to verify the dynamics of the covers to be inserted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u42	I suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.53 p.m. and resumed at 7.08 p.m.) Colleagues, there is a further request for delay of the times. I therefore suspend the sitting until 8 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.08 p.m. and resumed at 8.03 p.m.) As the Government's amendment has not yet been received and as the timetable for the conclusion of our work has already been reached, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u43	I communicate that the request for urgent resolution has been received, pursuant to Article 77, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, for the bill n. 876, concerning the company Aquedotto Puglia SpA. This resolution will be included in the agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-763.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 16 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
