ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e83	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Jorod Asphjell from 6 June to 9 June to take part in the Parliamentary Conference of the Barent Euro-Arctic Council in Naryan-Mar, Russia by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of the Representative of Inbjørg Amanda Vogskesen on days 6 and 7 June to take part in the OECD Forum in Paris, Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the 1st alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Gunn Elin Flakne, there is an application for exemption from meeting in the Stortinget during the leave of Jorod Asphjell due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e140	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e149	This document promotes ten proposals and suggests that the aim of the aupair scheme is cultural exchange, where a young adult is given the opportunity to learn another language and culture by being included in a family in the host country. Furthermore, the proposers believe that the scheme has expired, because there is much to suggest that this is actually the import of cheap servers, not cultural exchanges, for many of the recipients. By letter of 8 March 2017 to the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Committee asked for an evaluation of the proposal and the opinion of the Council of State is attached. The Committee notes that, in its letter of reply, the Council of State points out that, if the scheme were to be phased out, this could be done relatively quickly. The Committee notes that in its letter of reply, the Council of State does not agree with the need to wind up the scheme, and the Committee also notes that the Council of State does not support the proposals No. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10. The Committee further points out that Norwegian Public Aid in the hearing underlined the importance of strengthening the rights of au pairs. The Committee also notes that at the hearing Norwegian People's Aid states that, after more than four years of experience in operating the aupair centre, they record that au pairs come to Norway exceptionally with cultural exchanges as their main purpose. Finally, the Storting could have taken hold and changed a scheme that has expired and that no longer promotes the purpose it once had. The Aupair system has actually worked well for many years and was in its time a real cultural exchange that benefited young people. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case with the aupair system. And when a system no longer works as intended, or turns out to have very unfortunate sides, one should take action. For most, this scheme is now more visible as an opportunity for cheap domestic labour – childcare, laundry and other work in progress. It has also been shown on several occasions that many au pairs do not have it particularly pleasant during their stay here in Norway, with long working days and little leisure time. It's documented. And what's worse is that some au pairs have been subjected to violence and assault. Since the Right and Advance Party, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, were also able to remove the support of the Aupair Centre, which in practice was perhaps the only place au pairs could get help and support, one should now see the writing on the wall and make sure that the arrangement, as it is today, ceases. That's what I thought it would be possible to get a majority for. It wasn't like that. The Right Party and the Advance Party, with the Christian People's Party and the Left, refuse to give up the order. But as a patch on the wound, to put it that way, it has now become a majority to reintroduce support to an aupair centre. The Workers' Party does not consider it appropriate to strengthen the current system pending winding-up. We believe that today's system needs to be replaced by a new system that has a real cultural content in it. The Workers' Party supports and supports the proposal that the scheme be phased out, that a new proposal should be drawn up for a system providing for real cultural exchanges, that Norway should consider ratifying ILO Convention No. 189 on services at home, and that the government needs to know about today's laws adequately provide opportunities to punish those who abuse the situation of foreigners improperly. But the Labour Party wants the au pair system, as it is today, to be terminated. When we have numbers that show that of the about 7 000 au pairs that have come to Norway in the last five years, 85 pst. from the Philippines, there is a basis for saying that the scheme has become such that young women from poor countries can come to Norway and obtain a residence permit and act as underpaid, partially deprived and easily exploitable labour. This should also have been realized by a large majority. There is no longer any reason why Norway should have a separate scheme for what has become a clean opportunity for the import of very cheap labour at home over time, and if you want such help for childcare and household washing, it is in itself okay, but you get to work and pay under general Norwegian pay and work conditions. I take this up with me the proposals that the Labour Party is behind, and I would like to say briefly that there is also an amendment that SV's representative Karin Andersen will present.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e170	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e175	The intensity of the aupair system is good. It is based on values that keep it going. Young people, even from poorer countries, even though many are from the Philippines — it seemed that there was a problem in itself for the Workers’ Party — are thus given the opportunity to come to Norway and learn about Norwegian culture and social conditions. The system is not without challenges, and we have to make it work in the best possible way. Less than two years ago, on 20 July 2015, the Workers' Party's Sonja Mandt stated the following to Today's Business, when the Senter Party announced a proposal to wind up the scheme: ‘However, as of today, we do not believe that the au pair system should be abolished.’ And on the other hand, ‘The majority of those using the scheme have a successful stay. This system has two sides, and it is the ugly side of social dumping that we have to fight. But it's wrong to cut everyone over a comb." This is what Mandt said. In addition, the Labour Party representative showed that quarantine rules were in place for host families who abuse the scheme through gross infringements and for host families with a member who has been penalised for facts committed against an au pair. There were important measures, but as the Workers' Party said at the time: ‘The rules must have time to work.’ It wasn't just in the Workers' Party newspaper that said this. In an interpellation debate in this room, the Working Party also concluded. What's changed a lot in the last few years isn't so good to say. The working party is crystal clear that they do not want to strengthen today’s system ‘in anticipation of a winding-up’ – as they themselves write. So they're in favour of a clean winding-up of the plan. It is not daily that the Workers' Party is calling for the termination of the Council of Europe Agreement, a joint agreement which applies to all the members of the Council of Europe who have acceded to it. The right is in favour of the intention of the aupair system. Language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family are good. We also believe that the scheme is mutually beneficial for both the host family and young adults travelling to or from Norway — although few are travelling from Norway — to be au pair. Obviously, the rules and principles underlying the scheme are assumed to be followed. And it is by no means acceptable when we see examples of some gross exploitation of the scheme — and therefore of young people who are here under aupair conditions. We record the Council's response letter to the Committee, which sets out the Norwegian legislation today, and how it also protects the au pair. The Council of State also indicates that the UDI reports a significant increase in the number of cases involved in assessing quarantine. The question is whether this shows that the scheme is being abused more than before or whether the legislation is actually working. As the Workers' Party itself has stated, it is important that the legislation has time to work. It is surprising to follow the reasons of the Workers' Party to wind up the entire aupair system. A few years ago, as mentioned, they were concerned about making the new rules work. Does the Workers' Party now feel that they are not working? When you read the setting, you can understand it so that the Workers' Party believes the scheme is working. In the case of misuse of the scheme, write, inter alia, The working party that it is ‘important to stress that this is done by a few’. I note that the Workers' Party wants to explore an alternative to the Council of Europe agreement on au pair, but I find it difficult to see where the Workers' Party's reverse operation on the issue comes from, when they now want to terminate the whole agreement and wind up the scheme. The aupair system, as I said, is not without defects. Abuse shall be eliminated. But for most au pairs and host families, this is a mutually positive system that allows young people from often disadvantaged parts of the world to come to Norway and learn about people and social relationships here. We think it is good that Norway continues to open up this possibility, and it would be a pity if we closed this door to Norway for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e210	The Progress Party believes that the intentions of the AUPAR system on language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family are good. We believe that the arrangement is mutual both for host families and for the young adults who travel, either to or from Norway, to be au pair, as long as the rules and principles underlying the arrangement are followed. We have recorded that in the last few years there have been several cases where the scheme has been abused. This takes us most seriously, and we therefore look forward to the government further following the requirements of the Sundvolden Declaration to continue the work against social dumping. For us, it is important that young people from poorer countries also have the opportunity to come to Norway to learn about Norwegian culture and social conditions. Instead of abolishing the aupair arrangements, as many in the Committee, inter alia: The members of the Central Party, want to, think of the Progress Party that we should rather ensure that the aupair system is used for what it is supposed to be, simply cultural exchange, and that we continue to work to prevent abuse. It is therefore important that we follow the practice of the scheme, and that we make the necessary adjustments so that the scheme works according to our intention. In this debate, it is important to consider the intention of the scheme, e.g. language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family. I don't think there is any party that thinks it's negative. Nor should we forget that many Nordics are au pairs in other countries to learn about their language and culture. Many Nordics think of this as a positive possibility like those who come to Norway as au pairs. We want Norwegian au pairs to be well cared for in the country to which they come, and we would view it as sad if countries such as the United States or Germany would suddenly ban the scheme. We must prevent au pairs from being subjected to criminal offences, and the au pairs must be protected by a quarantine system by ensuring that a host family is seriously quarantined in the event of a breach of the conditions of residence of au pair. Finally, it is important to note that the purpose of the aupair scheme is cultural exchange where a young adult is given the opportunity to learn a language and another culture by being included in a family. The idea is also that the host family should learn about the culture and home country of the au pair. The system and the intention are good, and we have to make sure that it is not exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e223	The Christian People's Party's position on the aupair system is both consistent and clear: we want to take the arrangement back to the cultural exchange system it was intended to be. But to get there, there's got to be some changes, and I'm going to take that up now. Because the idea behind the scheme is good, and there is reason to stress that the majority of host families around the country provide both orderly and good conditions for the au pairs, and I want to distance myself from the language used by some actors in this matter, by consistently referring to the scheme as slavery or Western slavery. Thus, everyone who has received an au pair is indirectly accused of contributing to slavery. That is both wrong and unnecessary in the debate. So we know that there have been several examples of gross exploitation of au pairs, and it has to be taken very seriously. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the protection of au pairs must be strengthened. The Christian People's Party also believes that it is in place with a comprehensive review of the aupair system with a view to creating a system that takes care of the original idea of cultural exchange. The Christian People's Party will support the proposal to tighten the quarantine rules so that host families, such as brutally or repeatedly break laws to protect au pairs, may lose the right to have au pair forever. The Christian People's Party sees no need to change the intervals of quarantine, but believes that if the seriousness of the breach warrants the longer quarantine than five years, the family should be excluded from the life-time arrangement. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party will support the proposal for penalties for the exploitation of au pairs and demands for police clearance and new rules that ensure that families with persons convicted of criminal offences against au pairs never receive an au pair. In addition, we support the proposal that the residence permit be linked to the au pair itself and not to the host family, because it is important to ensure that the residence permit is not used as a means of pressurising the au pair. In addition, we will vote to secure operational resources for the aupair centre. It was in the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party for this year, and we are happy that it now has a majority. Aupair Centre is an important lowthreshold service that supports au pairs with information, concrete help and guidance. What will happen if the aupair system is shut down is uncertain. If we look at European countries that have abandoned the scheme, for example: England, we see that the result is that Filipino women are replaced by European women. In England, the number of au pairs from Europe is increasing, and it poses major challenges, for these women work in so-called aupair positions, but they are in a non-regulated arrangement without agencies that uphold their rights. The Christian People's Party believes that there are good reasons why the rules of the Labour Code of the Working Environment Act are being incorporated into the au pairs legislation at the time when the au pairs are working. Here it may be useful to look at the experience of the scheme in Sweden. On the other hand, we do not want to transform the system into a pure labour immigration system for unskilled workers. Summarized, the Christian People's Party hopes that today there will be a majority to strengthen the legal protection of au pairs. The Christian People's Party also believes that there is a need for a review aimed at achieving a more real cultural exchange system. After all, the majority of those who want to put an end to the scheme, which is proposed here today, are proposing the establishment of a more effective cultural exchange system. Yes, it remains to be seen whether there will be a different and better result. It may be that we end up with a system that is the sort of aupair system that was actually meant to be. On that basis, I am promoting the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e244	The representative Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e249	The aim of the AUPairsystem is cultural exchange, and in my view this worked well for many years. It is a system where young people are given the opportunity to visit Norway, live with a host family and learn the Norwegian language and culture. We all agree that cultural exchanges are positive for both the host family and the individual au pair. As I said, this worked well for many years, and for some people it works well today as well, but unfortunately it turns out that it applies less and less. The size has also previously tried to tighten the legislation, but it does not seem to have worked. However, experience suggests that the scheme does not work today according to its intention. There is good reason to ask questions as to whether this scheme has expired. It should not be the case that young girls — yes, most girls — who come to Norway have to spend most of their time caring for children, washing and cleaning and making a living for the host family. They will contribute to easier housework for a few hours a day – not as we see today, where many of the work requirements we hear are pure slave contracts. For example, we hear. that they should: wash the toilet bowl by hand as far down as possible Keep the house of the children clean and tidy at all times keep the garage clean wash all windows change on all beds be responsible for small children almost 24/7 We just can't keep doing this. Unfortunately, such demands await part of the au pairs when they arrive in Norway and are intended to live with a host family, even if they are contrary to the legislation. We can no longer defend our exploitation of young, foreign women. Unhappily developing the use of the aupair system means that it has to be phased out. They are in a vulnerable situation and are forced to work long days, and we cannot end up with Norway tolerating this injustice. Often these young women come from difficult conditions in their home country, and for some of them, the choice is between accepting the conditions and the requirements of the host family or being sent home again. And then they really don't have a choice. Norwegian People's Aid and the Trade Union have been running the Au Pair Center since 2012. Unfortunately, the Centre was laid down with the government and the blessing of the Cooperation Party. Norwegian People's Aid, which has run the Au Pair Center, tells us that their experience after more than four years of operation is that au pairs are exceptionally coming to Norway with cultural exchange as their main goal. It is also rare that host families have cultural exchanges as motives when they want an au pair. There is, in our opinion, sufficient evidence to indicate that it would be more appropriate to wind up the current system, and we therefore support that proposal. That being said, the Centre Party believes that cultural exchange programmes are initially good measures that give young people the opportunity to travel to other countries to learn new languages and cultures. We want a real cultural exchange programme and not one that actually imports cheap labour from developing countries. We are therefore promoting, together with the Workers' Party, proposals to replace today's system with a genuine cultural exchange system. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that we are very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party has now turned around and will support the restoration of the aupair centre. This is incredibly important to safeguard the safety of these girls, girls who are in a very vulnerable situation. In conclusion, I would like to say that when it now appears that there will not be a majority to wind up the scheme, the Central Party will subsidize the proposals that we believe can help to dissipate unprofessional host families, who only intend to exploit the aupair system to obtain cheap labour, and proposals that we believe can improve the situation of the au pairs in this country. We will therefore vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals. 5, 6, 9, 10 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e287	For many is a year that au pair a year off and an opportunity to travel and experience something new. For families, it is enriching for both parents and children to have an additional family member with a different language and a different cultural background. However, the scheme also involves working but not more than 30 hours a week. Natural contributions are delivery and pick-up in kindergarten and school and would like a little light housework. The AUPAR system's intentions of language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family are good. The scheme is based on values that ensure that the scheme remains in place. The scheme has also provided training to Norwegian young people in other countries and cultures as well as in languages. However, abuse of the scheme must be seriously addressed. It is not acceptable that au pairs work more than they should, that they are offered poorer housing conditions, and that they are treated poorly by the family. Au pairs shall contribute to the household but shall not be a household helper. The left supports several of the proposals dealing with stricter penalties for abuse, and we would like to discuss other measures to ensure that the intentions of the scheme are met even better. However, the removal of the scheme affects all au pairs and families. We do not think that is the basis for this. The fact that many au pairs are Filipino cannot in itself provide a basis for establishing that the whole scheme is being abused. It's an insult to both the au pairs and, not least, the families. Families and au pairs which follow the rules and principles underlying the scheme should not be penalised by the removal of the scheme. Then it is better to look at different elements of the scheme. The left believes that abuse should be sanctioned. We support several of the proposals dealing with stricter responses to families who abuse the system and a stricter protection for the au pairs. We also believe that it is important that there is an offer of assistance for au pairs that are being exploited or in a difficult situation. The work done at the Au Pair Center should therefore be continued. The Left prioritises the continuation of the support in its alternative budget for this year and considers it important that the offer remains. Au pairs who experience difficulties must have a place to seek both advice and guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e298	SV has taken the initiative in this proposal because the experience is that the aupair scheme in Norway has gone from being a cultural exchange to a purely domestic aid scheme. Women, poor women from poor countries, are admitted to the richest families in Norway to be underpaid domestic help. We record that there is no majority to wind up the scheme, and that's why all the parties should be involved in strengthening it until it is terminated. I note that several parties that are to wind up the scheme are not in favour of all the proposals to strengthen the legal position of au pairs when they are here. It makes me quite upset. The representative of the Right is more concerned with what a representative from the Workers' Party said two years ago, than what the situation is for the au pairs, and goes up and asks: what is actually changed? Yes, I can tell you that. The door to the Help Center is closed – by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left today are participating in the formation of a majority in order for the Help Center to arise again. It is absolutely necessary, it should be done now in revision, it has the responsibility of the Left and the Christian People's Party to do so, and the government should meet it, because in 2016 the Help Center had 1,200 cases. It's not small – there's a lot of things. I need to take you into some of the stories that Focus on the NRK has brought up: it's about Lucia that tells about the host father's sexual exploitation of her already in the car from Gardermoen. It's about Christine telling me that she was responsible for a seven-month-old baby all day and had to do housework. It's about Diana who was sexually abused and had to nurse the host family's baby. It’s about Anna who tells about long working days and who had to be alone with the family while the host family went on vacation. It's about Jane hoping to make some money for her poor family in the Philippines, but where life in Norway became a nightmare with long working days and sexual assault. – They took my cell phone, and I couldn’t talk to anyone else, she says. This is very serious. I wonder if the majority reacts so relaxedly because these are foreign girls being exploited by Norwegian families. It's very serious. The majority here would not be involved in promoting criminal reactions against this – would not even agree that the au pair should have its own residence permit and not be linked to the host family – and the government suggests that the au pair that is exposed to it should not have an assistance centre to go to, but should go to, UDI, which is obliged to withdraw the residence permit. I admit that I'm very upset about this, and I expect all the parties in this room to vote for the proposals that are going to ensure point 1: that the aid centre has to get up again, and point 2: that you have to get sharp penalties against these families. It's not the majority of families who do this, but there's too many, and the abuses that happen to the au pairs are so serious that they have to be stopped. Then I think the majority here have to take over the situation of these au pairs. These are mostly girls who come from poor countries. It's the same for me which country they come from, but when they come here, they have to live in the host family, the residence permit is related to the host family. They are in a inferior position in the family – which is not comparable to anything else. They are not even protected by the Working Environment Act during the hours they work. We know that then it's easy to get into a big mess, and it's also easy to threaten and misguide and push such a person to get a completely wrong perception of what is the reality. If the representatives who have joined the Help Center could be so kind as to talk to the lawyers who have helped these girls, they would understand and hear that here it does not help to refer to a law, etc., here you need legal skills to be able to beat the table and say that it will be legal if you don't tighten up. Here, there is a breach of all the rules of the contracts, until the worst violations occur. Then I'd like to address the amended proposal of the majority that concerns the Help Center. There's a changed wording on I. That proposal was then made on behalf of the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e314	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e319	First, I have to be allowed to say that I am joining Andersen's representative. When you get this kind of enquiry, it's criminal acts and it's an offense, and then the police have to act against this. I think all of them in this hall are just as upset about this kind of situation, which is a direct assault. However, we cannot allow a good and rich offer for young adults to suffer for it, because this is a good offer and it is also shown through surveys. There are also doctoral thesises that show that these are positive solutions. I'm recording that there's no majority to wind up the aupair system. The intention of the scheme, language training and cultural exchange through work and participation in a family, is good, but we are all seeking to get it back to the intention much more. There, the government has worked regularly and thoughtlessly, because this is not the first time this matter is up, to get action done. New measures are also likely to be needed to get the scheme where it actually belongs — as a good programme for young adults who will take advantage of this offer. With regard to the proposal to re-establish financial support for the Aupair Centre, I just recall that the grant was removed in the light of the government's main objectives and priorities within the 2017 overall budget proposal, and the majority of the population joined it. The grant scheme is expensive, especially when considering the number of people using the offer, although there were 1,200 enquiries, and there are different types of enquiries that are currently being handled in other ways. We might be able to communicate much better that there are several doors to open to contact and get assistance in different ways, including. Websites of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs with information and guidance services of the Directorate, etc. But we have to get better at communicating it out. Representatives propose that au pairs be protected by the Working Environment Act. I again show that the purpose of the scheme is cultural exchange. The definition of au pairs by workers means the opening of labour immigration for unskilled workers, and it does not necessarily have to address the unfortunate incidents between them that we experience. However, I mention that according to a case-law, we cannot ignore the fact that, in some specific cases, the work environment law and the housework regulation can actually apply also in the case of au pairs. I also do not support the proposal to attach residence permits to the au pair and not to the host family. I believe it is important that we check whether the conditions for aupair permission are present when au pair changes the host family. This is simply to counteract poor working conditions, such as: may lead to the imposition of quarantine on the host family and to ensure the necessary information. I have a little less faith that a police record will necessarily prevent crime against au pairs. I believe that such a certificate could be a disproportionate interference also in the privacy of the host families. The proposal to penalise the abuse of the situation of non-residents would result in a significant extension of the scope of the Aliens Act. This has to be looked at in a larger context. Today we have rules in the Foreign Affairs Act and the Penal Code that protect au pairs from, among other things. violence, sexual assault and trafficking in human beings. At the moment, I see no need for a change in the law, but it has to be looked at in a larger context. I also register that Stortinget wants it in various ways. The representatives have various proposals to increase the duration of quarantine. I do not support the proposals, but I support the assessments made in Prop. 154 L for 2012–2013 that a host family should have the quarantine length measured according to the severity of the breach of the au pair residence permit in the various cases. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs reports that there is a significant increase in issues relevant to the assessment of the imposition of quarantine. It shows that the introduction of the provision has had an effect in the sense that abuse of the scheme is increasingly being detected. So far it's too early to say something or to conclude whether the plan also has a preventative effect. But we get to hope and believe it. However, I see that the forms of abuse of au pairs that are commonly reported in the media are also reported to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. I, like everyone else, am very concerned about taking the challenges of the aupair system seriously and preventing it from being misused. And I believe that the Storting must look for a solution, possibly through new measures, instead of cancelling the scheme as it exists now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e343	In the attachment, the letter of reply from the Council of State, he writes: ‘We must ensure that the aupair system is used for cultural exchange and prevent abuse. It is therefore important that we follow up on the practice of the scheme and, where appropriate, on the implementation of the scheme. make the necessary adjustments to ensure the optimum functioning of the system.’;» What two-three main adjustments is the Council of State thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e353	In fact, on the question of what measures the government has taken, or will implement, there is a long list: facilitating a faster transition between authorisations; reinforced information work host families shall cover the return of au pairs; adjusted amount of pocket money and language course contribute to better compliance with tax rules limitation of the circle of persons which may become au pair the quarantine system; These are schemes that are in place and that do not work in full today, but we believe and believe that we will see the preventive effects of. There are probably also other arrangements to ensure that this scheme works after the intention. As several representatives today have said, and I share their views, the scheme is not 100 pst. That is why we have a common responsibility to ensure that this system works after the intention, namely cultural exchange and language exchange, because it turns out that the system is actually very positive for the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e384	It's good to realize that these are things that really don't work the way it should. But there has also been a discussion about ILO Convention No. 189. What challenges can the Council of State face by the possible ratification by Norway of the ILO Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e389	I've registered it. Now it is the case that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs actually assesses whether Norway is going to ratify ILO Convention No. 189, which is about this with decent work for workers in private homes, so there we have an assessment going on. ILO Convention No 189 and a related recommendation are intended to improve the working conditions of workers performing work in or for private households. The Convention establishes fundamental rights, and this is something that we in the government are now considering. It belongs to another department, but the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has this in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e394	I am very happy that this matter is up, and that there is such a broad consensus that something should be done. No one is relaxed about this matter. But in the case of the residence permit, we were told during the hearing that some families could use it as a press agent, since it was related to the host family and not to the au pair. This means that the formal status is actually privatised; it is the host family who is to administer the residence permit and not a formal authority, and therefore it is not within an ordinary judicial programme if it should become an appeal etc. Does the Council of State see the problem that the host family has the residence permit, and how seriously does the Council of State see it being used as a means of pressurisation? Should it be, for example, could exclude to the next au pair, that the family then – in lifetime – would not be able to get au pair again?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e403	I understand the proposal there that an au pair will receive a residence permit that allows general access to be au pair in Norway for two years, and I assume that the au pair permit after the proposal will continue to be given on the basis of a specific au pair/host family contract, which is presented in the application for a residence permit. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs will then be able to continue to verify that the conditions attached to the application for a residence permit are present for the first family. The challenges of the proposal arise when the au pair changes the host family, which actually takes place on a large scale. Much of the control is then lost in order to monitor the behaviour of host families towards the au pair and in view of the quarantine to those who abuse the system. It's a challenge in this regard. Lack of control will include, inter alia: cause the au pair to accept bad terms in the standard contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e408	If I understood the Council of State correctly, the aupairs centre was removed for purely economic reasons. The state council believes it was too expensive to operate, and that the enquiries will be handled in other ways – I think especially of UDI. These girls come from completely different cultures than what we have in Norway. They have a completely different relationship with officials from what we have in Norway, a completely different relationship with the police, for example, than what we have in Norway, and I have no faith that these enquiries can be handled by others. UDI they do not dare to visit because they are then afraid that they will be sent. They dare not, as I said, contact the police. We need an instance they actually dare to visit, where they feel safe to tell us how they really do in the host family. Now, fortunately, there's a majority here in the hall to restore the aupair center or a similar arrangement. If we assume that this is included in the revised budget, how quickly is it practicable to put this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e415	That is a budgetary question, and we are in the middle of the debate on the revision, so I shouldn't say anything more about it. The Aupair Centre is a meeting place where host families and au pairs can gather and obtain information on the aupair system, regulatory guidance and legal assistance or legal assistance in the event of any disputes or legal proceedings. For example, they arrange. coffee evenings, «Women can» courses and contribute to practical organisation and financial support in emergency situations. The center will not be closed. Parts of the offer at the centre will fall away, while some of their tasks can be carried out by others. UDI will provide the Centre with information and the purpose of the guidance is to provide information to all parties. If there is uncertainty out there, it is our task, both politically and through the underlying agencies, to ensure that these au pairs feel secure by seeking information from these agencies. Depending on what kind of problems an au pair is facing, in some cases there will be free legal assistance, and in the worst cases, the police are the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e423	Governments are ramming up a number of things the government has done, but the most important thing the government has done is to remove the help, the offer that these girls are willing to go to. These girls have been told that they are being thrown out at the moment they contact the authorities. They're afraid of the authorities, they're afraid of the UDI, they're afraid of everyone, because they've been told they have reason to be. Then they need such a help center. There have been 1,600 enquiries there, and there has been strong legal assistance in many cases that have resolved and that have not come to justice, matters relating to economic conditions, employment, etc. The serious issues of violence are, of course, reported. Now we also heard that it was the main goal of the government to remove a help centre for some of the most vulnerable workers in the country. How can it be possible that this is the main goal of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e430	I do not know where Andersen’s representative gets ‘principal goals’ from, but this actually applied to the budget for 2017, so it was the whole thing – if it was the economy the representative Andersen is thinking about. In 2012, there were 1,215 enquiries. The majority of these enquiries were about to get more information. There I share the concerns of both the representative Andersen and others. If it is the case that young people come to Norway who are afraid or insecure about contact with the departments and institutes that are to assist them in certain situations, it is my job, the task of the representative Andersen, and the task of the authorities to communicate and provide information that makes these people feel safe when they are subjected to abuse, or when their contracts are exploited in the way we have been referred to here. I think that's important, because slave contracts are also used here. So there are reports, doctoral thesis, that show that the au pair scheme is substantially positive for the au pairs, for the host families, for the children of the host families, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e435	The cord shift is over. They speak as follows, with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e442	During the debate, we have heard a lot of words about the intention of the aupair system, but it is not that if the intention is good, then the realities are good. Either the right side should defend today's situation and realities – that poor women come to Norway as underpaid domestic workers, that many work more than agreed, that there is fine little cultural exchange to track for many au pairs, and that violence, threats and abuse are part of the stay of many – or at least one should participate in and evaluate the ILO Convention on Services at home and be involved in and strengthen legal certainty and the security of au pairs. For one thing, standing here and defending the intentions of the scheme – and for all we know of many who have good residence, we know of many families who have positive experiences, and many au pairs who have positive experience in being au pair in Norway – but it is directly unsolvable and very serious not to want to do anything with the realities of the scheme. Because there's one thing we can't get away from, and it's power relationships between au pair and host family: we know that it's poor young people who come and live with rich families. We know that to a large extent there are women, with the gap in power, means and opportunity between sex. We know they don't know the language or the Norwegian community. The family is the code of culture. We know that you live at home, inside people's house, with what it means, and we know that staying is directly related to the family, with the imminent threat it may pose. It's in some very turbulent conditions of power. When, in addition, the right-hand side has the stomach to put down the only support that au pairs have, it's almost so you can suspect the right-hand side to want a system of exchange of unculture. But I don't think so, I think you've just heard the sunshine stories, listened to the friends who have au pair and how nice it is, and heard too little about the ones that are involved, on those who are actually exposed to threats, assaults and forced labor. The SV's clear call today is to listen to the experiences that actually exist, among those who have been, among those who are, and among those who have helped au pairs from the support centre. Because it's not intentions that shape people's lives, it's realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e453	One of the things that has been said by the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV is that they want to wind up the system, instead of improving the system, without knowing what the difference is: they are therefore proposing a new system, and it has to be both different and significantly better than the one we have today. Then I have three questions, which I do not expect answers to today, but which have become hanging again in the hall: What system is this about? And point 2: Is it at the same time to prevent Norwegian youth from participating in the aupair system? And question No. 3: Are these parties also thinking of cancelling this convention with other countries for a good arrangement for some women in poor countries? Finally, I would just like to say that SV also mentioned that the Left and Christian People's Party is responsible for the financing of the aupair centre. I think that is wrong. It's now a huge majority, so it gets the government to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e466	First of all, a brief comment on the Christian People's Party, which said that the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, is proposing a new order: it says in proposal No. 2 that we, as a substitute for the aupair system, will have a new system that gives real cultural exchange, because we don't believe that this is the way it is today. It's that simple. But then, of course, it will have to work on the content of it and on how to put such a system in place in practice. I think that the principles of the various parties have emerged relatively well in the debate. There are different points of view. I chose to ignore the installation of the representative Frank J. Jenssen, but I note that he has weak arguments, and therefore he is currently using his time here in the past. So to the Workers' Party's proposal No. 4, which we believe had given a complete and good investigation in view of a piece of legislation that obviously needs to be tightened up on a number of points: I have registered that there will not be a majority for that proposal, so I now warn that the Workers' Party will subsidize the proposals. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e475	I would like to include the remaining proposals in the vote and inform you that SV will support proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox To the debate and arguments against keeping the support centre: I am very surprised that you don't understand that you need a help center to which you can turn, when we know that those who experience exploitation and abuse are being frightened, and that they don't trust the police, the UDI or the authorities. That's it. Early in the 1970s, I was involved in establishing crisis centres. Why did we do that? Should we not also sit down and argue that these women would have confidence that both the health services, the police and other helpers would help them? No, we knew how saved they were. We knew that we had to have a place where they could come to get help to build up and get the strength they needed in order to raise their own case. They needed protection, and they needed someone to tell them that the police weren't dangerous, and they needed an organization that could help get the police and other agencies to change their mind on this. That's the same thing about this as well. SV does not disagree that all departments should of course work with good information and should accept au pairs if they come and ask for help. Of course! That's the way it is. That's what the government should do – they don't. Unfortunately, with the help of the Left and the Christian People's Party, they cut the money for the Help Centre, which has been an invaluable aid to some of the most vulnerable workers in Norway. Had the system worked as it should, I would have been very happy for it, but it does not. If people want domestic help, it's okay for me and SV, but then you get to hire people, pay them properly and let them stay in their own home, and don't let them depend on having to dance after the employer's pipe to get permission to stay in the country. They must also be allowed to go to their own home when the working day is finished, like the rest of us. It's totally okay, but just do it properly and fairly. If it is to be cultural exchange, it must be cultural exchange. Today, in the Oslo area, solidarity youth, i.e. the youth movement of Norwegian People's Aid, is responsible for this in most cases. The au pairs I've talked to haven't got anything from their host families. So here the majority are patient on behalf of one of the most vulnerable groups working in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e490	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e495	I just want to repeat, because I think it is important that there is no proposal to close an offer, because the support centre exists, but some of the offers that have been given financial support can now be carried out by others. And then we'll find ways to make sure that anyone who wants this kind of contact feels a sense of security to be able to do it, where we give the resources, which are big, both in terms of what goes on in law and what goes on in information – and in language. When the Workers' Party now wants to replace the scheme, I think it is important to be clear what you want to replace it with. Because I interpret the Workers' Party as wanting to have an aupair system, based on culture, language and exchange, and then I see no difference, to get 100 pst. back to the intentions of today's aupair system, is actually the same as the Workers' Party wants a new system. So at least we have a common goal. It's a little unfortunate if you ask the question, are there any positive aspects to the aupair system, or do you abuse all the aupair system? When the media mention host families who grossly abuse the aupair system, it is important to point out that this works very well for the majority. It is atypical that someone is abusing or committing an assault. All of them, most of the families don't treat their au pairs badly, so we have to open up what's bad. So a doctoral thesis shows that the Norwegian similarity idea benefits the au pairs in Norway. Norwegian families are committed to respecting au pairs' employment contract and leisure time. This is the main line of the aupair system in Norway. A surprising finding in this doctoral thesis was that some of the Filipinos who are au pairs in Norway actually come from a prosperous state. And in these families, the aupair system is seen to a greater extent as cultural exchange, or as educational journeys. So the order is perceived by the majority as very good from all sides. Other studies, to which the Evening Post has referred, also show that this scheme is positive. Then we all – in common and cross-political terms – get to implement the measures that are in place, and use them to the maximum, and look for new measures and measures that take away those who are in the process of destroying this positive scheme. They shall be closed, either through quarantine or by losing the possibility of using the scheme at all, as the Christian People's Party suggests, or by means of tougher criminal reactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e508	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e513	Yes, it is precisely the proposals to which the Council of State was now up and referred, to which we shall vote today, and to which the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV are behind, and to which also the Central Party and the Workers' Party have joined – at least for some of the proposals – now. But they therefore urge the Council of State that we vote against, and then he goes up to the pulpit and says that these are good suggestions that we should have. I'm recording that three million. The main objective of the government’s balancing of its budget is to provide an assistance centre for the most vulnerable workers in Norway. Many of the families who have au pairs have been taxed in the million-dollar class, so the maid will not get any help when they may be subjected to major abuse. It is important to close down those who abuse the scheme, and I record that so far the Council of State has only contributed to the removal of the au pairs help centre, and has not done anything active to increase the penalties for those who violate the rules of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e523	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e539	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e548	First, I would like to thank the proposers for the proposal and for bringing forward those children who are perhaps the weakest in society. Prisoning or so-called detention at the Transdum Foreign Office of the Police is mainly carried out by the forced return of persons without a legal stay in Norway. Most of them are at the Trandum Foreign International for less than 24 hours, but may be imprisoned for a longer period if necessary to have a forced return or to clarify identity. Children are imprisoned — or interned — at Trandum with their parents. The division of parents is considered to be an extra load. Is it enough to defend that children's families are locked into the cells of Trandum? For some children, this isn't about dramatic hours, it's about days and weeks. Can we defend that this is happening? A recent judgment by law enforcement, which is not legally enforceable, can have a major impact on the practice that has so far taken place in the prison of families with children pending their return. The prison that had been carried out was considered by the Lawyers' Rights to have been an infringement of the Constitution, the EMC and the Children's Convention. I am pleased that a Joint Committee agrees that the Transdum Foreign Internet is not well suited for the accommodation of children, and that there is a need to look at alternatives. But I am disappointed that the majority does not follow that recognition with action. An overall committee indicates that the Children’s Ombudsman Anne Lindboe has called for a new regime for the use of coercion against children to be sent out of the country. The Committee further points out that the Ombudsman has also pointed out that Trandum appears to be a prison and is unsuitable for children, cf. the report of 8 December 2015. This is not enough to influence the majority, obviously. I note that it refers to legislative proposals to be dealt with in Stortingen for the autumn, but the legislative proposals are not about alternatives to imprisonment. They're about clarification within today's system. The minority does not want to imprison children, neither children with their parents, nor lone minors – children who have come here alone and who are imprisoned alone before they are sent out. We want us to start an investigation of alternatives to child imprisonment, such as bail or electronic footlinks, and there are even more alternatives. So why isn't it willing to look at this? Fear Barna and NOAS launched last week’s report ‘I haven’t done anything wrong — children and parents’ experiences of forced return’. They have interviewed eight families who were forced to return in 2014 and 2015 and have found that the experience of repatriation has long-standing consequences for the children. The kids can't forget what's happened. They struggle with sleep problems, concentration problems, fear of the police, and changes in behavior. Should we not then see if we can carry out the return of families with children in another way? The left believes it is high time, and I am therefore promoting three proposals on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e567	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e572	I thank you for the review. We refer to the comments of an overall committee, which points out some challenges in terms of how this is happening today: that the Trandum International for Foreign Affairs is ill-suited for the internment of children, that there is a need to look at alternatives, and that less intervention should be taken into account. The Committee also suggests that the Children’s Ombudsman has called for a new regime and that the Civil Ombudsman points to something of the same nature. The Workers' Party also refers to the comment on the apprehension and detention of children, i.e. about Prop. 126 L for 2016-2017, and we will ensure that the proposals that are there are thoroughly addressed. The proposition came well in overtime to the Storting, so it won't be dealt with now. But it gives us better time to do a real and thorough job, because that's what's needed. It also shows the report to which the rapporteur referred, as NOAS and Redd Barna have come a few days ago. We have to look at this carefully, and the Labour Party is going to do it when we're going to go to Prop. 126 L for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e581	Hunger, wars, and the reality that today there are a number of oppressive regimes, make families flee. The personal tragedies are not diminished by the involvement of children, and many of the refugees have an unrealistic expectation of how easy it is to obtain a residence permit in the country to which they are travelling. For the recipient countries, refugee flows create many dilemmas. The management of children and families with children who have been rejected and are therefore to be transported quickly is one of them. The government has worked hard on the issue and has through Prop. 126 L for 2016-2017 submitted to the Stortinget a proposal for a new and better management of arrest and detention, including: by children. Let me say in the best possible sense that it is good, and not surprising, that representatives from SV are committed to giving children to be transported, predictable and acceptable conditions in the short time they are in our country. But it is surprising that SV, together with the majority of the municipal committee, did not agree with the government parties in order to deal with the proposition that is already in the Stortinget before the Stortinget split up. At that time, Stortinget and SV would now have been able to implement a comprehensive treatment of important changes in the Foreign Affairs Act. For the Right, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Centre, it has been natural to see this Document 8 in connection with this bill, where alternatives to detention – and also the issues raised by the rapporteur – have been discussed. However, let me now draw up some of the elements of the deferred proposition that are precisely aimed at strengthening children's rights. The proposed provisions clarify that infringement may take place only if specifically required. Furthermore, it provides that inclusion for ID clearance should only be possible in exceptional situations where the action is absolutely necessary as a last resort to ensure identity control, and that detention for outsourcing should only take place where it is absolutely essential as the last resort to carry out the outing. The legal basis for the detention of persons under arrest and detention has been thoroughly discussed. While the rules of the Foreign Affairs Act, in combination with the Criminal Procedures Act, are well in line with the requirements of the Children's Convention, there is a clear need for better coordination of current rules. A central point in this context is the special involvement of minors and, where appropriate, their internment with parents, without any further regulation at present. Important proposals to this effect in the proposal are: The needs of children shall be heavily weighted. Internment of families with children shall be limited to three days, with a possibility of three new days, and in very specific situations slightly more than this – a clear tightening of the current situation. It is proposed to establish a family reception at Trandum. The Government is concerned that those entitled and entitled to protection should receive it. It is also concerned that those who have been refused their asylum application should be returned promptly and preferably through an assisted exit. If we don't succeed in fast returns, we will get more new things with long-term families of children, and this is a situation we don't want to experience. For the government, it is an objective that the smallest possible child should experience being interned, but, where necessary, it should be done in a sound manner. The proposal submitted aims to achieve both objectives and will therefore respond to some of the proposals put forward by the proposers in this case. So we're looking forward to discussing Prop. 126 L, unfortunately it's only until the autumn – it wasn't up to us to do it before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e617	I hear from those who see it a little paradoxical that we are now discussing what we are going to do for people who are not going to be in Norway and where they are going to be. But Norwegian refugee policy is among other things. based on the 1951 Refugee Convention, and in accordance with it, refugees shall apply for protection, the application shall be dealt with in accordance with certain given rules, and it shall be decided – and those who are refused are therefore not entitled to stay in Norway and are to be transported out. Then we agree that the international nightclub at Trandum is not suitable for children. However, to a certain extent it is unfortunately necessary to apprehend and internal persons who have been finally rejected and who are to be transported. If it's not allowed to internalize children, we can't internalize their parents either. Then we end up in a situation where foreigners who have been finally rejected in all instances, and who are by definition illegally present in Norway, still have full freedom of movement throughout the Kingdom. We can't have it like that. The government gave its opinion in April. 126 L, which has already been mentioned. I do not intend to anticipate the events since it is not to be treated until the next majority period. It could have been a great advantage to have it treated already now, before the summer, so that the government could have started working on a new scheme. However, the proposal clarifies that intervention may take place if it is specifically required, and the proposition also clarifies that in order to ensure identity control and deportation, it must be a last resort. But current practice, since we do not get any further than this on this occasion, will have to be continued until the Great Britain has completed the proposition once during the fall and a new scheme has come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e628	First of all, I would like to say that I can understand those who want to deal with the proposals that are being put forward in the proposal for a representative, in connection with Prop. 126 L for 2016-2017 on amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. There may be good reasons for getting an overall assessment of these issues, but at the same time it is important for the Christian People's Party to find out that now is the time to improve the treatment of children in exile here in the country. As long as children are Norway, they should be treated properly — whether they are going out or going to be. There is an urgent need to change the practice of child imprisonment. I am a little surprised because in conversations and in meetings with the Council of State in these four years I have raised this question and been assured that the treatment of children takes place in the best way possible, and that unnecessary imprisonment does not happen. That is why we wonder when we were able to read in the evening post last night that the state had been convicted in Borgarting of a lawman's right to violate human rights, the Constitution and the Children's Convention in connection with the imprisonment of a family with four children at Trandum. Although the judgment is not yet enforceable, it clearly shows the need for a more humane practice in which children are involved. The Children’s Ombudsman has long required a new practice. The civil officer calls Trandum unfit for children. The European Court of Human Rights has established in five judgments of principle that this type of imprisonment of children is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and the prohibition of torture and other inhuman or degrading treatment. Therefore, Norway should change the practice of child imprisonment — as simple as that. Vulnerable children do not belong behind the barbed wire fences at Trandum. I have been to Trandum, and I want to praise the staff who work there, who do their best to make this go in the most gentle way possible, but – I have worked with children for 40 years – it is quick to see that this is not a suitable place for children. The Christian People's Party therefore has a clear stance on child imprisonment: it should not happen. There is a minimum requirement for detention as a last resort. As the Council of State Sandberg said, it is sometimes necessary to secure people in detention, but then an attempt must be made to find alternatives and possibly for as short a period as possible. I ask the Council of State to ensure that this happens now and that the scheme is improved. We're impatient about that, and we're always going to be on the verge of treating children with dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e639	I want to refer to Prop. 126 L, Changes in the Foreign Affairs Act [[compulsives, etc.]] I note that the proposers wish to remove the access to the prison of children and lone minor asylum seekers to be transported before this proposition has been addressed. Prisoning children and children’s families at Trandum has been criticised by several teams – NOAS, Save Children, Children’s Ombudsman, etc. In December 2015, the Ombudsman presented a report in connection with a visit to Trandum. The report points out that Trandum does not appear to be a suitable place for children. The school’s own reports show that young people are subject to strong impressions from adults in a serious life situation. The boarding school has also had some events, including major riots. It has resulted in self-damage, attempted suicide, the destruction of furniture and the use of power. According to the report, this is not a satisfactory psychosocial environment for young people. The centre party agrees with the proposers that Trandum appears to be a very small suitable place of residence for young people, and sees the need to find alternative solutions. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has announced that there will be a separate family unit outside Trandum that has a more civil character, and that it will come by the end of the year. I hope it's in place as soon as possible. This week, the state was convicted of human rights violations in a case involving an Afghan family of four kids who were interned at Trandum for over 20 days. Civilisation law concluded that this detention was contrary to the Constitution, to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to the Convention on Human Rights. The judgment stressed the urgent need for the detention of young people under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Three weeks at Trandum for kids is totally unacceptable in my view. This case illustrates well that it is demanding, but we must strive for a system that is sound in terms of children's rights, while ensuring the effective transport of those who are refused. Internment of young people should be an absolute last resort, and consideration for the child must weigh heavily. In order for Norway to succeed in an effective and fair asylum policy, we depend on the functioning of the return policy as well. This means that those who, after legal proceedings, are refused their application and who are given the obligation to leave have to leave the country. However, where decisions are actively countered, there must be a legal basis allowing for the carrying out of transport even in the case of families with children. That's why the Center Party is skeptical about removing access to the detention of kids completely. The imprisonment of children must, as I said, be an absolute last resort. As a result, the Centre Party is in favour of finding alternative solutions for the detention of children in the context of transportation. I therefore draw attention to the fact that, in the event of an incurrency, the centre party does not support proposal No. 1 and will notify that of course we will vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e658	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e663	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good presentation of the case. I think I have to start with the fact that children are never responsible for what their parents do, nor are the children of the family who have applied for asylum and have been refused. Children are not responsible for what their parents do if they violate Norwegian law. On the other hand, the Norwegian authorities and the government are responsible for safeguarding the interests of these children, regardless of what the parents had to do, and this is the case. The Convention on the Rights of the Child confers upon children their own rights, which are the responsibility of the authorities, and that is the principal background for this. All the reports it has been referred to – including in the case that has now been convicted, but not legally enforceable in the courts – show that Norway’s system is not in line with human rights or with our obligations towards these children. That some of these things may be difficult, there is no doubt about it. But I am also in no doubt that we now have a government that places a lot of emphasis on being hard in the grievances, which has also cut in money for voluntary return and increased coercion, and which argues that having applied for asylum and having been refused is a very serious crime. There is some background to the fact that so many children have been interned on Trandum, even for a long time. Other countries have other arrangements for this, so it goes. And it has a little bit to do with what you consider to be the most serious thing that can happen in the world. SV believes that those who have been refused asylum in Norway should return. That is why we are proposing more money for voluntary returns and for work on what is done through non-governmental organisations and at receptions, a very important work. There is a much more gentle process, especially for families with children, and there is no honor in cutting this work that is so important and that could motivate some of these parents to choose a different solution when they are not going to be in Norway anyway. I note that the government has submitted a proposition that contains some points to which SV is likely to be positive. But that proposition was made so late and in a period of so many heavy things, that we found that we could not take responsibility for handling it in a serious and good enough way in the short term and with the workload that was. We are sorry about that, because we really wanted this case to have come at a time when it was possible to deal with it. But the proposals that SV has made and that have now received support from the Christian People's Party and the Left, and proposal No. 1, from the Center Party, are principal proposals that should be able to bring together broad support in the Storting today, and which could be a backbone for the treatment you should have of the government's proposition for the next majorization period. It is a difficult area because it is legally complicated, and therefore it is necessary for the Storting to have time to deal with such matters, also because we know that the government's attitude to this has not been very forward-looking in terms of caring for children in families seeking asylum. Several have been up and referred to the legislation that says that it must be imperative for a child to be imprisoned. It is difficult to imagine that alternatives to prison in Trandum should not be available, and it is possible that such a family centre now planned is a step in the right direction. However, other instruments such as increased voluntary return efforts and other means of controlling where families or the persons concerned are located need to be used — as other countries do, and as Norway should be a civilised country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e684	It would have been tempting to comment on Andersen's claims that this government has done nothing for children I think history will show the opposite. There has been a strong focus on, and many measures to meet, the needs of children. I look forward to the Stortinget's next six months considering the proposals made by the government on 28 April in Prop. 126 L for 2016-2017, including: improving the rules on the detention of children is central. In this context, it will be possible to explore the alternatives and measures already used in practice and to discuss the options for new actions that various actors in the field have highlighted in the debate. I point out that the Ministry has summarised its assessments in Chapter 12 of the Proposition, where, among other things, the Ministry. discusses the real-life orientation of asylum seekers' families, so that they can adjust to self-organised or assisted return in the event of a refusal. Reporting obligations and impositions, such as a specific place of residence, seizure of travel documents, insurance, guarantee lists, electronic control, detention of only one parent instead of the incarceration of an entire family are some examples. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority in the Committee that the discussion on such alternative measures should not be discussed and discussed separately, but seen in the context of the Committee reviewing the proposals in the proposal to strengthen the legal certainty of children. An overall approach is very important here. With regard to the minority's proposal to remove all access to the detention of children in the context of transportation, I would like to point out that the proposed law provides a clear description of why this is a bad idea. A prerequisite for a successful asylum policy is that we succeed in effective returns by those who are being rejected. In particular, in the case of children, it is important that any rejection decisions are followed up in the implementation of the return as early as possible and as soon as possible in order to avoid the problem of long-term children, and I believe that there is a broad political consensus on this. In the case of single minors, which are also specifically affected by the proposal for a representative, it appears that they are rarely required to leave, and very rarely that they are subject to enforcement. However, it is a practical problem for police officers to state that they are under 18 years of age in order to avoid arrest and detention. An absolute ban on arrest and detention would put the police in a very difficult situation, especially in cases where there is doubt about age. This too is therefore a problem which needs to be discussed more fully in the context of the Committee's consideration of Prop. 126 L. It refers to a judgment given in the main proceedings. It's not legal, so I don't want to go into it very much, but it's important to make it clear that it comes from the judgment that a short-term prisoner wouldn't be in violation of the Constitution and the EMK. With regard to the establishment of a new family unit at Trandum, the Police Directorate has reported that the Foreign Affairs Unit and the Police Joint Service have started their work. Modules are planned to be installed on a site not close to today's Trandum facilities. Startup is currently set to 1 September. Back to Prop. 126 L, where the themes of the draft representative are discussed in various chapters: in Chapter 12 Alternatives to detention, in Chapter 7.7.1 Should there still be access to apprehending and internalisation of children?, in Chapter 7.7.9, in particular for single minors. And so on. I agree with those who say that it is now important to have an overall procedure, and that the Stortinget and the Committee will have a good time for discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e708	The state was recently convicted in Borgarting law after an Afghan family with four kids spent a whole 20 days on Trandum. The government itself has acknowledged that Trandum is not suitable for young people. Fortunately, we are now working on getting a different unit on the outside. I hope the Council of State agrees with me that for kids there are three weeks at Trandum totally unacceptable. Can the Council of State confirm that he finds it unacceptable to keep children at Trandum for so long, and can the Council of State say something about what measures he will take to prevent this from happening again?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e713	As I said in my post, I will refrain from commenting on the judgment as it is not yet enforceable. As I also said, short-term detention in this case would not have been a violation of either the Constitution or the EMK. But everyone understands – and I think it is a cross-political consensus – that internalising children for weeks is unacceptable. But then I see that the discussion is about to remove the possibility of detention. It is then important to state that Norway is almost presented by some politicians as being very cynical and cold in this case, but that strong warnings have been issued internationally against removing the possibility of internalising in extreme situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e718	Then I would ask the Council of State to indicate what he means by short-term detention. What period of time does he think might come under that term? So a question about the new family unit to be established outside Trandum: I hope the Council of State can confirm that it will be a facility with a more civil character, which does not have a prison term, and which is more marked by being a home for a young person than a prison. Does the Council of State think that we should continue to strive to have only shorter detentions for families with children, despite the fact that we are putting that unit in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e725	I think I can confirm that this is not going to be prison-like. That's exactly why we're building such modules, to avoid situations that are referred to here. I also want to show that on pages 56 and 57 of Prop. 126 L, which is a lot of talk about, says a lot about what is acceptable and unacceptable in terms of accommodation. Almost all comparable countries allow some form of detention of children’s families in order to carry out deportation. For example, Danish provides the right opportunity for detention. The same applies to Swedish law, which has access to 72 plus 72 hours of detention. According to English law, detention can take place for a maximum of one week. Belgium has for several years abolished access to detention, but is now reintroducing the rules on detention following major avoidance problems because it has not just had the option of detention. So, in an overall situation of asylum structure, it is important to maintain the possibility of detention.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e732	I think I'll start by giving the council some praise. It is the first minister, at least in this government, who has been responsible for the field that has improved the situation of lone minor asylum seekers. That's what I want to say. I think it's not good enough, but it's going in a positive direction. There have been many cuts and contractions in this area. It's been a very hard-handed return policy. Everyone agrees that return policy is important. However, the Council of State must have a clear and fundamental view of whether the obligations of the State under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Human Rights and the Law on the Rights of the Child are above the government's desire to have a very hard-handed return policy towards asylum seekers. Because here it's about human rights that children have. Then it must be more important to comply with the obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e737	Back to the bill – Prop. 126 L – which you always come back to. Significant emphasis has been placed on the legal certainty of children, strengthening the legal certainty of children. In particular, it is clarified that children should be considered as an independent party in matters relating to the detention of families with children and that there should be a requirement for a knowledge of detention, content of information, etc. There is a significant strengthening of the legal certainty of children. I am absolutely sure that Andersen's representative is fully in line. Then I registered that the representative Andersen said that the Norwegian system is not in line with conventions and regulations. It's a statement that doesn't stand. The laws and regulations of Norway are in line with constitutions and agreements. EMD confirms, inter alia: by a number of judges in France last summer, that very short-term detention in organised family departments will not in itself constitute a violation of the Convention. So it's opening up for internment, without violating any laws. This is the case in Norway. That's why we have no breach of international agreements and conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e744	Is it to understand, then, that the Council of State believes that the matters in which children have been in Trandum for many weeks are within the obligations of Norway under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Human Rights? It's a fact that it happens. It must mean, of course, that the legislation on which Norway relies opens up a practice that could lead to such infringements.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e749	Again to the judgment: I state that a short-term detention – it also says the judgment – is not a breach, either on the Constitution or on the EMK. When I refer to France, it is because some representatives and parties want to eliminate the possibility of detention. Therefore, I point out that Norway is no different from other countries in this respect. It is important to have the possibility of incarceration, but we should be open and make sure that this kind of incarceration is of such a nature that no kind of child suffers from it. That's exactly what we're doing right now. We provide new and better facilities when children are interned – for a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e756	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e764	I think it is necessary to clarify a little what is contained in these proposals resulting from the committee's voting. In those cases where applicants for asylum — minors or families with minor children — have been finally rejected and where Norwegian authorities consider it a last resort that the persons concerned must be internalised, this means that they must experience a detention. There are then some in this room who believe that it is wrong, who will ban immigration and demand a more humane practice. But none of them have explained what lies in a more humane practice. We have not been given a description of how the proposers want to do this. We have also not received an answer in the committee position. We have not received any answer from those who have spoken here today, nor have we received any answer to it in connection with the judgment in the District Court. That means there are no alternatives outlined. This is a practice that no one is happy about. There is a practice that we have to facilitate, which we have now said up to several times, in very specific cases, as one of the very last resorts. Then, for me at least, it will be completely unexplained what these representatives who will ban immigration put in the words ‘more humane practices’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e771	I think the representative Myhre must have read the position and the proposal very poorly, because both the proposal and the comments state that there are clear alternatives to imprisonment, such as bail and electronic control, and that the International Detention Coalition has identified 250 different alternatives to the imprisonment of children in 60 different European countries. So there's different ways to do it. Everybody's not as good, but there are ways to do this that will be far less stressful for these kids. It's not like they're just being subjected to a traumatic situation there and then. These children have been subjected to severe stress for a long time, perhaps before flight, during flight, during insecure stay here in the country, with a lot of anxiety and fear and nervous parents. Often they also come from countries where you're alive police and authorities, and it doesn't go out of your body in a little while. When adults are scared, the kids get scared. So it's about finding other solutions, and I'm glad that the government is working on some of that. I look forward to it. So there are many other solutions, and they are outlined both in the proposal and in the comments on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e778	The representative Peter N. Myhre has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e783	It calls for more humane practices and points out that there are hundreds of other ways to do so, but none of the proposers have, therefore, wanted to make concrete proposals on something other than some form of incarceration, and will, instead, only ban incarceration. Then that question is just as unanswered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e788	Just like that at the end of the debate – I did refer to it a little bit in a previous post: whoever wants to ban this kind of detention must also listen a little to the international community. On 7 March this year, the European Commission issued a clear recommendation to the Member States not to lay down rules which exclude the possibility for minors to be internalised where strictly necessary as a last resort for the implementation of returns. This is also mentioned in the mentioned Prop. 126 L. So I also think it's important to clarify that there's someone who might be more responsible, and that's the parents. Many of the parents have the key to voluntary return. Many parents put their children in such a situation. I do not think it should be mentioned in such a situation, for many of these violate Norwegian law when they are to be transported out. The closest thing to sabotage is that children suffer in many cases. So I think it's important to place some of the responsibility on parents who put their children in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e795	The representative Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e800	Then it came, and that's what's at the heart of it: children never have responsibility for what their parents do. Administrations have a duty to protect children’s interests and rights regardless of what their parents do about wrong things. We have outlined some possibilities, but we have also asked the government to investigate alternatives to detaining children in the context of transportation. After all, everyone who has the goal of not wanting to be interned must find alternative ways. For most cases it will be possible. If you want people to travel on a voluntary basis, you don't cut the voluntary return programmes, as this government has done. Then you put more money into it and motivate parents to be safe when they are going back with their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e807	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e823	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e832	I'm going to try to make a short summary, almost as the author of the case. The representative of the representative of Mr Rasmus Hansson makes a total of three proposals, and the author points out in the document that all the peoples of the world should be citizens of a state under human rights. The proposer therefore believes that citizenship should not be revoked except in very special situations, where individuals have done damage to the vital interests of the country. The document goes on to point out that there is a great deal of international law to do before you can withdraw citizenship or make someone stateless. Furthermore, the proposer considers that the prohibition of dual citizenship should be lifted. By letter of 22 March 2017 to the Ministry of Justice and Security at Per Sandberg State Council, the Committee asked for an evaluation of the proposal and the opinions of the Council of State are the result of attached letters. The proposer believes that the ban on dual citizenship should be lifted, and the Committee notes that the proposer refers to the internationalisation of Norwegian society, that many Norwegian citizens have a strong relationship with other countries, and that a choice between citizenship represents a dilemma for many with a migrant background and others with a strong relation to several countries. The proposer also highlights barriers to social participation and integration. The Committee refers to the examination of Documents 8:10 S for 2015-2016, where the Stortinget inter alia: the government examined how the general rule of one citizenship turns out in practice in a more globalised everyday life. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Justice and Security informs that the request decision to which it refers is still pending. The Labour Party points out that the issue of the withdrawal of citizenship has been addressed in detail in Document 8:33 S for 2016-2017 The representative's proposal for a court hearing in the event of withdrawal of citizenship and refers to the Committee's proposals and observations in the Innst. 269 S for 2016-2017. I assume that the author himself and others who have minority proposals will explain this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e845	For many years in politics, I have warned against using myself or someone in a close family as an example in a political debate. I shall now make an exception to that principle. But I'm going to be careful to refer to a distant family member, who was born in Brazil by a Brazilian mother, who lives in France and has adoptive parents, one of whom is Norwegian and the other is French. Consequently, the boy has three citizenships: Brazilian, Norwegian and French. There are many countries that allow dual citizenship, and with changing times it may be interesting to consider whether Norway should also allow more than one citizenship. The Government is in the process of doing so, and the examination of Document 8:10 S for 2015–2016 led the Government to investigate how the general rule of one or more citizenships can be reflected in a more globalised everyday life, including the consequences of dual citizenship in terms of responsibilities and other matters. The Progress Party will therefore await the outcome of the government's work on this matter before we take a concrete position on what is in the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e854	As regards the issue of the withdrawal of citizenship, the rules on this issue have recently been assessed and debated in the context of an own proposal by the Green Party, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV. The Christian People's Party went in there to transfer the withdrawal of citizenship to the courts. We also agreed to remove the possibility to deprive children and grandchildren of citizenship because of mistakes committed by parents or grandparents. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there was a majority for these proposals. We also proposed a limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship, but unfortunately it did not get a majority. The Christian People's Party is standing by the assessments we made at the time, and we support today that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the Minutes. With regard to the proposaler's wish to lift the ban on double citizenship, I would like to comment on that. The majority has already asked the government to present an overall assessment of the introduction of dual citizenship. The ministry seems to be working on such an investigation, and they have announced that they will present it to the Storting in the spring. It decreases in time, but we'll see if it comes. It is natural that, in the context of opening up dual citizenship, one looks at all the rules affected by such a conversion, and not just goes in to change a single paragraph. There may be consequences it is important to have an investigation before we go into the matter. The Christian People's Party will therefore await the overall assessment that has been notified before we proceed with that matter. But, in principle, the Christian People's Party supports a change of system, and we support allowing dual citizenship – we have also recently adopted that at our national meeting. So the Christian People's Party will help implement this in the way I have now sketched.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e863	Citizenship shall be high. Many people wait many years for their application to be accepted. Then, too, the threshold for withdrawal must be high, especially in a country where one has no opportunity to have two citizenships and can end up stateless. The issue of withdrawal of citizenship has been addressed in detail in Document 8:33 S for 2016-2017 The representative's proposal for a court hearing in the event of withdrawal of citizenship. Cases relating to withdrawal of citizenship are proposed for transfer to the courts, which the Left considers to be a significant strengthening of legal certainty. The left is a hot supporter of dual citizenship and promoted already in 2015 proposals to open up double citizenship. Norway is following in this area and is the last country in the Nordic region that has not opened up dual citizenship. Countries that we otherwise like to compare with have an opening for dual citizenship. Our order is strange and out of date. The legislation provides the greatest challenges for people with a Norwegian background who have been living abroad for a long time because of work or family start-up. Internationalisation is a strength for Norway, and it has to be easier for the North to travel into the world and come back as full Norwegian citizens. Many families now living in Norway refrain from applying for Norwegian citizenship. For example, an American will never have an opportunity to re-acquire his citizenship at a later date after giving up to become Norwegian. Now it's time to clean this up. The government was asked to investigate the matter more closely, and we are still waiting for an investigation to come to Stortinget. There is a majority of the Grand Duchy for the introduction of dual citizenship. There's no need to wait. Left supports SV's proposal No. 3 – the resolution that was presented today – that the government now has to present a bill opening up to double citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e876	I will first address the proposals No. Two and three. Proposal No. 3 is a corrected version of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It says ‘the possibility of acquiring dual citizenship’, because that is what this case is about — a part of it. SV has been for double citizenship and has worked for a long time, and was the proposer together with Left when the matter came up in Stortinget. There I agree with what the representative of Skkelstad said in his post, and that it is time for this to be done. I have recorded that several parties have also discussed this at their national meetings and come to the same conclusion, that it is not appropriate neither for Norway nor for our citizens that we have such strict rules in this area in a modern world where people are moving. So to this with withdrawal of citizenship, or loss of citizenship. This is a serious matter that we dealt with in connection with Document 8:33 S for 2016-2017, which SV promoted. We are pleased that we were given a majority in these cases as a principle. Then the Green Party has promoted a proposal that goes beyond this. Then I need to refer to NOU 2015:4, which has been developed considering how to view losing citizenship as punishment, because there have been no rules for it in Norway. You have only had cases of loss by providing incorrect information. It is good that there is a NOU in this area, but I think it was a bit alarming that the government, who was opposed to having legal proceedings on incorrect information – in the proposal they sent out at least at the hearing – felt that it was absolutely necessary when one was suspected of having committed acts of terrorism and seriously damaged the empire. Then there was nothing of what you had done before you were 18 to count with, and you would have free legal assistance etc. SV believes that this is right, that there should be a high legal standard in such cases too, but we believe, of course, that there must be at least as high a requirement to withdraw a citizenship because of incorrect information. There must be some reasonableness in relation to how serious a crime seems to have been. Losing citizenship is perhaps one of the most serious things a person can experience, because it is the security and belonging of the world. With regard to the proposal that the Green Party has made, we have promoted a slightly amended proposal there, because we see it as completely impossible to have a majority for something like this over the table here. We also believe that it should be investigated, so that we get a proposal on the table, especially in conjunction with the NOU and the legal work that is now being carried out when individuals damage the vital interests of the state. It may well be that during the process we will also conclude as the Green Party already does now, that this is the only reason to be able to lose a citizenship that has been acquired, because that is what we are talking about. These are the acquired citizenships we're talking about. However, we believe that the relationship with the 1997 Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship and the consequences of changing the rules so that citizenship is revoked only when persons have damaged the vital interests of the country should be investigated. We believe that there is a great reason to investigate it, but it is difficult today to conclude that it is right. It is true that in these cases it must be expected that incorrect information will be clarified during the length of the procedure in order to become a national of a country. There's a lot of rounds on it, and you have to assume that there's such a sure process that in most cases they'll be hatched, the ones who've deliberately cheated. Because that's what the law says today, that it's deliberately cheating to get a response.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e889	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposals No. 2 and 3, to which she referred. Proposal No. So 1 doesn't come to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e894	The debate we have today is part of a healthy roll-back of some very bad results we have had from the government's policy, which has led to people being deprived of citizenship because of very old mistakes, which have led to children and grandchildren of people who have done wrong being thrown out of the country and who have led to other expulsions that are not at all worthy of the state of Norway. The most important thing to say about it in general now is that it's good and reassuring that the Storting takes responsibility and listens to what's going on outside this hall here, that's a recognition that this has been a policy we can't be aware of. The environmental party The basic principle position of the Greens is that a citizen is a national. If you're a citizen, you're a citizen, and you can't make any difference from that. But today we have two kinds of citizens: we have the kind of citizens who can blow up the government quarter and do things that are even much worse, without it getting any significance for their citizenship; they are treated according to the rights and obligations they have because they are citizens. Then we have the second kind of citizen, and that's the kind of citizen that can be thrown out of the country because of more or less serious mistakes committed before them. In the past, we even had citizens who were subject to a rule of inherited sin, which allowed them to be cast out for the sins of their grandparents. We therefore think it important to promote these proposals in order to push this debate forward, and I take note that at least some of the representatives see the value of the debate and that it goes on. Then we believe that there must be proportionality when it comes to taking the citizenship of a person actually occurs. So it's very difficult to imagine a reaction to a person here in the world that's harder than taking citizenship from him. And then the reason why that's going to happen has to be very good. It is good that we went one step further by ensuring that court proceedings of that kind of thing, but it must be made very clear as a basis for that court hearing that it is only in the most extreme cases that people should actually be taken away from a citizenship that has been given, and then, of course, we stress that citizenship should only be granted after very thorough investigations, but once the investigations have been carried out, the State is also obliged for the citizenship that has been granted. Therefore, in our second proposal, we propose a time-limited amnesty in order to be able to correct any incorrect information that may have been provided. We think it'll be a way to clean up the middle situation we're in now, on, and give a right signal that gives people the chance to get right without risking the violent consequences of losing citizenship. This is something that happens and is done in many contexts around the world. So we have a country that is very different from what it was for just 20 and at least 50 years ago, how many of our citizens are either also or have been citizens of other countries, or one way or the other one has one leg in another country. The fact that Norway comes after in the area of dual citizenship is a way of making life easier for people who are anchored in other countries, and it is a way of making Norway a country that has a more seamless association with and contact with countries around us in the world. That is why the Green Party supports the proposals proposed by SV, which are partly adjustments to our proposals, including: what has now been amended to proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e909	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e914	Let me just say first that it is a paradox that the Storting criticizes a government to practice a law that the Storing has adopted. That's what the representative Hansson actually did. But it's the Storting that changes the law, and it's done in a number of areas. I note that the proposer wants to remove the possibility of withdrawing citizenship based on incorrect information and instead introduce a permit for the loss of citizenship for certain criminal offences. The proposer also wishes to change the principle of one citizenship of the Act and introduce a temporary amnesty for persons who have provided incorrect information on their identity to the Norwegian authorities. All these proposals have been or are being discussed in ongoing investigations, and I note that there is no majority in the Committee for any of the proposals. The issues relating to the withdrawal of citizenship have recently been discussed by the Stortinget in the context of representational proposals on judicial proceedings in the event of withdrawal of citizenship. The case was dealt with at Stortinget on 9 May this year, and the majority concluded among others. that there is still the right to withdraw citizenship based on incorrect information but that it is to be done by a court. I would like to stress the importance of the fact that, in the future, there must also be access to recalling citizenship based on incorrect information. The assessment of the conditions of citizenship shall be carried out on the basis of the information provided by the applicant and of the documentation provided. Information provided by the applicant will often be uncontrollable and the background information available may be inadequate and of very uncertain quality. Our system is largely based on trust. The Norwegian authorities are dependent on being able to trust that persons provide correct information when applying for citizenship. When incorrect information is provided, this is a breach of trust. And citizenship given on a false basis can therefore be revoked. That's how I think it should still be. I am therefore opposed to the proposal to remove the residence permit to withdraw Norwegian citizenship based on incorrect information – incorrect information, not only once, but twice or three times. The 1997 Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship provides for access to rules on the loss of citizenship where a person has damaged the vital interests of the country or has voluntarily participated in a foreign military force. Despite the possibility offered by the European Council Convention on Citizenship, in Norway we have no opportunity to deprive persons of citizenship who have been acquired in the right way. Even acts of terrorism do not give rise to the loss of Norwegian citizenship. I believe this is wrong. In some cases, loss of citizenship may be important both in the interests of the general sense of law and in order to ensure the safety of Norway. The Government has therefore been working for a long time to introduce a new legal basis for the loss of citizenship under the National Act. We will shortly promote a proposition on this matter. The issue of whether to provide an Amnesty for previous misinformation has been addressed by the Municipal and Administrative Committee in connection with proposals for representatives on the identity clearance programme for Iraqis in Norway. The majority opposed to providing amnesty, but adopted the request decision 505 of 1 March 2016. The decision requires the government to return to the Storting with a time-limited identity clearance programme for Iraqis refusing to apply for citizenship because of doubts about their identity. I just have to say that this matter is demanding, and that the matter is still pending in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, but we will present the matter as soon as possible. By means of the request decision 525 of 15 March 2016, the government asked the government to investigate how the principle of one citizenship is reflected in a more globalised everyday life. The proposal to amend Section 23 of the National Act so that the Nordics can acquire another citizenship without losing the Norwegian will be affected in the investigation, and the case will be dealt with in the investigation promoted by the Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e943	To this request decision that was taken a long time ago: I understood it so that the Council of State was in on it, but I would like to have a little more precise interim report: When will there be a reply to the Storting on the request decision on double citizenship, and what is, as I understood, as soon as possible? Is it before the sun turns, or is it before it turns again?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e948	One who lives on Senja and is used to darkness time is a little uncertain about when the sun comes and goes! But at least I can say that it has come so far that it has been sent to the ministry. How fast that process is going is a little unclear, but the hope is, of course, to be able to put something forward before Stortinget takes a summer vacation. But that's not a promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e953	The starting point for this debate is to a large extent the extreme consequences for some people that they have made mistakes, or that they have been made wrong – sometimes very long ago. Some of this is addressed, but the underlying issue, namely the disproportionateness of a reaction to the error committed, is a problem issue, and it is, in particular, a problem related to the phenomenon of citizenship, which is a fundamental right for a human being once it has been given it. Does the Council agree that it is problematic that we have been at a level of reaction to misinformation related to citizenship that is so extreme that people are thrown out 17 years after they have made that mistake? It is a type of punishment that very few other crimes in Norway lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e958	Here I can only answer at the general level, for each case is different. In many contexts, there is no false information at first arrival in Norway — it may be incorrect to repeat it. So it could be 17 years or 15 years, from the first day you put your legs on Norwegian soil. Incorrect information may be provided up to the current date. So each case is individual, and as I said in my post also: This is a law and a law that the Stortinget has adopted, and then you might just expect any government to follow up the decisions that the Stortinget has made, and practice according to what is the leaders of the Storinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e963	However, it is also up to any government to change the law – for all governments do so all the time – where they believe it should be improved or changed. There's nothing special about it. I need to know if the Council of State can reflect a little on what is at the heart of the Green Party's proposal, namely that we operate with some kind of a- and b-citizenship – some have citizenship it is not possible to lose, while others have a citizenship that is likely to be lost. In my speech, I was quite clear that I understand the need to be able to deprive citizenship of very serious acts, of terror and attacks on Norway's security. It is a little more difficult to understand why having given the wrong information should be more serious than this. Can the Council of State think a little bit about what it's like to have such a b-citizenship that can be withdrawn, especially in a situation where the government has so far opposed double citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e972	But when you have a law and a regulation, it's to prevent in every context. As I said from the pulpit, we in Norway are extremely concerned about having good trust. Whether it's in relation to underlying agencies, government or big business, it's the trust you build on, and then we also have a code based on it. When you see that someone violates this trust relationship, you also have to have penalties that cut it down, so that it doesn't evolve. It is clear that once correct information has been provided and when correct information is provided to the Norwegian authorities, there is no reason to fear their citizenship. It is only when you provide incorrect information that you can begin to feel insecure about your citizenship. And in the majority of cases, it's actually the case that you give the right information. To favor those who, if any, one, two, three times had to provide incorrect information, in relation to those who do it right, I find it unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e979	That's not what the Council of State says, because there are many who have been affected by the government's priorities for these matters now, who have done nothing wrong. There have been family members who have made mistakes, perhaps generations earlier. So it won't guarantee trust between the authorities and the citizens, when that relationship has been like this until now, and the government hasn't taken any steps to improve it. On the contrary, priority has been given to efforts in this area in such a way that children and grandchildren are also at risk of being affected by this disproportionateness. What I asked the Council of State to reflect a little bit on is whether it's proportionate, this reaction that's being given – because that's important. Everyone is concerned about trust, everyone is concerned about not lying, and you have to do the right thing, but the question is whether the reaction is proportionate to the seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e984	Now a lot of this is left to the courts, and it's going to be interesting to see what practice we get. I expect that the representative Karin Andersen and SV will also get some surprises there, and then perhaps to a much greater extent will go in and control how the courts will take their decisions. I think it's a little interesting: yes, this government is making priorities, and we've done the right priorities, to reveal and send out people who have provided incorrect information to get to stay in Norway, is important. With all due respect to notifying – the legislation and practice that existed under this government was also present under the red-green. I did not hear the SV address this issue at all over the eight years you put in power. It's all of a sudden now this has appeared. I understand that SV has a great commitment to this, and when it shows up individual things that show how the practice turns out, you get reactions. I've been at Stortinget for so many years that I know who put the structures for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e991	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1009	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1018	It's a little special day for climate debate. The day after the United States announced that they would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, we in the Norwegian Grand Prix announced that we would go in the opposite direction, that we would strengthen the objectives and laws of climate policy. It has been a pleasure to be the case rapporteur for the Climate Act, and I would like to start by thanking all the parties in the Energy and Environment Committee for their cooperation. With the current attitude, we have managed to establish a broad consensus on some climate policy plans. Firstly, we give climate policy a heavier anchor than before. The climate targets for 2030 and 2050 are now under law, and we are clarifying and quantifying an ambitious target for 2050. Secondly, the position shows that there is a broad consensus on Norwegian climate ambitions and that they should not be weakened, but systematically revised and strengthened, in line with the Paris Agreement. We're always going to have discussions in this room about the level of ambition in climate policy. I believe that each party will present its views in the Chamber today. We were invited by the environmental movement to eat cake in the hiking hall on the day that the committee gave its opinion on the climate law, and it gives a good picture of how important this law is for too many. Contrary to other decisions we take in this Chamber, the climate law has a perspective that blows the limits of the budget year and the limits of the parliamentary term and decade. It's 33 years to 2050. Several of those who are going to sit in this hall then, are not yet born. In 2050 our generation will approach the history books. How Norway managed its part of the responsibility for climate problems will be widely discussed in those books. I think I'm talking on behalf of the entire committee when I stress that we see the seriousness and understand the challenges. The Climate Act is a piece that will give Norwegian climate action both direction and progress in the years to come. One of the most important things about the Climate Act is that it launches an entirely new systematic approach in Norwegian climate work. Every five years from 2020, Norwegian climate targets shall be reviewed on a scientific basis, taking into account progress and in view of Norway’s achievement of the objective of being a low-carbon society by 2050. We're going to get annual statements from the government on how large the emissions are, how they're going to evolve, and how they match the climate law's objectives. We're going to be able to describe how we're climate-adapting society, and we're going to get an overview of sectoral emissions. The size has adjusted some important things in the government's arrangement that it is necessary for me to mention in particular. Firstly, we have been made aware that the Climate Act explicitly and equally mentions greenhouse gas emissions and greenhouse gas emissions. It's important and good. Some will probably feel that it is unreasonable to calculate natural ecological processes in this way, for example. by taking account of forest uptake – despite a wide range of natural processes that provide for the absorption of CO 2, the sea plays not least an important role. To that I will answer: Yes, it's true that both the sea and the forest have a natural absorption of CO 2, but it's just the recording in the forest we can influence by means of politics. This makes it not only possible but also desirable that the inclusion in forest plays a role in climate accounting. The second thing I want to mention is that we have been given a clear clarification in the setting that today we have a deficient method and model to calculate emissions from the agricultural sector. Here are some clear orders and leads from the committee. The majority of the Committee clearly states that ‘emissions from agricultural biological processes cannot be treated as emissions’ from ‘fossil sources’. Finally, I would also like to mention that the majority of the Committee has agreed that a Technical Calculation Committee should be set up in the field of climate change. It acknowledges that the estimates available to policy makers need to be better than they are today. The majority decide that the sample should be managed by the Environment Directorate. The Central Statistical Office, the NIBIO and the TØI shall be members of the Technical Calculation Committee. With such a representation, we are covering the environment that is currently reporting Norwegian emissions to the UN, and we are particularly covering the non-quota sector in a good way. I take it for granted that the government will follow up the clear majority comment on this point, and will include these organisations – neither fewer nor more – in such a calculation selection. It will contribute to a clearer picture of facts and figures in the climate debate, and we will all benefit from that. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Central Party is making to promote in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1054	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1060	First, thank you to the rapporteur for a very good work on an important matter. I believe that the Storting today, through our remarks and decisions, makes the law both better and more precise. I would also like to thank all those fires in the environmental movement who have worked purposely for Norway to have a climate law. Through hard work, argumentation and mobilization, today we get a climate law. There is every reason to both thank you and congratulate you on this. By means of a climate law, we target the objectives we have in our climate policy. The 2030 and 2050 targets are now being legalised. In addition, we say something about the path towards a low-carbon society. The Government shall report annually on the climate impact of the State budget and the status of the Norwegian carbon budget. Every five years, the objectives shall be updated in line with the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. From the Workers' Party we are also very pleased that we now have a technical estimation committee that will be able to calculate the impact of different climate action. In the budget chaos last year, we saw that much of the debate was about how to measure emissions, rather than about what kind of measures to actually implement and should be implemented. We kind of hit each other in the head with different numbers and calculations. We're going to be able to avoid that with a sample that could give us all the same reality. There we gather the leading professionals in Norway, who could say what the impact of the various proposals could be, and then we get politicians to discuss which proposals we are actually going to implement. When we launched this proposal, state council Vidar Helgesen thought that having such a sample would be completely unnecessary, while CICERO, TØI and other professional environments and environmental organisations thought this was a good and proper proposal to get a better method of calculating the impact of the measures. Today, I am pleased that it is only the Progress Party that seems to agree with Vidar Helgesen that this was an unnecessary proposal, and that all other parties are in favour of setting up a technical calculation committee. For our part, we will say – as we have written in the comments, and as the rapporteur explained – that it is essential that we also get participation from outside the bureaucracy. In the comments, we point out, among other things: at the Institute of Transport Economics as one of the bodies required to be present. There is also a list of other organs that should be included. We don't necessarily view it as complementary, but as a minimum. It will then be kept under constant review by the government of any other actors within and outside the bureaucracy. In addition, we in the Workers' Party, together with the other opposition parties, are outside the cooperation agreement and say that we want sectoral emission paths, including an overview of what measures are needed to achieve the objectives of both the quota and non-quota sectors. We think it is strange that the Storting today cannot unanimously agree that this is information that we also want for the non-quota sector. In particular, I think it is strange that the Left and Christian People's Party is not involved in securing a majority for that proposal today. Let me conclude by saying that it is good that the Stortinget today unanimously adopts the decision on a climate law, which I think has become a good law. When we decided earlier in this period that we wanted such a law, the Group of the Progressive Party voted against. It is good that the Progress Party has obviously turned around, and I will give them credit for that. But it's another example that discussing climate policy with the Progress Party is like shooting at a moving target. You never know what you're going to get. On Tuesday, Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Søviknes, stood here in Stortinget and said that the Progress Party was quite clear on the goal that all new sales of passenger cars in 2025 would be a zero-emission vehicle. Today, we are addressing a comment that says that the majority of the Committee – all except the members of the Progress Party – will point to the broad consensus and objective that all passenger cars in 2025 should be a zero-emission vehicle. It's simply not going to make sense where the Progress Party is. The only thing that is certain is that they are at least not a credible partner in climate policy. Finally, the climate policy we are adopting today is not a thank you for what kind of climate policy we are going to have in the future. It's a floor. There are no upper limits to what kind of goals or policies we should have. It will be up to the politicians who are elected to be in this room, but this gives us a common framework and legislate the objectives we have committed ourselves to internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1077	This was supposed to be a day of joy. The size will adopt a climate law, and we will thus legislate that we will be a low-carbon society by 2050. But it's still with a bit of a pain in the ass after yesterday's news from the United States that we have this debate today. Yesterday, the world's second-largest emitter, the United States, chose to sit completely on the outside of international climate work by announcing their withdrawal from the Paris Agreement. It's very regrettable – perhaps the most important thing for the United States itself. They argue that this is important in order to ensure American jobs and economic development. I think, unfortunately, that's the opposite of this decision. The global green shift won't stop. It is already today, for example. many more jobs in US solar and wind power than in the coal industry. Leaving the Paris Agreement creates uncertainty about global climate cooperation. However, there is no reason to be over-pessimistic, for the world community has responded to the decision of the United States to reaffirm once again its support for the Paris Agreement. The President of France said it might be best last night when he said to make our planet great again. Because of this, we should not be too depressed and also be proud that Norway will once again show that we want to take our share of the responsibility for combating climate change. When Stortinget adopts the Climate Act today, we become members of an exclusive club of countries that have such a law. The Nordic countries and the United Kingdom have gone ahead and passed such laws. Nordic cooperation in the climate field is solid. Therefore, it is also natural that the Nordic Prime Ministers together sent a joint address to President Trump with a call to the United States to stand by the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement, our joint emissions obligation with the EU, and the Climate Change Act now provides us with a solid foundation and framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The law sets out clear objectives and gives the Storting and the government a clear responsibility for pursuing a policy that reduces emissions. And fortunately, we're on the right track. Emissions in Norway are declining in both the non-quota and quota sectors. That's very good, and we're now beginning to see the results of the government leading in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. But it has been a long way from the first time you started talking about a climate law, until today we adopt such a law in Stortinget. I believe it is a clear force for the law that such a broad majority is behind it. This makes it stand for many years to come, regardless of who has the government power. It's just maybe the most important function this law wants. Indeed, it will continue to be the annual budgets and priorities that are being made, which will determine which actions are being implemented and where we are correcting the efforts. There will be annual presentations to the Storting on how to achieve the target. For the majority, this has been a crucial principle. We are not going to legislate the entire climate policy and remove it from the popularly elected level. It is an important democratic principle. In the consultation of the law, there were several who suggested that climate policy was too important to be left to politicians. I would warn against such an attitude, and I believe on the contrary that precisely because climate policy is so important, it must be managed by our elected politicians. I record that not everyone agrees with this, and once again we see that it is the same parties that usually separate layers with the vast majority of Norwegian climate policy, which also fester such a view. Instead of being proud that Norway, as one of the few countries in the world, now has a climate law, chooses, for example, SV to call the law a masquerade. The right is part of the majority of the Committee, which will set up a Technical Calculation Committee in the field of climate change. We believe that this will give us a more tidy climate debate, where we spend less time discussing the impact of the various measures and more time on which actions are actually sensible to implement. The work of the sample will be managed by the Environment Directorate and will draw on the best professional environments we have. We mention some of these in the comments in the settings, but I would like to make it clear that this does not preclude other actors from participating. It is up to the government to organise this selection in the best possible way. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very pleased that this decision is being taken today. It is good that Norway is given the opportunity to make an climate decision that helps us to share a common international responsibility for combating climate change the day after the United States chooses to send the opposite signal. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and the whole Committee for their good cooperation. It is therefore a unanimous decision today that Norway should have a climate law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1100	I fully agree with those who have spoken to now, that it is a special day to debate a climate law in Stortinget, when the United States has gone the other way. But what may be going to be the impact of the US decision will probably be debated many times in this room in the coming months and years. And then you see what the outcome is. What I thought I would spend my time here on now was just to add a few comments to the matter. First of all, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for doing a good job, and that is essentially a broad consensus in the Committee. The tripartite cooperation has been incorporated into the law, and fortunately, it does not get the majority, for I think it could have been perceived as quite unreasonable by the actors who would not have been brought into the law. As can be seen from the comments we have with other parties, one would have to take into account, among other things. the rights of indigenous peoples, human rights and biodiversity, which are also part of the Paris Agreement, but are not included. Picking out some people think I would be quite unfortunate, because individual interests would then be prioritised and would be more important than others. I don't think that would have been a good way to do that, because in the way Norway, the Storting and the government work, the input from the actors is an important and absolutely central element, and we have a good tradition for it in Norway. All parties will be heard. So until the proposal that the Progress Party has chosen to stand outside: we believe that the reasons behind the proposal to set up a technical estimation committee in the climate field are well taken care of today. We'll get a bunch of recordings. Some have indicated that a phase response should be obtained from this technical calculation committee. I don't think so, and I hope you don't either, because it would be creating a selection to stop one, in my view, important debate. There will also be a debate on those organisations that do not have the opportunity to participate in such a sample. Then it becomes to me a somewhat limping reason when someone says that this sample is going to come with what is the truth. So we have chosen not to support it, but records that it gets a majority using the other parties. We can do a little bit of that in that way. Finally, the setting establishes that the 2050 targets for greenhouse gas emission reduction are to be in the range of 80-95 pst. compared with 1990 emission levels. I think it's important to refer to the recordings that came to the hearing, where some organisations pointed out that it's uncertain how to achieve this goal, simply because you don't have the necessary technology, and you don't know the cost of such a goal. I think it's important to get out of this pulpit, too, that you've set some ambitious goals, which you don't know exactly how to achieve. But it is well possible that technology will take us in that direction within a sound financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1113	First, thank you to the case rapporteur, who has left us safely through this important matter. Today I am happy, relieved, and proud at one time. Finally, we are ready to adopt a climate law that obliges it at all times to systematically follow up our climate objectives and the Paris agreement. Our future depends on our success with the climate goals. It depends on all policies moving in the same direction. The Climate Act is one of the most important laws — perhaps the most important law — the Stortingeet adopts during this period, because it will ensure a longer-term climate policy. National climate targets must be based on facts from climate science. There is broad political agreement in Norway on many of the measures to achieve the 2 degree target. However, many of the most important measures needed can be rapidly prioritised in competition with more short-term measures. A climate law with carbon budgets based on the British model will ensure a long-term climate policy. The law won't come without a fight. I will not spend the time complaining about progress. After all, now we're all in goal. The government didn't send it until last year at the hearing a proposal that was a little too woolly and tame, to say it carefully. But with the climate becoming a core issue in the budget negotiations last autumn, the last turn was also the improvement of the climate law. And that's what the Climate Act did. An appeal point from several teams has been that you can risk ending up without climate change in your own country. Now it is the case that we have concluded an agreement with the EU on joint fulfilment of the cuts, because it is effective. But it must not and should not be a sleeping cushion for Norway at home. In that case, it will be in line with the intention of the law, which is that we have a low-carbon society in 2050. The transition to a low-carbon society does not have to be bad and difficult for business and performance. By being at the forefront of this transition, we can have many advantages in a global and in the long term less fossil-dependent market. But then we don't have to lean back and take the cuts in other countries. I also feel sure that this will not happen. There has been a desire for an independent Climate Council, and I will admit that I used to have the sense of this, not least because I see that it has played an important role in the United Kingdom. However, I am one of those who have discovered that this can be difficult in a Norwegian context, and that a technical calculation selection is more appropriate. If there was something we experienced in the budget negotiations last year, there was just the need for reworked and credible calculations of climate impact. It is natural that this work is managed by the Environment Directorate, as the proposal shows. Let me also take the opportunity to say that it is natural and important that the professional community of CICERO is also used in the calculation committee and other actors who can add important knowledge to the sample. Finally, congratulations on the day! Norway today adopts a climate law. It's no less than historical.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1134	Global warming, together with subsequent climate change, is the most alarming and frightening challenges facing the world. There will be major changes even if we succeed in the climate policy that we are now in the process of implementing. When the Paris Agreement was signed in 2015, there was a huge step on the way to getting the world to address its own emissions, reducing them, and thus addressing the biggest challenge facing us. There are 195 countries that have acceded to the Paris Agreement, and as several have pointed out, it is particularly important today to adopt a climate law in Norway, when the second largest emission source of the 195 countries, the United States, announced yesterday that they are withdrawing from the Paris Agreement. Now I believe that although President Trump is withdrawing from the Paris Agreement, in the years to come, the emissions in the United States are still going to fall. To date, there are strong enough forces in American business, local authorities and Länder to continue to pursue – and perhaps strengthen – climate policy. However, it is not possible to overestimate the importance of the withdrawal of the United States. It is clear that the United States, as a leader in climate change work, which has led to the drafting of the legislation on which the Paris Agreement will be based in the years to come, will be gone, and the financial support that they also provide for international climate work will be gone. But the only way to answer that is to do more — and do more together with the countries with which we work closely. Setting up a climate law in Norway has been a long process. For the first time in the last period, the left suggested working with a climate law. Then it got two votes. It has been proposed and adopted that we should produce a climate law during this period, and negotiations have been ongoing – with a consultation opinion last autumn – but we have also had negotiations in the budget work on the design of a climate law. So I would like to thank, as many others, both the rapporteur and the committee for the work that has been done on this law towards the enlargement process, but I would also like to thank both the government parties and the Christian People's Party for the work that we have done in the budget negotiations, especially this winter, where the concrete objectives and targets towards 2050 were precisely achieved – by 85-90 pst. reduction — and tightening the relationship between collapse and government, which means that we are now adopting a climate law with the same weight and comparable to the climate law in the United Kingdom. This is, of course, a climate law that is a complement to the policy we should otherwise pursue. We have a process in progress in terms of wanting to agree with the EU to reduce emissions by 40 pst. towards 2030. It will provide a set of rules that commit us to the EU, and we are now also setting targets towards 2050. This law guarantees the obligation that we have, the minimum that Norway must achieve, both alone and together with the EU. In addition, it is fully possible to have its own objectives in order to achieve even more than the commitments of the Climate Change Act. From the left side, I think that given what has happened, based on the work that has been done on climate legislation over a long period of time, the result is very good. Given the situation both we and the world are today, with the United States withdrawing from the Paris Agreement, it may be even more important than ever to show that we continue to move forward, and even more important that we now adopt such a law also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1149	There can be no doubt that right now President Trump is the greatest threat to our common future – not just by turning his back on the world by withdrawing the United States from the Paris Agreement, but primarily from the climate policy he is pursuing in the country with the world's second highest emissions. Although the use of words is different, national policies are shockingly similar in domestic regions. Trump rejects Obama's refusal to drill oil in the Arctic; in Norway, the Minister for Oil and Energy will open new areas for oil in the Arctic, and the Minister for the Environment will try to move the oil activity limits – the ice edge – further north and further north. Trump will fight the conversion to more renewable energy and revitalise the coal industry; in Norway, the government has cut support for new renewable energy and allocated more areas to oil than ever. Trump has put climate dissidents into key positions; in Norway, half of the Frps that are state councils are climate negators. Trump unwinds the national climate targets to cut up to 28 pst. CO 2 by 2025; in Norway, the government has blown off all national climate targets, and that is what is being legalised today. Of course, there are differences, but the similarities of policies that are actually being pursued are an unpleasant truth that many should become aware of. When the proposal for a climate law was promoted by the then leader of the WWF, Rasmus Hansson, the UK Climate Act, which to date has been a success. The core of the success of the UK law is the clear law-making of long-term national targets for emissions reduction, the clear law-making of national targets well in advance, the annual reporting of all national emissions including international aviation, an independent climate council providing advice on both up-to-date objectives and the policies to be pursued, and the updating of government and Parliament policies, which define how the objectives are to be achieved. None of these things are in place in the Climate Act that is being knocked through today. The long-term and short-term targets on emissions reduction are to be achieved jointly with the EU – there is no decision on how much we should cut in Norway. There will be no reporting of emissions cuts in industry and the oil industry. There will be no clear plan. There will be no independent climate council. All these things stand together, together with the Greens and the Greens, to propose – and I will address all the proposals on which SV is involved – together with a new goal of phasing out all fossil energy use by 2040. SV will also promote a long-term objective of zero emissions in 2050. In all recent years, the main dividing lines of Norwegian climate policy have been between those who believe that we should set clear national targets and those who believe that it is just as good to pay others to do climate change. The distinction between the oil parts of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right on one side and the rest of us on the other. Now it is only the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens who want to legislate on clear national targets; the rest is opposed. It is the saddest thing that has happened in Norwegian climate policy in the last four years. We had a national emission target against Jens Stoltenberg's will, pushed forward by SV in government and reinforced by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left outside government, that by 2020 national emissions would be cut to between 45 and 47 million tonnes. Before the elections, opposition parties promised that this would be achieved and that climate policy would be strengthened. The reports of the Environment Directorate in 2014 showed that this was possible. Now, after four years of right-wing rule, blessed by the Left and Christian People's Party, the government's perspective statement shows that the 2020 emissions target of cutting to 47 million tonnes is not reached until 2030. All except the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens agree to legislate on the climate target for 2020, which we agreed on in the climate agreements in 2007 and 2012. It's not random that every time I look at Trine Skei Grande, I think of Siv Jensen. It is bad that the Centre Party, which is opposed to EU directives, believes it is good to buy free of climate change by investing in green conversion in Spain instead of investing in green conversion in Norway. It is doubtful that Rasmus Hansson is cheering on the climate legislation adopted today, although he knows so deeply that the law we are adopting today is not going to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and he called it himself a pest when it was presented. It is not surprising that people are confused about the climate debate in Norway today. All the parties use the same find words, and the value conflicts are almost gone. Therefore, it is easy for many parties to condemn President Trump today, but do not forget that Trump's climate policy has good growth conditions in the Norwegian government. That is why the climate law that is adopted today is a law that I have previously called a sandwich. Despite Trump's cancelling the Paris Agreement and the Climate Convention, I have hope for the future: because electricity from the sun is cheaper for the first time than paid-down coal, because of Germany's solar subsidies, and because electric car and battery prices fall due to, among other things. Norwegian electric car policy. It is obvious that Norway should assume its reasonable responsibility to cut national emissions and cut oil extraction, then parties such as SV and the Green Party must become significantly stronger. The election on 11 September is the first chance for people to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1167	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1173	I don't see as dark in the day as the representative Holmås does, and it's because it's nice and constructive to be able to stand here a few years after we in WWF took the initiative to work on this law, and stood quite alone about it, and today hear a unanimous magnification adopt it. The point of this law is that it does something and provides something that Norwegian climate policy has been very lacking until now: a systematic framework for the implementation of climate policy, and binding points in its implementation, which will make it much more difficult – not impossible, but much more difficult – to continue what is the intrepid tradition of Norwegian climate policy, namely not to keep what is promised. We now have two reporting points each year in the Storting, both in relation to the presentation of the State budget and to the reporting on the implementation of climate policy, which makes it both possible and necessary for all parties in the Storting to decide on the whole of climate policy, not only the advertising proposals on measures such as cutting something, but also the proposals or measures in the State budget that increase emissions or undermine emissions. It is a type of holistic approach that is a significant step forward in Norwegian climate policy. It will also be a significant step forward that we force ourselves to strengthen climate goals every five years, based on professional advice, among other things. from a calculation committee that will make history the game we had with the state budget just before Christmas, where there was a wild and completely unintelligible dispute about who met and did not meet what climate goals. Next time, we need to know what the climate budgets of the Progress Party, of the Workers' Party and of the Centre actually mean by the long-term objectives set. Then there has never been any doubt that the Greens are critical of many aspects of Norwegian climate policy, and we are very critical of parts of this law as well. Perhaps the most problematic thing is that the bulk of the population adopts a formulation of a low-carbon society in 2050 which means that Norway will be able to become a low-carbon society without cutting emissions. It is not going to be feasible, because there are so many technological, economic and political developments that will make such a strategy impossible, but it is sad that the majority of the population stick to the kind of formulation that involves just one thing, namely the idea that Norway should be – and serve to become – the last fossil country in Europe. What is perhaps most important in the law now passed, alongside setting a framework for work at Stortinget, is the signal and opportunities it provides for Norwegian industry development and for the development of Norwegian jobs. Indeed, it is climate policy and policy to meet the UN's international sustainability goals, which are the main global and national driver of industrial development, of technological development and, I would say, of social development in our day. Providing Norwegian business with a clearer message that this policy will now be implemented is the best gift we can give to business – much better and much more valuable than details of tax measures. A very important weakness in this law, which we must work on, is the fact that the Environment Party has pointed out a number of times: the fact that Norway's sovereign greatest climate responsibility – the oil and the gas we export, and the emissions, the ten times as high as it causes – are still something that the Storting is turning its back on completely. It and the use of State pension funds abroad – 8 000 billion kr invested in mainstream development on the world market, a mainstream that is dangerous for the future of the earth – are the two major climate dinosaurs that we still do not address and that we need to address in the future. Otherwise, I will deal with the suggestions we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1194	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1199	The Paris Agreement is a strong political and legal commitment. It is also a deep moral commitment to joint global action against climate change. The day after the President of the United States has turned his back on this moral community, the Stortinget today brings the main content of the Paris Agreement into Norwegian law. I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their good work. The law also requires that we legislate with the EU. This cooperation is now becoming an even more important part of Norwegian climate policy, given that the United States is leaving the Paris Agreement. It is now above all the EU that is given the responsibility to give leadership to international climate negotiations. The initiative taken jointly by the government and cooperation partners with the EU in climate policy also strengthens Norway's impact in international climate negotiations, and it becomes important when the EU is given a stronger and more important role. I am pleased that there is broad support for the proposals and key actions agreed by the government and the cooperation parties last autumn. It is not that the political challenge of further developing climate policy disappears with this climate law. We legislate on the long-term goal of becoming a low-carbon society in Norway, but there are policies and decisions to take us there. The important thing is that hereafter all future governments and the Great Governments, regardless of their colour and political structure, are obliged by the law to work to achieve this goal. My predecessor Tine Sundtoft said in connection with the request decision in 2015 that the climate law will strengthen our climate democracy. There is an important added value in the law. Through the systematic approach set out in annual reports to the Stortinget, the Climate Act facilitates a regular, well-thought-out and open debate on the status and progress of climate policy. By taking the Paris mechanism home, the law provides for a more comprehensive assessment of Norway’s response to the climate challenge every five years and whether we can go further. There are three important things I want to highlight. The first is that we legislate the climate target for 2030 at 40 p.m. reduction, where the main intervention of the government is that the objective can be achieved jointly with the EU. We have never had such a binding target for emissions. Implementation in Norway is becoming demanding. It will require new measures and instruments, and before the summer, the government will present a big deal with an overall strategy to achieve this goal. The Climate Act facilitates the continuation of a solution jointly with the EU after 2030. We already have close integration with the European Union in climate policy. The EU has adopted an ambitious road map towards a low-carbon economy in 2050, and cooperation with the EU on the joint implementation of climate targets can make important contributions to national emission reductions and to the long-term transition to which the Climate Change Act is to promote, with the legalisation of the objective of a low-carbon society. Secondly, Norway is a small and open economy. An ambitious climate policy in Norway cannot be seen in isolation from the countries around us. Lawmakers stress that an ambitious national policy must be sensible in an international context. This means that policy-making shall take into account the consequences of the quota system, the risk of carbon leakage and the competitiveness of industry. The law takes into account the fact that about half of Norway’s emissions are currently covered by the EU ETS for activities. Thirdly, the law makes an important balance between law and policy, or between the legalisation of climate policy and political responsibility. I noticed that a majority in the Committee also emphasises this, that climate policy is and remains a central political challenge, and that there are elected bodies that must maintain the initiative in the formulation of policy solutions. It is also important because climate change is a migration challenge. The Paris Agreement provides a framework for the major social transformation that Norway is about to undergo in order to become a low-carbon society by 2050. The Climate Act clarifies the responsibility of the government and the Stortinge in climate policy, but leaves the concrete design behind future decisions. I also note the request to appoint a Technical Calculation Committee, chaired by the Environment Directorate. With the device it is provided by Stortinget, I think it can be a positive contribution to Norwegian climate policy. It will not solve the challenges of measuring and calculating emissions effects, but it could create a better common understanding of the challenges and contribute to improved methods. It will strengthen the role of the Environment Directorate as the coordinator of professional cooperation on the factual basis of climate policy. The Climate Act is based on the broad lines we agree on in climate policy. It doesn't solve all the disagreements, but I think we can agree that the transition to the low-carbon society will challenge Norwegian society for many years to come, and that the climate law will ensure a good systematic approach in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1225	I'm going to arrest the last time the Council of State took up its post, which was about this technical calculation committee. I am pleased that the Council of State is now more positive about it. We heard when the proposal came that he felt this was unnecessary. I think he used words like butter in a bottle. Nevertheless, all parties in the Stortinget today, with the exception of the Advance Party, are of the opinion that this is important in order to strengthen the decision-making base for different road choices made in climate policy. We believe that for this to be a selection that should have maximum credibility, it is also essential to get participation outside of bureaucracy, and even if we do not write it in the proposal itself, there is no doubt that when you read the comments about what is the majority of the population – a very broad majority – clear will. Therefore, I ask my direct question to the Council of State: Will he immediately start work on starting a technical calculation committee with participation in line with the large number of people who write in their comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1232	I can confirm that I will follow up this and initiate that work immediately. We aim for the law to come into force on 1 January 2018, which means that the frameworks and activities to be carried out and necessary for the implementation of the law must also be in place until then. I think it's important to consider two things. One is the inclusion that Stortinget places great emphasis on, that different environments should be involved in the process. The second and very important thing is that those who are responsible for the implementation of the policy and the underlying agencies of the departments are involved and responsible for climate policy, and that means that their participation, the sector by sector, is becoming very important. We have to have both of those considerations with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1239	The Council of State has been EU Minister and is now Minister for Climate Change. There is no doubt that the Council of State is more concerned about the EU than about cutting Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The law adopted today will not set national emission targets, it is only things that will be implemented jointly with the EU. Cooperation with the EU is mentioned more than 50 times, while emissions are mentioned six times, and it is well descriptive of what the Council of State has in mind. Therefore, my question is very, very simple, because even if you do not have a goal, it is nevertheless essential to plan to cut emissions in Norway. Therefore, I ask: What level of Norwegian emissions has the government asked the civil service to plan to achieve in 2020 and 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1246	To take the last one first, we're coming up with a big message about climate policy soon, and there we're going to put up an overall strategy to achieve the 2030 targets. For the 2020 targets, the underlying climate agreement. As the Perspective Communication shows, we have agreed with the measures adopted by the government and the cooperation parties, cut the gap we took, by three quarters, and we are therefore on a good path – if not otherwise – very close to the 2020 target, and that is based on relatively conservative estimates. Then I just want to say that the EU climate policy solution will lead to greater commitments for Norway: annual emissions budgets that we haven't had before, a much clearer international monitoring that we're doing our job. This is why the EU solution and national commitments go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1253	I did not ask if the climate agreement was based, because all of us who are here have decided that the climate agreement is the basis. What I asked the Council of State was: What has the Council of State asked the government in the various departments to plan to achieve greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and 2030? The adoption and celebration of things in celebrations is quite different from going home and planning to achieve the emission targets. Therefore, I ask: What has the government decided to ask its government to plan for 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1258	It is the case, as everyone knows correctly in this Chamber, that the climate agreement is at the heart of it, and the work and priority of this government and the cooperation parties has had is to strengthen the instruments, to strengthen climate reconciliation, to bring the objectives closer. But much of the assumptions and systematics in the 2020 work were at stake when we took over. We've focused on strengthening it, and we've certainly done the same. We bring in for the 2030 goals a systematic that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås could only dream of when he and his party sat in government. There we come with a completely different plan than the Norwegian climate policy before we took over. Therefore I will ask Holmås to have patience a few weeks before he will be able to take part in the great pleasure of reading our big message with a greater systematics in the climate policy for 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1266	I wonder! I see, of course, that the Council of State is a man who generally sends a big message after it is possible for the Storting to handle these messages. The size never gets the chance to control climate policy in this area because the Council of State spends too long to figure out what in the world it is he thinks. The Council of State says we're getting a whole new systematic in the emissions cuts in Norway. Governments have promoted a climate law where they have not even planned to report on half of Norway’s emissions. Emissions in the quota sector, in other words from industry and the oil industry, have not even been reported by the Council of State. Then I ask: what kind of systematics and what kind of national ambitions and goals is he asking the government to plan to achieve cut-offs in the quota sector, in other words in industry and in the oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1273	The President will note that she does not believe the Council of State Helgesen needs to respond to the kind of communication he has with his office.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1278	Thank you for that point, President. I can still say that in the message we will come back to clearer objectives and more systematics. I look forward to it. The European ETS has a system to ensure that the emission targets are achieved. Norwegian industry is also involved in contributing to the achievement of European climate objectives. The targets applicable to the 2020 allowance system will be achieved. The targets that will apply to 2030 shall be achieved. And we need measures to reach them. I just want to say that when it comes to the biggest message, it comes as a message before the plan, in the sense that we will come to Stortinget with one thing when the EU solution is ready. So we think we know enough now to come up with an overall strategy to achieve the 2030 targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1287	Taking into account how the government and, to the extent that previous governments have opposed the introduction of a climate law, it must be nice to stand here as the Council of State presenting this as a very important instrument. Among the many signs that this still exists is that the government has so strongly opposed reporting at sector level, i.e. by department, how emissions are going to go down and down within transport, agriculture, etc. It would be seen as relatively psychedelic if the government budget felt that it was a reasonable flexibility not to clarify the budgets in agriculture and transport, but only to report everything in the same soup. The question to the Council of State is: how will he deal with the problem that arises when there is no systematic reporting at sectoral level in the non-quota sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1292	In the non-quota sector, we get a target that is going to be 40 pst. Both sectoral and cross-sectoral instruments shall be used. The CO 2 tax is an important instrument in this way. How it will look for different sectors is not always as easy to predict, but we want to ensure that we achieve that objective for the non-quota sector as a whole. This is what we want to ensure by ensuring that, with the EU solution, we get emissions budgets for which we have to respond, and which, unlike what many try to claim, will mean massive emissions reductions in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1300	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1318	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. The President will also propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1327	I must thank the Committee for good cooperation, but I would say that it has certainly not been the most demanding matter to be the case rapporteur for. What this case is about is ‘catskiing’. The background to our case today is that when we last amended the Motor Traffic Act, a proposal came in to look at the possibility of running with ‘catskiing’. Thus, ‘Catskiing’ is used when transporting skiers on the mountain with trams or a similar large belt wagon, so that they can ski in unprepared ski slopes. The opening up of motor travel in the field is demanding, and there is nothing that the Committee agrees with this time either. What I think is why in many ways we can allow a certain decoration or a certain way to do this is that it can be done in a relatively gentle way, as we do not allow for a permanent modification of the motorcycling law, but an opportunity to have a test scheme that will last for six years. That sample scheme shall relate to areas already in use, as it must be linked to already existing ski facilities. For nature's sake, I think what makes us get so large a majority to be able to open it up is that it's being done in a very gentle way. It's a gentle test arrangement we're now opening up to. For the municipalities that might want to do that, we have said that we want to open up six places where this can be tested out. As I said, it has to be tested in areas where you already have a skier, and for many of those skiers, you are in the areas outside the loops with a troweling machine. So, as of today, you don't have the right to have people hanging out. We're now opening that up. In addition, in order to be allowed to participate in the testing scheme, or for those municipalities which are authorised to open the testing scheme, there is a very extensive procedure to be followed, relating to the motor vehicle movement law § 4a and the same provision in the regulation. This means having a fairly large investigation related to how this is to be done, taking into account the considerations to be taken, and also the limitations relating to protected areas and other vulnerable systems. I allow myself to say that I think it is not easy, as I said – it is demanding to open up motor travel in the field. This is a test scheme that some industries have asked us to look at. We do it in a very gentle way, and we can do it without having too many consequences. It is a six-year project, which is to be evaluated after four years, and which will form the basis for any decision on this to be considered in the future after six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1340	If you take it, you take it,' said the man and the lessed stick after the stick on the sleigh drawer behind his horse. Finally, of course, the load was too heavy, and the horse was unable to get off the spot. This story has probably heard many of us in childhood, and the parallel to the debate on motor travel abroad has perhaps seen some of my honourable co-representatives already. If we clear out the limits of what is allowed by unnecessary motor travel in the terrain, more and more – if only a little – there are fewer and fewer areas left without motors that disturb the calm in the mountains. There are a lot of limitations to this proposal. The majority and the government envisage a limited pilot project, limited in time and extent. The aim is, to a large extent, affordable: to provide a basis for new industries in connection with Alpine installations or the expansion of existing industries — and to the north. There are probably a lot of people who want to use this, and it'll be even harder to cut through and say no after new industries are established. We see the business argument. We believe, however, that the consideration of least unnecessary motor travel in nature, and of the safety of escape and accidents, trumps this. The Environment Directorate advises against opening catskiing in Norway. We agree with the heart, and we will vote against the amendment of the law. Let me add that I am a little surprised at the position of the Left in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1353	Why has Stortinget adopted a law on motor travel in the outfield that says we should not have motor travel in the outland? Well, that's because the Stortinget thought we shouldn't have motor racing in the outfield. But after that law was passed, the majority's main ambition has been to use every opportunity to drill small and large holes in that law, so that there can still be a little more motor traffic in the outland, with the most remarkable and far-reaching reasons. We've had a rough round of free slips of snowmobiles, which started with a so-called test order. That test system showed very clearly, and the experience from other countries shows very clearly, what happens when you allow an industry of interest groups to do the opposite of what is the purpose of the law, namely to drive motor travel in the field: it becomes very difficult for the large, conventional and not so much environmentally interested parties to resist the pressure arising from these so-called testing schemes. That's why we've got this unworthy release of snowmobiles in Norwegian nature, which this big business recently decided. Now we're at it again. Now you're going to try out what it means to drive prep machines up with some people who hang out, so they can go skiing down. Most people in this room have probably been out in the terrain with snow on, so they can imagine about what it's all about. Everyone can also imagine what it's all about when business interests are established over six years, which seem to be a good idea, and set up groups that think it fun, and then you have to try to resist the views of those groups and the business interests in evaluating the scheme. There is one possibility of limiting this, and it is that the Stortinge re-establishes the respect for the law on nature that was previously adopted – that the Stortinge regains the foundation of this law on nature protection: that sometimes one has to have a backbone to say no, for nature reasons, on nature's behalf, and for the sake of the vast majority of people who do not have a primary interest in being roped up by pre-tapping machines or other things. I hope that in six years' time we will have a boom that has restored respect for nature conservation laws, the responsibility that must be felt to preserve a nature that has weak interests on its side, and the long-termity that is required to understand what to do when releasing a nutrition in a so-called trial project and so on should be able to limit it afterwards, once it has established itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1366	First I have to say that I am happy to hear that there may be more than me wondering what this catskiing was, the first time they heard the word. This government is generally committed to strengthening local democracy and the opportunities of districts to create jobs and growth. That is why I have put forward a proposal which means that municipalities can be empowered to lay down rules on a municipal testing scheme for catskiing. We have a long country. There are very wide variations in natural diversity, area, topography, climate and population. In some municipalities there is a lot of space in mountain homes, limited natural diversity and relatively few users of nature. Elsewhere there is more established and extensive classical outdoor life or valuable or threatened natural diversity, such as: wildness that needs to be taken into account in particular. Some municipalities have alpine facilities where catskiing can provide the basis for new incomes, others have a significant tourism industry that bases its activity on the highly valuable untouched nature and non-motorised movement. The possibility of experiencing natural areas without noise is an important national common good. It is of great importance that such values be respected. We know that catskiing can have no negligible disadvantages for travel, outdoor life, natural diversity and clean-up operations, and that it can contribute to an increased risk of escape, damage and accidents. There is little experience of catskiing in other countries, the extent to which it will be uncertain, and therefore also the possible negative effects if the legislation is amended. Therefore, my starting point is that opening for catskiing should be knowledge-based and within a clear framework. This is the background for me not proposing a permanent general change to the Motor Trade Act, but instead a law that opens up a test scheme limited to six years and a representative sample of six municipalities. Furthermore, the government has chosen to promote the most gentle of the alternatives at the hearing, i.e. that there can only be established loops for catskiing in relation to existing alpine installations. The system shall be evaluated after four years and the evaluation shall be completed in order to allow for any permanent legislative amendment to take effect before the expiry of the testing scheme. In addition, I propose criteria for municipal catskiing loops, so that consideration of, among other things. natural and outdoor diversity is safeguarded. Transport shall take place in defined loops and may not be placed in protected areas and national wild areas or require off-road operations. Furthermore, loops shall not cause significant damage or disadvantage to reindeer operations. Municipalities must assess the impact on outdoor life and natural diversity and take a number of considerations into account in the work on the loops, especially for outdoor life, but also for natural diversity, residential and cabin areas, landscapes, cultural memories and the cultural environment. Safety both for those who are driving and for others must also be ensured. As a result, it will be far from free from the local authorities participating in the experiment. Through the proposed rules of procedure, we also ensure that knowledge and information on consequences and local involvement are taken into account. At the same time, in the design of the proposal, I have placed great emphasis on the fact that the process must be through to establish loops, to be simple, and that it should be clear which rules apply. The Ministry will come back to additional criteria for the selection of municipalities for the test in the context of the test scheme, as well as changes to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the outland and on ice watercourses. By opening up in the first place a very limited testing scheme for catskiing, which also has conditions for safeguarding important societal interests, I believe we have reduced the risk of negative consequences to a minimum. Instead, we get a good and useful knowledge base that can give us a clue as to whether catskiing is something to bet on – or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1385	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1402	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from the government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1407	The proposals that we are dealing with in this matter were promoted by the representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Karin Andersen and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, and are about to ensure that palm oil-based biofuels are not sold in Norway. The Labour Party is largely in favour of the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative, and we are today promoting a new proposal which we believe can replace proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Palm oil production contributes to the deforestation of the rainforest, and we know that the rainforest is being destroyed at a crazy pace. We have to be sure that the palm oil we use does not lead to deforestation, and with today's system we cannot be. Sustainable biofuels contribute to emissions cuts, but at worst, bad biofuels can lead to increased emissions, and we need to ensure that they do not. Biofuels made from palm oil can therefore lead to higher greenhouse gas emissions than fossil fuels if the extraction of palm oil leads to deforestation. For the Workers' Party, an important argument is that we need to stimulate the production of biofuels here in Norway, among others. because biofuels based on wood and forest raw materials have high climate benefits. This reduces emissions by more than 90 pst. compared to fossil fuels in the transport sector. Of course, we are also open to other production of advanced biofuels from algae or other wastes than from the forest. The rainforest gives life to 260 million people and maybe as much as 80 pst. of terrestrial animal and plant species. The annual emissions from deforestation correspond to the annual emissions of all world cars. The world's forests are a gigantic carbon stock. Maintaining rainforests thus contributes to curbing global climate change as well as halting the loss of biodiversity and habitats to millions of people. The demand for raw materials such as food and animal feed, timber and paper, fuel and minerals is the main cause of the disappearance of the rainforest. The construction of roads and hydropower stations is also part of the destruction. After criticism, more and more fuel companies have said that they will no longer contribute to the deforestation of the rainforest. There are four major fuel suppliers in Norway, and two of the four large ones have not yet purchased biofuels made from palm oil this year. But they use biofuels from, among others. offal and spent frying oil. It is a better environmental solution, leading to an increase in the demand for biofuels from good raw materials. At the same time, this fuel is more expensive than palm oil based biofuels, so companies lose money compared to competitors buying biofuels made from palm oil. This is an unfortunate situation, and it may in the long run lead to the need for all companies to switch to palm oil-based biofuels. We don't want to. That is why we support the proposals today. A majority today proposes to require the public not to use biofuels based on palm oil or by-products in public tenders. It is important that the public show the way and go ahead. The proposal does not require that biofuels be required in all public tenders, but, if biofuels are to be used, either the marketing ban or beyond, it shall not be based on palm oil. A consequence of this, in addition to removing palm oil-based fuels from the Norwegian market, will hopefully be that more than one bid for e.g.: ferries require electricity or hydrogen. The working party will primarily bet on zero-emission vehicles, both ferries and buses, etc., but we need biofuels today for those cars that are not zero-emission cars. Then we noticed that there was a letter from Helgesen yesterday, and I would like to stress on behalf of the proposers that we assume that Helgesen's work on the regulation is in dialogue with ESA and ensures that it is known what we want. We ask the Council of State to come back to the Storting immediately if it is revealed that the proposal for a decision that we are going to vote for today, which will have a majority, cannot be implemented. I take up the proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1432	The representative Anna Ljunggren has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1437	The theme of biofuels and palm oil has been frequently debated in Stortinget last year, and this proposal for a representative is incorporated into the range of proposals to change the framework conditions for the sale of biofuels in Norway. The dispute has been over whether it is acceptable that palm oil is used as biofuel raw material and whether it is possible to make strange requirements for biofuels within the framework of EEA cooperation. To date, the majority of the Stortinget have considered that all raw materials must be treated equally according to the legislation, while a minority have considered that palm oil must be banned in any case. As the majority is in the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, it now looks as if this is changing. Sometimes it's remarkably quick to change your mind. On 20 October last year, the majority wrote in Innst. 29 S for 2016-2017 – cf. Document 8:60 S for 2015-2016: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Working Party, the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left, would stress that palm oil used in fuel is fully acceptable, provided that the product meets the EU sustainability criteria.’» Now, just under nine months later, the Labour Party has completely changed its view. I just have to say that even when it comes to biofuels, the Workers' Party confirms that they have become a lot like wings. It is a pity for those who are trying to build a market for biofuels in Norway, and it is a pity that it makes it more difficult to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. For business and those who are trying to build an industry, these ever-changing political positions are very demanding. The industry feedback is very clear: constant changes in the framework conditions create uncertainty and help customers to choose conventional fuels rather than biofuels. A ban on that type of raw material — although sustainable — makes it more difficult to obtain enough fuel for the market at an acceptable price. There is no doubt that the industry also wants to raise the volumes of production here at home, and that more and more of this will be second generation biofuels based on, for example, wastes and residues from other industries. The problem is that by creating new rules, such as: for public procurement now, it helps to create a severe imbalance and potentially destroy the market in a transitional phase until more advanced biofuels become available. One of the industry actors also warns in a letter to the Committee on Energy and the Environment that it will significantly increase the costs and uncertainties of public operators and privately owned companies involved in fossil-free transport projects and that specific public procurement requirements are imposed. This is very unfortunate, and the majority bears a heavy responsibility for once again changing the framework conditions for an entire industry. The absence of predictability for those who want to produce and sell biofuels in Norway is at all so large that it is almost difficult to understand that anyone dares to bet at all. In the same spirit, it is also worth asking why the majority is so concerned about involving authorities in agreements that the industry itself has concluded. In fact, those who sell biofuels in Norway themselves take a great deal of responsibility for their products, and earlier this year they went out with a business statement that they don't want to sell biofuels with palm oil. Nevertheless, the majority would like the authorities to go into this and potentially re-enter Norway into a grey zone with regard to the provisions of the EEA Agreement on free competition and a free market without interference by the authorities. There is also reason to recall that the Environment Directorate reports that, apart from all biofuels traded in 2016, the EU met sustainability criteria. It shows that today's policy is working. The government, together with the cooperative parties, has adopted an ambitious biofuel escalation plan that requires us to have access to raw materials that provide the best climate effects until we fully start our own production. A ban on sustainable palm oil could result in the use of raw material with a much lower climate effect. This is what I call symbol politics. There has been a broad consensus in the past that we need to create framework conditions that are predictable and long-term. With the proposals that are being adopted here today, I believe that a direction is now being set that is strictly opposite to that of previously adopted policies. There has also been a tradition of addressing issues relating to international agreements and not least the competitiveness of Norwegian business before final decisions are taken. The right and the right parties will therefore not support the proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1459	First I need a clarification from SV. It is not possible to set this option, but simply on the original Document 8 proposal. It says: ‘Since the government’s own discipline, the Environment Directorate2’ – and here reference is made to an annex – ‘having pointed out that the climate use of palm oil-based biofuels is negative, whether certified or uncertified, because all the increased demand for palm oil in today’s palm oil market contributes to increased deforestation, the government should do its utmost to ensure that all use of biofuels in Norway is palm oil-free.’ You refer to an attachment. I've read that appendix several times, and I can't actually find where to draw one of those endings out of it. It's really the opposite, because on page 6 of the Annex, it says: ‘Totally, this study shows that the use of palm oil has a very different effect depending on whether production results in drainage of bogs and/or deforestation.’ That is why I want SV to refer to where they have coverage for the claim contained in the original document. So to the last proposal that has come up in the matter, and as case-rapporteur Anna Ljunggren remarked in his post, in response to the letter that came from the State Council of Helgesen and the State Council of Malta. So in the article, Anna Ljunggren says you're going to have a dialogue with ESA. Well, how long will that dialogue last? That should also be stated, and that the Council of State will immediately return to the Storting. But then the big question is, what is the operational policy here? Is it Anna Ljunggren's interpretation of the decision, or is it the wording of the decision to which the government is to relate? It is obvious that this is the wording of the proposal that the government has to deal with, and it is therefore to formulate a regulation that the Council of State strongly warns that there may be a breach of the EEA Agreement. The proposers simply want to put the government and the Council of State in such a position that a decision could, most likely, be a breach of the EEA Agreement. That's pretty interesting. For the purposes of its design, the amendment shall be made by law, regulation or administrative action. It means, in my view, that this can be implemented quite quickly by the government. I think the proposal is bad. It is – to put it straight – little thoughtful, and I ask the proposers to turn it into a transmission proposal, in fact, not to put the Storting in a bad light. It is warned that a decision you can take in the Storting will be very difficult and demanding to implement. It is not because one disagrees politically, but simply because of the international agreements that Norway has. It is also quite strange when it comes to palm oil, which we have discussed many times in this Chamber, that the Workers' Party is now changing its full position in the matter. It's enough to refer to the post that was in front of me, at Torhild Aarbergsbotten, which in an excellent way referred to the change that has occurred in the Labour Party's policy from 20 October last year. When I heard the rapporteur's comments, it was not mentioned in one word why the Workers' Party changed its position. It is quite strange, because it has great significance, not only in the form of the proposal they have made that challenges Norway in the EEA Agreement, but not least in the interests of all those who work in this industry, who want to have predictable framework conditions, and who are now once again having the framework conditions torpedoed and smashed by the Workers' Party in terms of fuel. I think it is very unfortunate that the Workers' Party can act completely as a wing party in this matter and appear a little credible and long-term. So it's the party that has the ambition to take over the government power. I hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1484	Biofuels are part of future energy mix and part of the solution to meet future energy needs. However, biofuels are not the simplest part of future energy mix. Non-sustainable biofuels are not part of the solution, on the contrary. Sustainable biofuels will be important, especially where it may be difficult to use electricity and hydrogen. In this proposal, we are committed to taking legislation a step further, where we are raising the biofuels we want to use, at the expense of what we do not want anymore. There are many concerns about palm oil. Palm oil-based biofuels are often more harmful to the climate than to fossil fuels. Although palm oil itself is not the problem, it is difficult to assure today that palm oil production does not penetrate rainforest. That is why we are taking a step in the right direction with today's proposals. This isn't the last time we're going to discuss biofuels in this room. Biofuels are a complicated field where we probably have to adjust the rate many times before we're at the finish line. The different considerations are many, and we cannot anticipate what the market will be like in the future. That is why, as elected representatives, we need to be alert for decisions to have unintended consequences and for the course to be readjusted. But it is important that the target is set and that there will be predictability for those who will invest in advanced biofuels. Then it is of the utmost importance that Norway is also a driving force towards the EU for legislation that provides room for the necessary instruments to promote sustainable biofuels and to unlock unsustainable biofuels. Too often, the interpretation of the EU directive places obstacles to the necessary biofuels instruments. This is problematic and suggests that we need both clarification and the necessary space for action. It is therefore positive that the government is given the task of assessing the scope of action we have for instruments, such as legislation and taxes, and getting back to Stortinget with this. This will provide the Storting with the necessary knowledge that will be important in the regulation of biofuels in Norway. Then I will address that proposal of the Christian People's Party is part of, and draw attention to the fact that distributed proposal No. 5 replaces proposal No. 3 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1497	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1502	I want to link some comments to the setting. I think we all agree that advanced biofuels in some form and context are becoming important in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the future. Some of us think of it in particular in the field of commercial transport and heavy transport, where it already plays an important role. Then we also have to go into the discussion about what the biofuel really is, and what it should be. From the centre party, what we're in on today's proposal is a follow-up to what we've also been in on earlier in another SV 8 proposal to get a palm oil-free biofuel. There is no secret that the Centre Party sees this in connection with the possibility, desire and importance of building a value chain also in Norway on one of the most sustainable biofuels available, namely Norwegian forest resources. To build a value chain on it requires, first of all, that you put some clear frameworks that everyone can relate to, and that you think in the long term. For this is not done overnight. Sick if Norway has large forest resources that can be exploited in a much better way than today — we have a harvest that can at least be increased by 50 pst. – it is not stated that we are able to do so without further delay. Processing the forest resources in an industrial value chain is a demanding but at the same time important work. That is why the Centre Party is in favour of these proposals today, which will mean that more emphasis and emphasis will be placed on sustainable biofuels, and that there is also a very clear signal that we do not want a palm oil-based biofuel. I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party raise the question of the free market and the free competition, but I have to say that there is a lot of environmental development in Norway and elsewhere that would not have happened if one were to refer to the free market and free competition at each crossroad. Sometimes you actually have to put your foot down for something you think is bad investment, and you also have to encourage and actively go in for what you think is important. In this case, the value chain is linked to Norwegian forest resources. If you keep pushing free markets and free competition in front of you, you won't get anywhere environmentally. It may not be surprising that the arguments around the EEA do not make such a very strong impression on the Centre Party. For us, there has been no problem that in this context we do not stick to the superlative, sacred EEA agreement, which is becoming increasingly skeptical to the point. I see that the Progress Party has gradually become skeptical of the EEA Agreement, if it is not seen in such cases as the one we are dealing with today. The centre party believes that there are sensible proposals that are promoted in today's position, and we are involved as the proposer in most of them. We also believe that the sails of the Right and the Advance Party are opponents of this today, they are going to come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1519	Biofuels are an essential instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and bringing them down quickly, and from the left we are very pleased with the policy pursued by the majority in this period. We have had a tightening of the sales requirement for biofuels – now we have reached 7 pst. – and we have an agreement that it should be up to 20 pst. towards 2020. In addition, we have removed the taxes on the biofuels traded in addition to the turnover requirement, which was introduced by the previous government. In turn, there is no user charge for biofuels in addition to the turnover requirement. What's the goal is not just to get the share of biofuels up, it's also about driving more advanced biofuels. I am also very pleased that this year is the first year that we have a separate target for advanced biofuels within the scope of the sales requirement. And we've reinforced what's the main thing, that's to keep a pressure on the zero-emission solutions -- to extend the benefits for electric cars, to have a strategy for fuel cell and hydrogen operation and the bet that lies there -- so that the transition to zero-emissions, which is what we want, goes as fast as possible. But in the meantime, we have to have biofuels. I look at this proposal as taking one step further towards getting a higher quality and stimulating advanced biofuels and getting a higher quality in the biofuels being traded. Now it is positive that all biofuels – both within the turnover requirement and outside – are already following EU sustainability criteria in Norway, but we also want to reduce the proportion of palm oil over time. Now palm oil as a product is not harmful in itself, but it is clear that the amount of palm oil consumed is a trigger for the felling of rainforest. This is one step in the right direction by supporting whether what the industry has already done by having industry standards. We support those who today choose not to have palm oil, and the Left wants an extension of it. Then, of course, we want to put orders where we can use biofuels without palm oil, and that's within the public domain. That's where the fight in this case is. For the left, it's important that we go on, that we use the tools we have. A lot of people are already doing it. You go to the public companies, like Router and others, they don't use biofuels with palm oil. We should definitely try to put this into the system, so that we get a comprehensive policy where the public goes one step further. We support the use of more advanced biofuels, and we will also reduce the use of palm oil until we are in a situation where sustainability criteria can be tightened across Europe and we will also develop an advanced biofuel production market in Norway. The left will support the vote and the one additional proposal put forward by a majority and presented today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1537	Thanks to the rapporteur for the glittering work and for the overall opposition, who manages to take a step further in ensuring a sensible, long-term and predictable biofuel policy. Since the Council of State considers that what we adopt may be contrary to the EEA Agreement, it is quite natural that he is following this issue up with the necessary clarifications from ESA. If we are to stop the most dangerous climate change, there is a need to switch from internal combustion engines to hydrogen or stream electric engines as fuel. More people are beginning to believe that such a transition can go faster than we had thought as late as just one year ago. In any case, fossil-free alternatives will be needed as long as combustion engines are available. State Council Vidar Helgesen, on the other hand, deserves no thanks, but on the contrary, the price of being the greatest double moralist in this matter. Few people have cried bigger crocodile tears because palm oil is used in Norwegian biofuels, but barely lifted a finger to do something about it. Let's go back in time. The Left and Christian People's Party is pushing the government to increase the marketing of biofuels in 2014. The government takes a change, but is forced to give up. Then, in the spring of 2016, it is revealed that PFAD, a palm oil that does not have to meet the sustainability criteria, has been approved by the authorities. SV proposed the day after three things: to reclassify PFAD so that it cannot be used to meet the marketing requirement, to ensure that only biofuels that are sustainable are used, and that all palm oil is phased out, and an industry agreement with the industry to ensure that they ensure palm oil-free fuel. Only then did the Council of State ensure that it did not allow PFAD by requiring that it be reclassified from the waste product to the by-product of palm oil production. But he said no to removing palm oil, he said no to ensure that all biofuels are going to meet sustainability criteria, and he said no to engage in dialogue with the industry to secure sustainable biofuels and biofuels that are not based on palm oil. It's paranoia. In the spring of 2017, a new disclosure came: PFAD had been sold in large quantities outside of the sales mandate because the Council of State had not ensured that sustainability requirements for all biofuels were met. In total, palm oil stood for 39 pst. of the biofuels sold in Norway in 2016, a significant proportion outside the sustainability criteria. All the increased demand for palm oil leads to increased deforestation in today's palm oil market, and I'm not, but the Environment Directorate's own reports say. Based on these, we can assume that the increase in emissions from rainforest is greater than the emissions cuts from the use of biofuels in Norway. So by not doing the job of throwing palm oil out of Norwegian biofuels, the Council of State has contributed to increasing greenhouse gas emissions in the world. The councils have palm oil on their hands. What was the reaction of the Council of State? Yes, he referred to the agreement in 2015 on the Dayrevy and said that when this was adopted, he was informed that not only sustainable fuels could be used. So here we have a state council that appears to be critical of the use of the PFAD, but in reality he refused to follow up on the unanimous decision of 2015, where we said that all biofuels should comply with sustainability criteria, because he believed that setting sustainability criteria for all biofuels, which were adopted unanimously, was contrary to the EEA Agreement. But it was without doing the job that one could expect from a councillor, without doing the job of contacting ESA in order to find out whether he had understood the regulation correctly, and if so, it was okay if we still demanded sustainability for all biofuels. Then PFAD had been out of the market. He also refused and thought it was wrong to demand palm oil-free biofuels in public tenders. He said no to consider a fee for palm oil. He said no to engage in dialogue with the industry again. What led to the use of PFAD in biofuels other than the placing on the market ban, namely the exemption from user charges, which he allegedly warned against, has been boasted by the representative Nikolai Astrup and his own State Secretary on radio and in other contexts to provide more biofuels. It's the bulk of the population that's been pushing for increased use of biofuels, it's the government that's been fighting all the escalation of the biofuel. It is therefore incomprehensible that Helgesen has refused to follow up to ensure that all biofuels are palm oil-free and sustainable. I would like to mention proposal No. 4, which the SV and the Greens have promoted in the vote. If we had introduced a fee on palm oil, as we propose, already for 2018, we would have the palm oil out of the biofuel immediately – overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1559	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1564	This debate confirms the agreement of the Stortinge on the basic framework for biofuels policy. We want a commitment to biofuels in Norway. We want to contribute to a predictable and secure framework for the industry. But we do not want biofuels to be traded that have a bad environmental impact. Everyone has realized that the scale of biofuel production we are now proposing to develop can lead to significant problems for food, for land and for biodiversity, especially for rainforests. The problem we are now facing is that the decisions taken by Stortinget in the last year and the signals sent to the market have been too little knowledge-based. It has weakened the predictability of the industry, and it has not least affected the reputation of the biofuels that we want people to use in Norway in the transition phase until everything is emission-free and electrical. The Greens have warned against this. We have supported the abolition of the biofuel tax. We have supported a gradual increase in the turnover requirement, but not the very rapid increase that has now been foreseen. In November 2016, we promoted a proposal for a revised biofuel escalation plan to ensure that Norway does not pursue a policy that stimulates the consumption of biofuels with very uncertain environmental and climate impacts. The decisions taken today are a necessary recognition that we have moved too fast, and that we need to adjust the price, both for environmental reasons and for the biofuels industry itself. Therefore, it is good for the majority to ask the government to make a new attempt to make the EU sustainability requirements applicable to all biofuels traded in Norway. It is good for the majority to ask the government to become a driver of an industry agreement for Norwegian biofuels to have a higher climate impact than the minimum EU standards. It is good for the majority to ask the government to find out how, among other things. a fee may be used to enhance sustainability. And it is good that it is decided not to make public purchases of biofuels based on palm oil. The Green Party sees that in the short term these decisions may be problematic for parts of the industry, but the situation is that a lot of palm oil on the Norwegian market is not sufficiently proven to be sustainable, and in a situation where increased use of palm oil can be the last nail in the chest of South East Asia rain forests, it is therefore necessary to take measures to ensure that we do not become a further contributor to this in Norway. In the Environmental Party of Greens, we are not fundamental opponents of using palm oil, but we are principled followers of using the precautionary principle as long as we are not sure that we can use palm oil that does not destroy the rain forest. Finally, I would like to point out that we are amazed that the Right, Left and Advance Party are voting against the proposal from the other parties for a big-scale notification on the framework conditions for Norwegian biofuel production by 2030. It is precisely the long-term idea of resources, if need be, of time scale, of new alternatives, not least Norwegian production to be phased in, that we need to see the whole and avoid collapsing once again in the biofuel investment in Norway. It is this Green Party that has long since been called for, and we wonder that the Right, Left, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party refuse to establish a support scheme for biofuels investments that can cover investment aid for pilot and demonstration projects in Norway, because it is precisely this kind of effort that we need to lift Norwegian companies as soon as possible as suppliers of the advanced biofuels all parties in the Grand Duchy seem to agree that we want as the dominant base for biofuels for the period to be used in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1575	Biofuels are part of the climate solution in the transport sector, but a good knowledge base is important to maximise biofuels that have a truly positive climate effect. Most biofuels sold in Norway today are conventional biofuels produced from food crops. So much as 40 pst. is produced from palm oil raw material. That's not good. Palm oil contributes to deforestation and therefore the global climate impact of palm oil is not positive, although most of it meets the EU sustainability criteria. I want to emphasise that there is hardly any government internationally working harder and more systematically than the Norwegian to ensure deforestation-free supply chains. We primarily interact with global consumer product companies to achieve this, and we want energy and fuel companies to join the commitments, among others. in the tropical forest alliance of deforestation-free supply chains. We are working for more stringent sustainability criteria in the EU and EEA. Today’s sustainability criteria do not include indirect land use change. So they don't take account of deforestation. Although most of the fuel today meets EU sustainability requirements, the requirements are not good enough. We are, as everyone knows, covered by the EEA Agreement under the general European internal market legislation. It also applies to biofuels. Therefore, the scope for action we have to set specific national requirements for which biofuels we are trading on the Norwegian market is limited. The proposal for a revised renewable directive, presented on 30 November last year, outlined by the European Commission that sustainability requirements should be tightened somewhat as from 1 January 2021. Our position is that this proposal is far from being good enough. Our position is that indirect land use changes should be fully taken into account in the sustainability criteria, and if we do not subsidiaryly have access to set additional national requirements, but that is not the situation today. The fuel reporting for 2016 has shown that the vast majority of the biofuels traded in Norway met EU sustainability requirements, and it is good that the fuel industry takes responsibility for complying with these requirements. I have contacted ESA to determine whether there is room for making EU sustainability requirements applicable to all biofuels traded in Norway, and I intend to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner after receiving a response. With regard to the establishment of an industry agreement requiring all sales of biofuels to be palm oil-free and having a higher climate effect than EU requirements, the harmonised EEA rules are also relevant. If the Norwegian authorities initiate such an industry standard, I believe that we are moving into a legal grey zone. However, industry is free to establish industry standards for biofuels, including one that excludes palm oil. We already see that some actors have taken such initiatives. Our new procurement code imposes higher requirements and provides greater flexibility for public purchasers to choose green solutions than the previous legislation did. Demanding eco-certification or eco-labels, making use of life-cycle costs, functional requirements, environment such as requirement specification or award criteria as well as different procurement methods can go a long way towards being an environmentally ambitious contracting entity within the regulatory framework. However, access is limited by cross-cutting competition considerations. The scope for regulatory action is uncertain in order to impose requirements on products that go beyond international standards. This is a very complex legal area and concerns Norway’s international obligations in both procurement and competition law and trade law. I would therefore like to take the initiative of a legal investigation to clarify the national space for action. It would also provide an important basis for Divi to guide users of the legislation. At the same time, we cannot expect today that the space for action is very large, given that we know the rules. It's important that we rely on international cooperation to get movement on these issues. I will therefore continue to address these issues at the political level of Nordic cooperation and also in Norway's dialogue with the EU. Finally, I would like to mention that the main priority of the government in terms of biofuels is to ensure real sustainability and the best possible climate impact. We have therefore introduced a higher sub-requirement for advanced biofuels this year, and we have a stepping-up plan to ensure both national and global good climate impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1601	I perceive in many ways that the Council of State here has taken over the majority that is in the Chamber for this, contrary to what the representative of the Progress Party has done. Some of the leading research environments in Norway, NTNU and CICERO point out that biofuels made from palm oil can lead to higher greenhouse gas emissions than fossil fuels if the extraction of palm oil leads to deforestation. So we know that emissions in Norway are going down a little bit. One of the reasons is that last year in Norway 175 million litres of biofuels were used on palm oil and PFAD. Does the Council of State feel that the important thing is that we see it in isolation, see it for ourselves and get emissions down nationally, or is it important that we in Norway contribute to reducing emissions globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1608	It is not new to me that biofuels sold so far in Norway and Europe have not had a positive global climate impact. I have known that for a long time, and there is some reason why someone will have registered that I have been at the restrained end of the scale in terms of proposals for escalation, and have received a lot of criticism, among other things. from representatives in this room to be in charge of detention. I am pleased that there is a greater focus now on not just the sustainability criteria of the EU, but on what is real sustainability, and that there is a need to tighten up EU sustainability criteria. As I said, we want them to take full advantage of the deforestation effects, and if they do not, we need to be able to impose stricter requirements nationally. It is our position, which we have communicated to the EU in the context of the revision of sustainability criteria. But we cannot break EEA legislation and international trade legislation on our own. That is why we need a closer legal assessment of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1613	In the letter from yesterday, the Council of State says the following in the third section, and it is also an answer to Korsberg: Palm oil contributes to deforestation and is thus problematic in relation to climate problems globally. - I agree. There is a considerable tension in this matter – and it’s just noticing – between the government’s representatives in Stortinget’s argumentation, and what the Council of State says. The council says very clearly that he has been at the critical end, and he has seen that palm oil is negative. But what strikes me in this case is: if it is that from the very beginning when he took over etc., so that palm oil has negative consequences – which I also see, and therefore has promoted a whole range of proposals on the possibility of getting it out of Norwegian biofuels – why has he not presented proposals that work in getting palm oil out of Norwegian biofuels, such as: a palm oil fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1618	It should be known both in this room and outside this room that I have been aware of the effects of palm oil and the total effects of biofuels, and it should also be reasonably clear that I am concerned that we should comply with laws and regulations, including the laws and rules adopted by the Stortinget from EU legislation. That is why I have always said – and many times from here in dialogue with the honourable representative Eidsvoll Holmås has underlined – that we are working for stricter sustainability criteria in the EU/EEA area. It will have more impact if we get an impact on it, and it will allow us to have rules that will provide better climate policies in Norway and in Europe without breaking the EEA legislation. I may be more concerned about breaking EEA rules than what Eidsvoll Holmås is doing, but I think he should think about it again, because it is the EU that now has to take the lead in climate policy internationally, and we should not distance ourselves from them in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1623	I have said earlier in this Chamber today that it seems that the Council of State is more concerned with the EU than with reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and the reply he just gave showed that. If the Council of State actually works towards the EU in order to count – as he says – all ILUC, i.e. indirect land-use change, it would mean that palm oil would be completely out. But what is so dangerous about Norway going ahead and taking care of it? Why does the Council of States think it is very good if the European Union did something, but that we must not go ahead in Norway for God's sake? Why has the Council of State and the Government not made a proposal to ensure, for example, that it does not do so? an increase in the fee on palm oil, which we have national authority to do, and which we can do just as much as we want? Why has he not made sure that the government does this, which would remove the palm oil overnight? The second is, why did the Council of State spend one year following the decision of the Storting to contact ESA to see if we could have sustainability criteria for absolutely all the palm oil being traded?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1630	The answer to the representative Holmås’s question is very simple: I give priority to working to change the law. I'm not giving priority to breaking the law. The EEA is the Norwegian law, adopted in this Chamber. That is why we must work to change that legislation, and that is what we are doing. We can't break it. It would lead us in confrontation with our closest partners in global climate policy. It would not give us greater influence, nor would it be in the process of achieving deforestation-free supply chains, and in order to bring indirect land-use change into the EU sustainability criteria. We should act in a manner that is responsible in an international context, both in the EEA context and in the WTO context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1635	I've never encouraged breaking the law. Otherwise, the Council of State did not answer the question of why he has not got the government to introduce a palm oil tax. That's what he leaped over. I have always said the same thing as the majority of the population in this case that we must provide sustainability criteria. Now the bulk of the population says: we need to use public procurement legislation to ensure that we get rid of palm oil in biofuels within the framework of EEA legislation. It's because I don't understand the Council of States, because the Council of State is looking at the hell on a bright day. When he says that some of what we do might be contrary to EEA law, the Council of States' response is: I sit down in my office and leave it to ask the EU if this would be contrary to EEA law. We, the bulk of the population, say instead, "Can't the Council of State contact ESA, then? What's wrong? Can he not contact ESA and see if it is possible to get to this? It is possible that my belief in the EU's willingness to take environmental considerations into account for people who want to do so is greater than that of the Council of States, but then he should correct his perception of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1647	I have some experience with what a harmonised EU/EEA legislation means. That means that I maintain that it is important to work to get better and more environmentally progressive legislation. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås has for a long time demanded that the government step up the use of biofuels, and has previously been less concerned with palm oil effects, while national policies from Norway – not least through the international forestry effort – demonstrate that in practice we are working more than anyone else to understand the need for deforestation-free supply chains. It is also of great importance in EU cooperation. We have authority in that question, which makes me believe that we can get through. It's not easy, but I definitely believe it's better to work with the systems, interacting with the EU processes, than to break the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1654	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1661	The Right Party and the Advance Party criticise the Workers' Party for turning this case around. You have to listen carefully when the Progress Party is talking about changing the position and being a wing party, because there's someone who can, it's them. We invited to a seminar in charge of the Committee and received clear messages from the leading research communities in Norway – NTNU, CICERO – that deforestation of the rainforest leads to higher emissions than other biofuels, and then we should not take this seriously and develop policies after that? The volume of palm oil has increased significantly since the last time we considered a representative proposal on palm oil-based fuel in this room. The issue is essentially relevant. Palm oil exists that is sustainable, but in an open market it is difficult for us to know whether imported palm oil into Norway has not contributed to deforestation. According to biofuel producers that I have been in contact with, there is no traceability down to plantations today. You can track it down to the refinery, and you're working on getting traceability in place for the mills. But this doesn't make me sure enough that the imported biofuels that are based on palm oil, that we put on the tank today, have not helped to deforestation the rain forest. We voted in favour of the offensive objective of the cooperation parties of 20 p.m. biofuels in 2020. It was also a decision that came over the table in budgetary negotiations without major investigations, which the representative Aarbergsbotten believes is important in this matter. But in our alternative state budget, we propose a slacker phase-in and a faster escalating of investments in Norwegian sustainable biofuel production on the road to the zero-emission society. No one in Norway today is building or creating jobs based on palm oil. What we are and will be good at in Norway is creating jobs that produce biofuels based on wood waste and other types of waste. And if there's someone we create uncertainty and unforeseeability for, it's the fuel chains. But there are also some fuel chains that believe that what we are doing today creates predictability for them. There are claims that we are jeopardizing the EEA Agreement. We are asking for negotiations to take place to establish the EEA Agreement and to engage in dialogue with ESA. That's not the same thing as putting an appointment into a game. We believe there has been a lack of dialogue with ESA over a long time at this point. The Storting has asked for dialogue. The council says he's waiting for an answer. We've been waiting a long time, and we look forward to hearing what ESA's answer is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1676	When I heard the line change between the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and the councillor, I felt committed to a duckam, and therefore I would like to say a little bit. But first of all, what also in itself made me want to say something was that it ‘contributes to deforestation’, on which the case-rapporteur was involved. There's a lot that contributes to pollution and everything. What must be central is sustainability, traceability, certification and perhaps international cooperation, because we are a small country in the world. I've been to Malaysia a couple of times and I've looked at palm oil plantations that operate according to sustainable principles. In fact, we have to respect that for Malaysia palm oil is the same as the North Sea oil is for us, and discuss the matter with the seriousness that is then required. This is a symbolic day to discuss such a matter, which is going on in international cooperation. Yesterday, we saw Trump withdrawing the United States from extensive climate cooperation in the world, and that day, in particular, the Workers' Party is finding it possible to withdraw from close cooperation with the EU in such a central area as to define this. I think it's pretty amazing that you're going on a collision course with the EU in that area. I am a Vice-Chairman of the EFTA delegation and I am quite concerned that we should achieve some results in most areas, we must cooperate with the EU, and that is also true in this area. A world where you pull out, whether in one direction or another, if you don't get it exactly what you want, neither climate, trade, nor international cooperation is earned, and it's basically the overall problem I see here. WTO rules are central to compliance with international trade. And the Council of State here – and I noticed that the rapporteur from the Labour Party had a statement of case in his opening speech – that you might come back to it. But too small Norway to start turning its back on the EU in such cooperation and believing that it should be even more tightened up, I think it is simply not the solution. I think you simply hurt the matter that way, and that is why I wanted to make an article. Because there is some area in which we need to cooperate with the world around us, it is in this area, and then we need to focus on sustainability, on traceability and on driving according to the international rules set by the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1691	It is not often heard such thin explanations as the representative Anna Ljunggren is included in this case. I think it's quite obvious to everyone that the proposal they have submitted has not been thoroughly thought through, and then you're revealed in terms of the legal and EEA agreement, and then you're talking about something completely different. They say you take this thing one step further. So breaking the law is just going one step further. I think that, with respect to reporting, is a rather thin explanation, and whether this is contrary to the EEA agreement or not, I think the representative Marit Arnstad said it was really quite good, that humiliating, it is a breach of the EEA agreement, doesn't mean so much to the Central Party. It shows that you obviously have a completely different view of this matter. The representative of Gundersen had, I think, a very good point when he referred to what Trump did yesterday, and what the Stortinge – the majority of the Storinge – is going to do today, namely break international agreements. It is through international work, as the Council of State Helgesen correctly points out, that results are obtained. You also have obligations, you have agreements, but above all, international cooperation is the most important thing. I don't think you really disagree, I think everyone wants to get biofuels and palm oil at the right level, but the procedure is obviously totally disagreeable. For some people it's urgent, just to get it done fast enough, it's the most important thing. And maybe you can get a little bit into this in the campaign, and then you get to take the bill over the fall, when that time comes. I think this is a disappointing day for the Storting, when the Storting is warning, looking at the strongest, as the Storting is, that what is being done in the form of a decision is breaking. So again, I recommend to the proposers to turn it into a transmission proposal, because the intention of the proposal is quite clear, but the government must have the opportunity to deal with it properly. So it's an operational proposal, just so you're aware of it. Otherwise, I notice that the representative Heikki Holmås has left the hall and has not answered my question. It wasn't surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1702	I want to start with what Mr Korsberg concluded by saying that today is a disappointing day because we – the majority in this Chamber – adopt what we adopt on biofuels. It is more disappointing today to see Trump withdrawing the United States from the Paris agreement than there is an offensive environmental policy, climate policy, in this room. It was Gunnar Gundersen's representative who made me speak, because he believes that we should be very careful to put in place arrangements that might be contrary to international agreements. Yes, we have a higher CO 2 tax in Norway compared to the EU, we have a higher recycling rate in Norway than in the EU, and we have a mortgage on bottles in Norway – the bottles do not lie in nature. We have strict demands for that. It is not European policy. I believe that this is about getting new knowledge, taking new knowledge seriously, and we are developing policies in line with what we are doing. We know that significantly more biofuels are being used in Norway based on palm oil and PFAD now than in the past — last year, 175 million litres. It's a strong growth. Consumption is estimated to be 35 times higher than Norway’s consumption of palm oil for food. It is a European trend, and we in Norway must go ahead in this respect. Mr Korsberg said in his first speech that we should have had a time limit in our proposal when we were first to promote it. I do not think the representative should worry so much about the fact that there is no deadline in this proposal – all the time it is most likely to be a new government from the harvest of which to make this regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1716	I would also like to make some comments on the proposal that came a little bit to mind when dealing with this matter. This is a proposal for which no questions were asked to the Ministry about the consequences. That was precisely why the council felt it had to send a letter to the Stortinge to warn on the strongest. It's quite unusual. Actually, it's a little strange that I'm surprised that the Workers' Party is angled in this case, because the Workers' Party has a rather long tradition of waving in matters that deal with biofuels. And even though it's now eight years ago, we probably remember all the big discussion when the Workers' Party waved back in 2009. Then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg went in to increase the tax on biodiesel. After a lot of noise, it ended with the Workers' Party turning the case upside down. We have heard today again how the Workers' Party has turned its position on biofuels from October last year. The fact that the Workers' Party does not know what to think about biofuels is starting to be more the rule than the exception in these debates. That the Workers' Party is not primarily a problem for me or for the Workers' Party, but it is a problem for an industry that changes its framework conditions about every six months. It is not a responsible policy, and it is not fair to those who want to invest in this sector to contribute to the achievement of the objectives set by politicians. But you don't have to listen to me about this, you can listen to the industry actors themselves, like for example. Eco-1, who sent a letter to the entire committee last night, when it became known that this solution to the proposal came in this case. They write in their letter: ‘This Decision may, pending the BEST: [[fossil fuel]] We ask the Stortinget to ensure a predictable and offensive commitment to traceable and sustainable biofuels. Our clear recommendation is that Norway should follow the guidelines set by the EU for sustainable biofuels to ensure that products are available at all times to a market with high potential in the coming years.’ I wish we could listen to the industry, for once, and now put the stable framework conditions they need in order to build a market here in Norway. There is also no disagreement about the intention of the proposal as, among other things, The working party here is promoting: we're all concerned with sustainability, we're all concerned with real climate gas cuts. But the debate we have had here today is not an example of that. It is just an example of little thoughtful policy, and – once again – on frameworks that are unlucky.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1734	The use of biofuels is not an end in itself. The use of biofuels is an instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and when the use of biofuels leads to the opposite, it is a poor use of a climate policy instrument. It does something about environmental credibility when, on the one hand, we ask people to use biofuels, while you read that this is the use of palm oil. It is a huge paradox that Norwegian consumers have been among the world's leading consumers to get palm oil out of Norwegian shops, while politicians are helping us to get palm oil on the tank. I hear the rather aggressive speeches from the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party. Then I have to remind them that this also applies to their good friends in the Left and Christian People's Party, who are wholeheartedly behind the proposals that we are discussing today, and it is in this way as strong an attack on them as it is on the Workers' Party. Here all of the pieces of the opposition stand together. It is the Right and the Advance Party that once again is an extreme point in climate policy. We hear that many ask that we have good framework conditions. I have to remind you again of what Anna Ljunggren said in his post, that there are no Norwegian nutritionists operating with palm oil, but I am also a supporter of getting more stable framework conditions. That's exactly why it's very strange that there's a huge majority today, with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, who are voting against getting a big message that's just about this, and that could give good and proper framework conditions for this industry. It's amazing to hear the speeches from Gunnar Gundersen and Øyvind Korsberg, who talk about this being like doing as Donald Trump does – reporting us out of the international work. There is nothing in the decisions we are making today that reports Norway out of anything. We're going to stand the same load and break behind everything we're going to do internationally. I pay tribute to everything that Vidar Helgesen may want to do internationally to influence the European Union, but that does not prevent us from having a debate on what to do here at home in Norway – whether it is the charging policy or whether it is the tendering regulation we are going to have here in Norway. I have to end by saying that's a pretty cracking argument we hear. At first we heard the post from the Right, Torhild Aarbergsbotten, who argued that this was not a problem at all. Then we heard Vidar Helgesen come and say that he is among those who are very critical and believe that the Storting has gone too far, and that he is far on the way sharing the criticism that the opposition comes with. One would think that the Right should be able to find at least a unified argument. Finally, today is really a very good day for climate policy here in Norway. In the previous case, we got a climate law, and in this case, the majority of the population are prepared to take another step, a new initiative on how to conduct climate policy here at home in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1765	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1774	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. The amendments proposed by the Water Resource Act and the Soil Act are a follow-up to previous decisions and amendments aimed at simplifying and updating legislation. A unanimous committee supports the proposal to legislate on a similar provision to that of the Law on Salmonidae and Inland Fish. [[Lax and Inland Fish Act]] I am also pleased that there is full agreement that there is a need for more sustainable groundwater management as a result of social development and an increasing pressure on groundwater resources. There is now a legal obligation to take care of groundwater in accordance with the care of watercourses. Any person shall be required to act with care to avoid damage to or disadvantage to groundwater for public or private interests. The watercraft authorities may impose corrections where circumstances are found to be contrary to the law or to decisions taken in accordance with the law. The imposition is subject to applicable administrative practice. Here I would like to point out that there has been a sorry error that changes the meaning very much. That is to say, on page 3, in point 2.1, last paragraph, where it shall be stated that the watercourse authority may ‘apply’ and not ‘applyable’. This is a significant clarification as to who is to be charged and who is to be carried out, and I ask that it be corrected. A large majority of the Committee also considers it appropriate to introduce a concession obligation for groundwater measures which may have a significant impact on the general interest, on the same assessment theme as the concession obligation for water-resource measures under Section 8 of the Water Resource Act – this in order to ensure the maintenance of both the quality and quantity of the groundwater storage capacity. The proposal to empower municipalities to take decisions on the concession of up to 1 MW hydropower plants under the Water Resource Act is somewhat more controversial. A majority here in Stortinget today support the proposal, which has been announced both in the energy communication and as part of the municipal reform to give municipalities more tasks. We have noticed that there have been no arguments against the municipal authorities having to transfer more tasks, but questions have been asked about whether the municipalities have the necessary professional competence to ensure the quality of the decisions. Since the maximum level of applications proposed for transfers is set at 1 MW, as well as exemptions where necessary to ensure national considerations, the proposed competence for decisions will relate only to small-effect development with few complications. There is reason to clarify that the exemptions from the matters to be transferred are included in the regulation and that the NVE remains the supervisory authority during the operational phase and for the fulfilment of the safety requirements under the dam safety regulation. As the last amendment, the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Soil Act is proposed, which is now subject to legal uncertainty and which may give rise to different understanding and inefficient treatment of matters with concessions under energy and watercourse legislation. The majority of the committee sees the need for a simpler and more predictable process for action holders, and sees it appropriate that the third paragraph of Section 2 of the Land Act be amended, so that the prohibition of redeployment under Section 9 and the consent requirements for division under Section 12 shall not apply to measures with concession under the Energy Act § 3-1, the Water Resource Act or the Waterways Regulations Act. The proposed changes also remove doubt as to the scope of the current provision for watercourse and energy installations. It should be noted that agricultural and soil protection considerations are to be identified by impact assessments and applications and will therefore be assessed in the concession treatment. With these proposals for changes, we contribute to a clearer and more effective lawmaking, and we take better care of groundwater resources for the best possible use for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1795	The working party is behind most of the settings. I just want to draw attention to a relationship. It is a majority of the committee that does not support the proposals for amendments to the Water Resource Act § 64, second paragraph, which gives municipalities the concession authority for hydropower plants of up to 1 MW. There are a number of hearing bodies that are critical of this. As we are talking about a few issues here, it is not realistic for municipalities to develop the necessary professional skills to be able to deal with them properly under the Water Resource Act. Then the municipalities have to take care of themselves in other ways. It is unrealistic to expect that the municipalities have the skills they need. Then I don't see that such a change in the law as is proposed here should be some simplification. Nor can I see that this in any way strengthens local democracy. I rather believe that this is an impractical change, which will work against its purpose. It is against the background that the Workers' Party opposes this change. Then we will ask for the following: since this change is within the scope of the proposal for a decision, we ask that voting be organised in such a way that the Labour Party and the parties which make up the majority of the committee are given the opportunity to vote against this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1802	I take the floor to justify some of the proposals that the Central Party has in the matter, not so many, but in a few areas. The Central Party supports the wish of the actual majority for municipalities to: power to take decisions on small power plants, up to 1 MW. We are also of the opinion that the vast majority of these developments will be uncomplicated and will not pose any specific challenges, and to the extent that this would pose some challenges, the role of NVE as a professional body could still be able to draw on it in terms of both development, safety requirements and the operational phase. The centre party therefore supports this and considers that there is a reasonable decentralisation of authority. The centre party has its own proposal relating to irrigation. We are not obliged to take care of measures that affect groundwater, but we believe that we need to adapt legislation so that it does not prevent general agricultural and forestry activities and that one does not impose new barriers to that type of activity. Therefore, we propose an exception similar to that contained in Section 8 of the Pollution Act – Proposal No. One from the Center Party. In addition, we are opposed to the amendment proposed to grant exemptions related to the laws of the land. We believe that there has already been a derogation from the laws of the land that makes it a risk of being eroded, and we have noticed that very many of the hearing bodies were also critical of granting such a type of derogation. So we don't think there's any basis for doing that. In this context, I would like to remind you that in recent years, the Stortinget has tightened up the requirements, and what we want, in terms of soil protection. That one has chosen to extend the exceptions to Section 2 of the Land Law, we seem unlucky. The centre party will therefore vote against II in the setting. With that, I take up the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1817	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1822	The rapporteur has explained well the content of this proposal, and I would like to thank the Committee on Energy and the Environment for its work on these amendments. There are relatively small changes, but two of the proposals contain substantive value in the sense that good resource management is being introduced for our groundwater resource. To the last post from the pulpit here, from the centre party, I would like to stress that we are still maintaining the concession exemption that applies to groundwater for our own use, including livestock, for landowners. It is necessary to limit the obligation to notify. In our view, it has to be equal to everyone and is set to 100 m3 per day. It will then be fully possible for the authorities to decide that this does not entail a concession obligation, because it will only occur when groundwater is removed or otherwise affected, where the measure will cause significant damage or disadvantage to the public interest, and will become an assessment case in each individual measure. However, all must be treated equally, whether in agriculture or otherwise exploiting this groundwater resource, whether it is self-employed or private. This is the second proposal with real content: dealing with the smaller hydropower cases. Here there will be a majority in this room to delegate power for all hydroelectric items below 1 MW power to the municipalities. It's delegating authority, it's letting the people make the decision where the action takes place, and it's in good spirit with this government. We are happy to receive support in Stortingen for that change. The last two proposals discussed in this matter are, in fact, just a follow-up to the Storting's wish to ensure protection of the wild species also in the water resource law. It was introduced and followed up on a change in the law in this case. In addition, we believe it is right to simplify the law on soil, so that double processes, both under the law of the soil and under the legislation on concessions in energy and watercourse legislation, are not carried out, when there are measures that are dealt with below. I stress that the agricultural authorities will continue to be part of the proceedings at least one of the hearings relating to the concession procedure and that the agricultural authorities will continue to have the right to object, so that the interests of soil protection are properly safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1835	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Case No. 8–12 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that these cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1898	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 8-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1922	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5-8, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, by Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10-12, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to start work to wind up the au pair scheme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1966	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to propose a new system for real cultural exchanges to replace the au pair system.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e1983	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the ratification of ILO Convention No 189 on Services at Home and to come back with a case to Stortinget.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2000	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate whether the laws of the day provide sufficient grounds for punishing those who misuse the situation of foreigners in an improper manner.’ The Green Party and the Socialist Left have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2017	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose that the au pairer's residence permit be linked to the au pairer and not to the host family.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act in order to penalise the person who exploits the situation of foreigners in an improper manner.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2042	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that families are not allowed to receive au pair if a family member has been penalised or a special reaction to circumstances that could lead to imprisonment for acts against an au pair.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that host families who violate laws or regulations designed to protect au pairs may lose the right to have au pair forever.’ The Labour Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposals. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2066	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose that a police record be presented in order to become a host family for an au pair, and to assess what conditions should lead to the possibility of becoming a host family for the sake of au pair security.’ The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2083	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party «The government asks the government to propose that the au pairs be protected by the Working Environment Act in the hours they work.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2100	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the options for decisions on exclusion from the possibility of having au pair from one, three and five years to two, five and ten years respectively.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the protection against dismissal of the au pair be strengthened by clarifying the ‘substantial reason’ of the contract.’ The centre party has notified subsidized aid. The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2124	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to secure financial support at least at the same level as the previous support to the Norwegian People’s Aid Centre to a similar au pair centre. The centre shall provide guidance and support au pairs until the au pair arrangements are terminated.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2141	Proposal No. 13, which was adopted at the time of the previous vote, was promoted as a replacement for suspension I, and you will therefore lapse. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2165	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by André N. Skkelstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Christian People's Party, Left and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the liquidation of child imprisonment in the context of the transport of children under the Foreign Affairs Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the imprisonment of lone minor asylum seekers in the context of out-of-car transport.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2191	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals on alternatives to imprisoning children in the context of transportation under the Foreign Affairs Act.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2224	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 by the Greens. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Act on Citizenship Chapter 5, Section 26, with a view to allowing the authorities to withdraw citizenship only in the case of individuals who have seriously damaged the vital interests of the State, as provided for in the 1997 Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a time-limited amnesty to correct previously incorrect provided identity information to the authorities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2255	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the relationship with the Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship of 1997 and the consequences of changing the rules so that citizenship can be revoked only when individuals have damaged the vital interests of the State.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the Act on Citizenship which provide for the possibility of acquiring dual citizenship. The rules on withdrawal, the requirements for the settlement of other citizenships and the loss of citizenship must be adapted to this new principle.’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2295	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 3-14, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 15–17, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 18-20, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 18-20, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘Section 1 Purpose is replaced by the following: The law shall ensure the implementation of Norway’s climate objectives as part of the transition to a low-carbon society in Norway by 2050. The law shall promote transparency and public debate on the status, direction and progress of this work. The last paragraph of Section 1 is deleted’. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘§ 3 Climate Change Goals 2030, is replaced by the following: The objective shall be to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions by at least 60 per cent by 2030 from the reference year 1990.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘§ 4 Climate Change Goals 2050, is replaced by the following: The objective shall be for Norway to become a low-carbon society by 2050. A low-carbon society means a society in which, on the best scientific basis, national greenhouse gas emissions are reduced in order to counteract the harmful effects of global warming as described in the Paris Agreement on 12 December 2015 Article 2(2). 1 letter a. The objective shall be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by 95 to 100 per cent from the level of emissions in the reference year 1990.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2347	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–17, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘Section 1 Purpose, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Act shall promote the implementation of Norway’s climate objectives as part of the transition to a zero-emission society in Norway in 2050.’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: § 4 Climate targets for 2050, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: The objective shall be for Norway to become a zero-emission society by 2050. With zero-emission society [[...]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘§ 5 Every five years review of climate targets, the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: «low-emission society» shall be replaced by «zero-emission society»;’;» The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2382	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 7, 8, 10, 13 and 14, of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘§ 3 Climate targets for 2030, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: The objective shall be for Norway to be climate-neutral in 2030, i.e. for Norway to implement climate change mitigation efforts for emissions in other countries at least equivalent to the total greenhouse gas emissions from Norway.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Section 3(a) is replaced by the following: Climate Change Goals for 2020 The national climate emissions in Norway shall not exceed 46,4 to 48,4 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent, excluding forest uptake.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘New Section 3b is replaced by the following: Climate targets for 2040 The objective shall be to end all fossil use of energy by 2040.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘New Section 7 is replaced by the following: Impact on Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions When preparing issues submitted to the Stortinget, the economic and administrative implications as well as the impact on Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions shall be explained.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the impact of the law after two years and report to the Storting on the functioning and effectiveness of the law, in particular with regard to the reduction of greenhouse gases.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘New Section 5b is replaced by the following: Climate Change Council In order to ensure the best possible decision-making basis for the achievement of the climate objectives, an independent Climate Council shall be established to deliver its recommendation on the objective to be set under Section 5 and to advise on how the climate objective can be achieved, in accordance with the first subparagraph of Section 6, point (a), including clarifying the emission impacts of different measures and instruments. The King shall lay down detailed rules concerning the appointment, composition and form of work of the Council.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2452	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘§ 6 The annual presentation of the Storting, new point (e) is replaced by the following: e) a report on how the government has carried out tripartite cooperation, social dialogue and civil society participation in the implementation of the climate objectives set out in this Act. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘§ 6 The annual presentation of the Storting, point (c) of the second subparagraph, shall be replaced by the following: in the quota and non-quota sectors: [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2586	Alternatively, the third paragraph of Section 1 of Section 4, second paragraph, Section 5, Section 6, first paragraph, point (a) and point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 6 and the proposals No. 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 12, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Section 5 The review of climate targets every five years, the third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Climate targets shall be compatible with Norway’s national contribution under the Paris Agreement of 12 December 2015. In exceptional cases, if targets are not achieved at national level, it may be opened up for smaller parts of the emissions obligations to be achieved jointly with the EU. The king shall lay down detailed rules to that effect.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: § 4 Climate targets for 2050, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: The objective shall be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by 95 to 100 per cent from the level of emissions in the reference year 1990. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Section 1 the following new third paragraph is added: The law shall be interpreted strictly as a follow-up to the Basic Law § 112.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘Section 5 The review of climate targets every five years is replaced by the following: Review and strengthening of climate objectives every five years In order to promote migration to a low-carbon society, see: § 4, the Government shall present up-to-date climate targets for the Storting in the context of the submission of the State budget and the corresponding annual statement of the climate objectives in 2018 and every five years thereafter. These shall: a. use the best scientific basis; b. be in line with Norway’s commitments under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change; c. involve progress from previous targets and ensure gradual transition towards the climate targets in 2020, 2030 and 2050; d. be sectoral, numerical and measurable; e. is defined as a ceiling on how much emissions Norway can have in the next five-year period and twelve-year period f. include sectoral action plans for all emissions in Norwegian territory. As a basis for strengthened climate targets presented by the government for the next four-year period, the Climate Council shall provide an assessment of the achievement of the objectives of climate policy by the end of each five-year period.’;» [[compensate new § 7]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘§ 6 Annual presentation of the Stortinget, point (a) Climate Change Goal 2030 is replaced by the following: a. how Norway will achieve the climate objectives referred to in Sections 3 to 5’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘Section 6, point (c) is replaced by the following: c. A carbon budget showing emission paths in all sectors and what measures the government will take to realise them, as well as an overview of actions in cooperation with the EU.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2662	It goes over the rest of A. The left has announced that they now support § 6, second paragraph, point a subsidiary. The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2674	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2684	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government is asked to set up a technical estimation committee in the climate field. The work of the Technical Calculation Committee shall be managed by the Environment Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2695	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2749	The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2761	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2775	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2784	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Anna Ljungren on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Anna Ljungreng on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 4, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 5, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a palm oil levy to be paid by the government on proposals for the 2018 government budget, with a view to introducing it during 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2814	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure a seamless aid scheme for biofuels investments covering investment aid for pilot and demonstration projects and industrial scale scale-up under Enova’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2829	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During 2018, the government is asked to provide a comprehensive report on the framework conditions for Norwegian biofuel production by 2030, with the aim of triggering as quickly as possible a growth in domestic production of advanced biofuels based on forest resources.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2844	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to require, by means of a regulation of the Law of Public Acquisitions, that biofuels based on palm oil or palm oil by-products should not be used. The amendment shall enter into force as soon as possible.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2879	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2906	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party. There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Chapter 8, the fourth paragraph of Section 43a is replaced by the following: Normal agricultural and forestry operations shall not be restricted by virtue of the rules laid down in the second and third subparagraphs.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e2926	The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3138	Alternatively, the fourth paragraph of Section 45 and proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 45, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: A landowner may take groundwater for domestic, irrigation and livestock on the property without a concession. For landowners, notification obligations shall be triggered if the annual groundwater extraction exceeds 100 m 3 per day on average.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3160	It is voted on in the second paragraph of Section 64. The Labour Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3174	It shall be counted against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3187	The rest of the I and the III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3199	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3209	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3218	Case No. 8–12 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts. 87-91. There are no proposals for comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-02.ana.ud575e3279	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – The meeting has been cancelled, and we want each other to have a good pink.
