ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e47	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Left-wing Group to the representative of Carl-Erik Grimstad on 19 and 20 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kari-Lise Rørvik, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e67	Kari-Lise Rørvik is present and will take the seat. The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e74	On behalf of Solfrid Lerbreck and myself, I would like to propose a representative proposal for the continuation and extension of procedures for closer follow-up in case of sick leave and self-announcement in case of illness for up to one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e79	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e84	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose changes to the penal code with a view to defining rape as sexual intercourse without genuine consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e89	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e94	On behalf of Jenny Klinge, Ivar Odnes, Per Olaf Lundtegen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on measures to improve and simplify patient travel arrangements and secure defenceless taxi transport for patients in charge of healthcare professionals. So I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of Emilie Enger Mehl, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself on a public issue, NOW, on Norwegian drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e101	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e109	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Mr Schou is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e131	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and government 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that — within the allocated speaking time — a sequence change be made of up to eight lines with replies from members of the Government and five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e144	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good piece of work on the budget, and also the Council of State. The aim of health policy must be to have the best possible health experience in life. For the Christian People's Party, the struggle is therefore often about more children, young people and families having to get the help they need when they really need it. Prevention brings great benefits to this group. That's why the Christian People's Party is incredibly concerned with smoking, alcohol, fat and sugar, and getting this group in greater activity, because there's so much health to pick up for children and young people. This means that, in the future, we may be able to provide more young people with better health when they grow up, spending more money on prevention than on treatment. It is a good social policy, and not least it is a good policy for individuals. Unfortunately, not all children and young people get the best childhood, or they just end up on the wrong side of life. Some experience that parents or other adults fail, yes, until they fail, so that they are subjected to violence and abuse – their value becomes a means and not a intrinsic value. Many lives are destroyed for the rest of their lives. Then it's important for the Christian People's Party that there are several adults who see, and that there are several adults who don't just see, but do something for exactly these kids. Therefore, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to give priority to more people working in health centres, in the school health service, to the fact that there are more teachers in the classes, that there is a good plan to find and treat children with mental disorders. Other kids and young people fall outside despite the fact that there are good offers around them, not because they have not received help, but they fall into the wrong environment, and they find out that intoxication is what gives them the satisfaction they want. For the Christian People's Party, it's a challenge that we see many of them around us being ruined. We feel powerless, many times, in the face of the iron grip of the Russians, especially about children and young people, because the power of the Russians is so great. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to have money for treatment, follow-up and post-protection of that particular group. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we've got an obliging escalation plan for the drug field, and that's this group of people's Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that the big money goes to, those who need it the most. Some have been doing drugs for many, many years: non-profit organisations, which the Christian People's Party has been concerned with getting earmarked funds, so that we show that they are involved and constitute a holistic drug treatment in addition to hospitals and community health services, not just for those they are occupied with, but for society. In the future, we must, after all, make sure that prevention against drugs is at the centre, that people feel that they are being cared for both as young people and as young people. It will be cheaper for society — whether it be for physical diseases, mental illness or other existing needs — to be able to prevent more than we are dealing with. This means that hospitals and community health services must be rigged for the future with enough staff, with staff able to meet the needs that exist — whether they are called nurses, doctors or other professional groups. With regard to the long-term, the Health Committee, together with the Education Committee, should ensure that we have sufficient health professionals in the future to contribute to both prevention, treatment and after-care. So we're going to get more money for the heads that we add to our health budget. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e168	First of all, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party so much for the fact that the party on a case-by-case basis now stands together with us red-green and prevents bad politics from the sitting government. Today's newspaper says about Erna's ten lost battles. It's good journalism, but I understand that it's not that easy for the journalist to bring with him absolutely all the defeat, at the pace that this is currently going on. Thank you to the Christian People's Party for what they have done to stop transferring resources to the municipalities. Today it is about health centres and school health services, where it is about transferring treatment of somatic and mental cases, which could really go beyond the prevention work of health centres and school health services. Is the representative of the Christian People's Party fully in agreement with me that this must now be laid dead and powerless, as it is from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e177	The great thing about being a center party is that we can take the best out of politics, whether it's from the right or the left of Norwegian politics. In the case of aids, the Christian People's Party is concerned that users should receive the services they need in one place. That's what we think we have to be in a specialised place, because the tools are so specialised, and we have to make sure that you get equal help across the country. In the case of health centres, the Christian People's Party is genuinely concerned with the preventive part there. If you want to think that you should have both treatment and prevention at the same place, it requires a completely different approach from what we have in health centres today. That's why the Christian People's Party thinks we're negative to that part, as it exists now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e184	I also have a tip for the Christian People's Party, because I have found an area where it is actually an icelet of improvement potential at the party of Bollestad. In the case of the investment grant to nursing homes and care facilities, where the government is to phase out the grant for rehabilitation. There are many great rehabilitation projects and modernisation that are smart for many reasons that are in progress. Will the Christian People's Party at first break out of this more or less self-selected fold, and be with us to stop the phasing out of these subsidies, which worry a lot of municipalities? I believe that the least of our elderly caregivers can expect from rich Norway is that we can rehabilitate, and that the state thus contributes to ensuring them good housing to be in their older years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e189	First, I want to boast to the government about the efforts that have been made in this period in both rehabilitation and construction of new hospitals, because there has been a lot of work done. That being said, the Christian People's Party is incredibly concerned that it will be a bad social investment not to care for the nursing homes that are already built, for technology and other ways to drive will make one have to have decent construction at all times. That's why the Christian People's Party thinks it has to be important to invest in new things, but it's also a management responsibility to take care of the buildings we have, so that they are modern at all times, so that our older people get the help they need at all times. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e194	I think we should go from creepy embraces to real boast. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bollestad, for the incredible commitment she has shown to those who have the heaviest, to those who sit at the bottom of the table. I would like to ask the representative of Bollestad if she shares the Right's view that even the weakest patients, the papers, those who have nothing, will have the same freedom of choice when they get treatment, like everyone else. Is it as important for the patient group as for others that they can choose between different alternative treatments and sites?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e201	Those who have met and been close to Ruspacents know how important it is that you have to be mindful that where you choose to get treatment, you have confidence. I think it's important that patients are allowed to choose. But then it is also important for the Christian People's Party to say that it must not only be within the specialist health service to which it has always been shown, but that there will also be other treatment sites that are not covered by reimbursement schemes today, which means that many do not have a real choice. This applies in particular to non-profit organisations, which show good results, but which as a society have not allowed patients to choose. The Christian People's Party thinks that we should participate and look at freedom of choice, but we must include more treatment options in that freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e206	Yesterday, Health Bergen had the board meeting, and then the Haukeland bank was cut through against the votes of those added. 50 hospital beds are removed, more than 200 people have to change jobs, and Jobfast, which is the only treatment available in the country for alerts, is dropped. The Christian People's Party is responsible for the hospital budget in the country, and I want to ask the representative if the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the situation that is out in hospitals, and whether she is happy that Jobfast is now being laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e212	I'll start with the last one. The Christian People's Party stands together with the Center Party in a note about Jobfast. We believe that having good warning procedures and helping those who warn is central. In the comment, we recommend that there should be such an offer, and then it is up to the entity to give priority to this. It is the corporate model that the Stortinget has chosen here and that the Christian People's Party initially does not agree to be governing Norway. In the case of the hospital budget, the Christian People's Party would wish that we had had even more room for action. But when said, things also have to change in hospitals, because hospital treatment changes – there is more day surgery, more day care, more outpatient work. But that doesn't mean that people are going to jump more and patients feel that they're actually almost more of a liability than they deserve the place in hospitals. So I become like Ole Brumm before Christmas and say yes, thanks, both.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e219	Christian People's Party and SV share the commitment of those who labor the most in society. We often talk about treatment in the Health Committee, but I want to ask about those who are being treated. In mental health protection, it's blown up today. The thing that wears, tells us, is that they have to get very, very sick to be admitted, get help, get out again and wait until they get very sick and get big problems, before they get help again. It creates a jojo effect that is very uncomfortable for those involved, and that costs society a lot of resources because they have to be so very seriously ill before they get help. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, SV proposes 40 new user-guided beds in mental health protection, where those who are ill can take care of themselves. The results show that it provides great economic savings and power in their own everyday lives for those who are ill, while they need treatment. I understand that the Christian People's Party is now in a budgetary settlement, but will the Christian People's Party for the rest of the period be with SV and work for more user-driven beds in the field of mental health protection and also evaluate it in the field of drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e228	First, I want to say that I strongly share the commitment of the representative. I've lived with a mother who was mentally ill, so I know a lot about having user-controlled beds. That being said, we know that user-controlled beds were something that started at the Jären, in a psychiatric department, with great luck, and I think it's something that every psychiatric institution has to consider whether to facilitate more. One thing is that it's socialistic, but it's incredibly hard for the individual not to get the security and help when he needs it. Therefore, user-controlled beds become an important treatment for them to live with their mental illness: knowing that the day it is extra heavy or the anxiety is too great, they have a chance, a security they can use. I think that'll be the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e233	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e238	The aim of the Workers' Party is a society that promotes good health and quality of life for all, which prevents disease and provides opportunities to live a good life regardless of the background. Fortunately, many are healthy and live a good life in Norway. But many of us need healthcare, and as a society we all need. That's why we have to create a society that keeps people healthy. It is important to maintain well-being, and it is an expression of the values on which our country is built, namely community and solidarity. The future presents a picture of altered demography — several older people who live longer and get more healthy years, but also an increasing need for care and a more complex picture of illness for those who get sick. Serious illness such as cancer and heart disease requires good and advanced treatment in our hospitals. The growth of non-infectious and more lifestyle-related diseases is described by the World Health Organisation as a tsunami. And more people experience that mental illness prevents them from living well. The Labour Party believes that a strong common healthcare service contributes best to achieving the objective of good health and quality of life for all. It is well justified through research and comparable statistics that it is just like that. That is why we reject bureaucratic privatisation attempts from the Right and the Advance Party. Through prevention, early intervention and good treatment when you get sick, you should get the best help in our community health care throughout your life. The objective is that those in need of health care should experience them as accessible, safe, integrated and coordinated. We must organise ourselves in such a way that patients experience one healthcare service. In this way, we need to provide the primary health service in a good way, including the competence, perspective and authority of the doctors. It's important to remember that people don't get sick in hospitals. People get sick where they live, and everyone lives in a municipality. The working party's alternative budget includes a strong and targeted effort to prevent disease and provide financial muscles to municipalities that own primary health services. Hospitals and the rest of the specialist healthcare services in Norway are of high quality, but many patients still experience faults and lack of information and poor cooperation in dealing with healthcare. If we are to stop progress towards a two-part healthcare system in Norway, we need to say no to even more privatisation that prevents good management of resources where they are most needed – no more transactions and more fragmentation of the service, as the government recommends. The interaction reform, as confirmed by the Council of State through its key messages, remains valid. It needs to be followed up with measures that reverse efforts where it is most beneficial in the treatment chain. The direction of the interaction reform is not being given to any new energy, nor to any new measures by today’s government. Hospitals must have predictability in their economy so that they can constantly change, apply new technologies, new methods and new treatments and ensure good patient outcomes without unnecessary waiting and staying in treatment. The Workers' Party has promised 12 billion. kr more to hospitals during this landfill period. We believe that predictability is necessary. Our common health service should be available to all and maintain such high quality that the growing differences in health status and access to health care that we see in very many other countries are not allowed to develop in Norway. There's the greatest difference between the opposition and the government from the Right and the Advance Party, and maybe soon the Left, With that, I would like to address the suggestions that the Workers' Party is in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e253	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e260	The Labour Party is constantly engaged in its contribution to the development of the Norwegian welfare society and the welfare state is constantly evolving. But it's a development that can also be reversed. The Labour Party opted to reverse free treatment choices, and that is what they follow in their alternative budget. In addition, they distance themselves from our goal of the patient's healthcare. They even distance themselves from the very concept in their comments. How does it get into the Workers' Party's history that the party will remove important rights from those who are struggling with drugs and psychiatry, by reversing free treatment choices, and at the same time taking so actively away from our policies to put the patient in the centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e267	The Workers' Party will create our common healthcare service. All are potential patients. In a society that promotes disease, it can be a challenge for the sustainability that Sveinung Stensland talks so piously about. It is important that help is available, and it is well documented that it is the unified healthcare service, which embraces an entire population, that uses resources best. As far as freedom of choice is concerned, I will not take on the role of commissioner for Sveinung Stensland, but the free choice of hospitals was introduced in 2001. It's an important part, but it's still just 15 pst. of patients using the scheme. The result for patients in the field of drugs and psychiatry, for whom the representative of Stensland has a touching concern, is that they experience that their offer is being cut, for example. in Stavanger, because the money goes to private providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e274	The representative Kjerkol and the Workers' Party have been strong opponents of government funding for the care of the elderly. On Friday I was in the representative of Kjerkol's municipality of residence, Stjørdal, and it must be special to be so against something that works so well, and where the employees are very satisfied and want to continue to be there. Even Kjerkol's party colleagues in the municipality are entitled to state funding for the care of the elderly. Isn't it a little special to be here today and to have taken out money from a state effort that one's own municipality of residence seems to be fantastic, and that provides better services to the elderly in the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e281	The municipality Bård Hoksrud refers to, I know very well. I am surprised that Mr. Bård Hoksrud does not know the situation in the municipality of Stjørdal, where there has not been a single new hospitalization site built in the last 20 years, where the whole offer of home-based care has been turned upside down, and where a small effort is used per user who is given assistance as needed, and which, in this way, is good when you receive subsidies for bureaucracy through the state experiment. The first municipality of Stjørdal when they joined this project was to hire four new project managers, who had to go through all the individual decisions of the elderly in Stjørdal who had been promised help, one more time. Not one new hospital space has been added to this project. That the quality has been improved: yes, then Bård Hoksrud speaks to both those who live in Stjørdal, me as a relative of those who need help in Stjørdal and the real facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e288	Fixed positions and good vocational training combined with modern equipment are one of the foundations of a good health care system. It requires money and appropriations, and that is our responsibility. It is also our responsibility to pay attention to how the business is managed, i.e. organisation, culture and management. In the health system, it is otherwise: the patient-treatment meeting is the central one, and that is what constantly needs constant attention — that is, we give increased authority and responsibility to those who meet the patient. Those who meet the patient must act in the spirit of management. This must be done by reducing the amount of forms and reporting and by focusing more on the target, namely the outcome. SV and the Central Party have a proposal in the vote, proposal No. 30, where it says: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the Government for trust reform in the healthcare system, where forms and reports are exchanged with confidence in professional judgement to the greatest extent possible.’ Why is the Workers' Party not involved in such a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e301	I am following the representative Lundtigen right up to the goal of trust-based management, the proximity of those who do the job in the field, out in the service. There are certainly more practical reasons why we do not agree with what the representative of Lundtigen refers to. I want to bring forward good municipalities that have good experience with trust-based management, which has reversed development, from target management and form fields to trust-based service development. You're in red-green Tromsø, you're in the middle of town in red-green Oslo. So the goal and the value base that the representative Lundtigen forefects, we divide 100 pst. We have reflected that in many proposals and many comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e308	In modern health, digital infrastructure is becoming the blood vessels that bind everything. Therefore, the privatisation and scandals in Health South-East are so frightening. SV proposes 150 million in its budget. kr earmarked for digital renewal and safety in hospitals. We believe this should be operated and owned publicly. The left side has historically agreed to invest in the community and ensure state ownership of critical infrastructure. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party did not choose to participate when the Centre Party and SV invited the Health Minister to the Stortinget to explain the scandal and privatisation of ICT in Health South-East. Will the Workers' Party nevertheless support the ownership and operation of critical ICT infrastructure in health services under public control and invest new millions in improvements together with SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e315	The representative describes it as blood vessels, and I share that description. These are the blood vessels that are going to be even more important in our unified health care. The smooth and secure flow of information will be essential to provide the best treatment and to ensure patient information in the way that it is ensured. This will require investments in the future. The most important thing we can do is make sure that the hospital budgets are such that the necessary investments are made. For example, in Health Mid-Norway, a health platform is to be set up that will link primary health services and hospitals together – groundbreaking, forward-looking and right, but it will require a lot of expertise and not least money to make the investment itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e322	The representative Kjerkol said in his introduction that we must keep people healthy. I agree with the heart. In the next turn, there was a promise to spend 12 billion. kr to hospital. That's not where the health promotion work is, so I'm a little surprised that party speeches and priorities are not entirely linked. I'd like to go over to the care of the elderly. The working party had its chance in the eight red-green years of government, and with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left promised a 15,000 new places in the care of the elderly, but delivered 2,000 new ones. Then a housing cooperative, non-profit and private actors excluded from participating in and creating that capacity. Now the representative of Kjerkol is talking about excluding those actors, mostly, also in the continuation, but complains that today's government does not deliver. In the Arbeiderpartit-steerte Gjøvik municipality, we have Norway's record in ready-to-print patients who are pressured into hospital. So why does the representative of Kjerkol want us to push patients into hospitals, which should be in other alternatives in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e329	I think that must be a misunderstanding. The working party does not want to push patients into hospitals. That is why we want to maintain the investment grant that enables municipalities to build new housing services, new care services and also to rehabilitate the old ones they already have. The description that the Workers' Party is pushing out private people who want to build homes with care services, I do not recognize myself in either. There are a number of Arbeiderparti-steered municipalities, also Right-Handed municipalities, which are good at building private housing, facilitating their construction around the municipal services, municipal services, and filling them with good public health services and home-based care in a forward-looking and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e334	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e339	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation, but most of all, I would like to thank our cooperation partners in the United Kingdom for the effective negotiations and the good budget that we are now putting together. We're building on what we started in the last period. This budget provides the basis for what is most important in our health policy: reducing unnecessary and non-medically justified waiting for patients, increasing accessibility and capacity, improving the quality of the health and care sector, and prioritising mental health and drug use in early interventions, improved treatment and prevention. Getting help when you need it is important for both safety and quality of life. The most important thing in healthcare is not the system, but the patient. Each patient shall experience respect and openness in dealing with healthcare and avoid unnecessary waiting time. The right considers that no decision on the patient should be made without the patient. The processing apparatus must be constructed around this. The patient’s healthcare means that the quality of treatment should be high and the waiting time as short as possible and that the patient should be consulted in all parts of the healthcare system. The patient shall meet with knowledge and respect. Ensuring good health and care services to all is a public responsibility. Health cows still need to be reduced and services need to be improved through new and better ways of working. Right will work to strengthen the skills of employees and ensure greater freedom of choice for users. Increased digitisation and efficiencies will make warm hands more caring, while still reducing health cows. The provision of the most vulnerable, especially in the field of drugs and psychiatry, continues to be strengthened in our budget. People who have lived a long life but who have become nurturing must be guaranteed a life of purpose and dignity. Health and care services in municipalities need to be modernised and strengthened. We work for a comprehensive and coherent provision of health and care tailored to individual needs. It is in the primary health service, including: most have their first contact with healthcare. That is why we are pleased that the system of fixed medical prescriptions should be evaluated. Local health services form the basis for a good health service. Cooperation between primary health services and specialist health services is particularly important. The proportion of older people in the Norwegian population is increasing, and the number of persons with chronic diseases and complex care needs is increasing. This increases the pressure on the health sector. Several older people want to live at home and live an active and independent life with adapted services. Our goal is to ensure people a good and dignified care adapted to individual needs. The care of the elderly and caregivers is therefore further developed to provide all those who need it with an offer of quality and activity. We want to use all the good forces to ensure this. National health and hospital plans provide overall guidance. At the same time, we are concerned about the room for action and the flexibility of the individual hospital, so that the treatment can be optimised. Free treatment choices are important in reducing hospital queues, and both private and foreign services can relieve and reduce health cows. There is still variation in the quality of hospital provision. The work for more transparency around the quality of services must continue, including: through the use of quality indicators and health atlas. In fact, ongoing assessments of health care priorities are necessary. We will ensure rapid access to new and effective medicines. In this budget, we are adopting a major clean-up in the field of medicines to this end. The medicinal product policy shall contribute to increased patient safety, good treatment, lower public and innovation costs. Equal access to effective medicinal products is a matter of ensuring that medicinal products are available on the Norwegian market and of ensuring access to medicinal products, irrespective of their ability to pay. The dependants are a resource and should have an influence on the assistance offered to the person to whom they are related. Attention shall be paid to the fact that dependants can have more roles, including relievers, caregivers and decision-makers for the treatment process. We are therefore particularly pleased with the consensus on strengthened appropriations for related work. Health and health policies occupy a great many. That's why it's easy for us politicians to get overactive in the ministry. There are hardly limits to what we, or some of us, mean anything about. As Nils- Fredrik Nielsen said, "Some people want us so healthy that we get sick." This is an important but difficult balance. More interests need to be weighed, including: the individual's freedom and responsibility towards society's expenditure. It is, however, our duty to facilitate that people can make the best possible choices in their lives and at the same time get help when they need it. We are doing well in Norway, although we are still facing new challenges. If we are to maintain our common health care in the future, we must be willing to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e374	Every year about 30 children are born to women undergoing medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR. Doctors and nurses tell of newborns who cry a lot, sleep and eat little, have cramps, vomit, have diarrhoea – children with withdrawals. The Chairman of the Consensus Committee, Jørg Mørland, says that the medicinal products used in the LAR cannot be released from harm to the foetus and that the use of these medicinal products should therefore be reduced as far as possible in pregnant women. In the draft state budget, the Council of State writes that revised guidelines for the LAR will be completed in 2018, but in the committee position and in questions I have asked the Council of State, it appears that they will not be ready until 2019. With regard to the guidelines for pregnant women in the LAR, one has not even arrived at the submission of a plan for the audit process for the revised guidelines. What is the reason why the government party on the right is not more concerned with the vulnerable children here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e383	I'll first take away from the premise for this question. We're probably just as busy with these kids and these mothers. At the same time, like everyone else, we have been waiting for the report and the recommendations of the consensus committee. The consensus committee made its recommendations a few weeks ago, and we have already changed one of our comments in the vote, which is where we encourage the government to include this in the further work. As I experience the state council in the media, he has assured me that he will take over these recommendations and come back as soon as possible to implement this in the legislation. It is not that all professionals have agreed on what was right on this issue. There has been a great discussion; there has been a source of hostility between occupations and professional constellations. But now it seems that there is a professional consensus, and the government has said it will continue to work on it as a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e392	It was a comment on the drug policy that got a lot of attention after the committee gave its opinion. The center party wasn't in that plural comment, because we think he's unpresis and self-contradicting. Then I see Sveinung Stensland on December 13th said to the VG: ‘It is important to clarify that we do not legalise cannabis and other drugs, but we decriminalise.’ But today, a member of the Toril Eidsheim Health Committee, also from the Right, says to Bergen's Official Journal: ‘Right does not want to decriminalise drugs.’ So my question is, what is it really Right mind in the drug policy? Do they want to decriminalise or do they not want to decriminalize drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e410	The right will not decriminalise drugs. There are a number of drug abuses that provide a basis for punishment. What is contained in the note, which is simply to be interpreted, is identical to what the Right opted for, namely that the reaction of society to this type of offence should be shifted from the justice sector to the health sector. This does not mean that drug abuse should be legal, which means that possession and use should be handled differently, with a different response. It may be opportune for an opposition politician to try to split this up. We should also be glad that we have reached a broad consensus on the Stortinget that the methods we have used in the last 40–50 years may not have guided us completely. We have to think differently, and I'm very happy that a broad majority of the Storing now agree to look at this with new eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e417	Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway today, when the Right Rule. Despite the fact that the right now spends 100 billion. kr more every year of our savings in the oil fund, obviously the tax cuts of the richest have eaten up so much that it is the poorest who have to pay. This has led to a bad cut that increases differences in health and affects the weakest economically. The subsidy scheme for medicinal products has been cut by 10 million. kr, so new patients have to go out with many tens of thousands a year. The government has cut free physiotherapy for burns, cancer surgery, paralysis, etc. Parents with children who have been seriously ill for more than five years lose their care. But tax cuts to the richest – that's all right. Can the Right now guarantee that there will be no further increases in self-payments for those who are sick and poor in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e424	The increases in own-account payments follow, as they have done in the last decade, the evolution of the price picture, in particular the pros and cons of self-employed persons 1 and 2. In the case of the contribution scheme, the representative from SV is once again trying to create the wrong impression that people are starting to pay for things themselves. What the government has done in the State budget is to follow up on the recommendation of a close, unanimous increase in the prioritisation notification, namely to transfer several medicinal products to the hospital payment and to wind up the grant scheme. There was a proposal in Stortinget to keep it, but it got, as far as I know, nine votes, so the government can do nothing but follow up the completely unambiguous decision of Stortinget. I think it's sad that SV uses so much energy to scare people that they don't get medicines. It is suggested that if the hospitals are given responsibility for a service, it will not be followed up, and it puts the entire hospital service in a discredit which I think is not worthy of this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e429	In the last four years, the right and left, together with the other majority parties, have been very united in health policy, in particular in order to re-establish drug and psychiatry treatment, with large investments and also many new types of treatment. Where the right and left have separated layers in the last four years, among others. in the introduction of electronic patient records. There, the Liberal Left has remained, while the Conservative Right has facilitated the phase-in of a technology that turns out to be a little bit in the process of rotting, especially in Health South-East. There seems to be a lack of competence, equipment and capacity. It was a little daring to roll out an electronic patient record without the staff or the residents getting an introduction to it. Does the representative of Stensland think that it went a little fast in the swings when a rolled out the new journal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e436	I'm an impatient guy, and I don't think things always go very fast. Clearly, there have been challenges with this matter, but I do not share the description that the representative from the left here uses. Electronic patient records will be an important measure, for example: for the safety of patients, and for the majority of those currently using electronic communications, it is logical to deal with this. There is today a major challenge in the exchange of information between hospitals and between hospitals and patients, and electronic patient records are an important tool in this respect. As regards the process in Health South-East, I believe the Minister of Health has explained this, and I support the assessments that have come from the Department of that matter. It's of course that things might have been done in a different way. But the most important thing is the objective, namely an electronic patient record that works well and is an important means of ensuring a safer patient health service for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e443	The Christian People's Party and the Right have agreed that it is important to focus on children and young people's health. We've been together about children's and young people's mental health, and we've been together to give high priority to health care. But there's one place we disagree, and it's about how we're going to get the money to reach the kids who might need it the most. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we are actually going to reach the kids, and that all kids are going to be able to meet a health sister at school, within health care or among health care staff. So my question to the Right Representative is, how will the Right achieve the goal of getting enough health sisters when they don't want to earmark funds to make sure we get to a certain level before we take away the earmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e450	First of all, there is an increasing number of health sisters employed in the municipality of Norway. So we can agree that it might not go fast enough. When it comes to the matter of ringing, it's first of all that if we earmark all the funds, it won't reward those who are good, it'll reward those who haven't been good. I have more faith in the arrangements we have today, namely that those who are good at hiring get more. We have seen that work, for example. in my home country there are several municipalities that had not employed nurses. They got a political response to it, took a roof and have now received a good strength. I have been both a state politician and a municipal politician, and I was never happy with earring. I believe that earring initially helps undermine local self-government. That's why the Right is always critical of earring, rather we want to use incentive schemes. This is an important topic for both the Christian People's Party and the Right, we're going to follow this on, but the Right is never going to go in for full designation on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e459	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e464	Health and care services are services we all guaranteed to meet – yes, most of us will meet them quite many times during life. It is therefore very important for us to ensure that these services are good. For the Progress Party, security, freedom and action are important values that we believe should characterise the country's health and care policies. Because it's about everyone who needs care and care, being sure that when they need help, they'll get it. Freedom deals with issues such as: the possibility to participate and decide who will help you to solve your everyday challenges, whether you have a disability and need BPA or maybe a dementia and need help, either by participating in day-time activities in the municipality, or perhaps, as we have seen in some places, that you can get activity offers, for example. in a farm organised for people with different challenges, such as: Into the tunet-yards, where dents can be present in the daily life of the farm. This is freedom and is about giving the individual the good experiences in everyday life. When it comes to action, I believe this government is unique. Major measures include the escalation plan for the drug field. We have provided a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which the organisations have fought to get in place for over 20 years. Now it's in place, and we'll keep strengthening it. I would also like to point out that the government has put in place tests on state-funded care for the elderly, or health and care services, which it is really about. This is a huge success for the municipalities that are involved. They are very pleased and give many positive feedback. One of them has now also said clearly that they strongly want to continue even after the experiment is completed in 2019. Yes, it's about making sure that anyone who needs it will get help when they need it. This is action. So those who are so negative should look at these municipalities and their experiences. It's actually allowed to turn in time. I really hope they do. A key objective of the interaction reform was to create holistic patient pathways. Last week’s National Audit Office survey shows that hospital lay time has been reduced, especially for those who are being discharged for further treatment in the municipality afterwards. In several municipalities there may be reason to believe that older people will be printed too quickly, and that they will be cleaned up. Here our warning lights should flash locally. It might be interesting to know what this means for it, and what it creates from queues in hospitals that we urgently treat our older people locally. In the case of hospitals, I want to share a cute little story with you. I met a little girl of almost 11 years who is a regular patient at the Rikshospitalet, Ullevål and Ahus. Our various hospitals are specialised in the challenges she is born with, followed up and investigated for. She's been saying since she was 7, that she's going to be a surgeon, because the doctors are making life so good for sick children. The fact that small children who are ‘born into the health system’ take blood samples as the most obvious and go through tough studies is for me a confirmation of safety and good competence and gives me a good opportunity to pay tribute to hospital staff. It's not just black and white, to which the opposition is going to have it, just because it's another government. Health cows are a recurring theme. The government has done its job by improving the efficiency and development of the package process in order to reduce the waiting time. But each of us can also contribute. If we meet ‘resources and wealth’ to the hours we are called to, or say that we cannot come, it will enhance efficiency. It is made clear to hours, and employees are put on watch. Lack of attendance creates waiting lists and costs the state enormous sums. Only at Ahus this year almost 27,000 people didn't meet up to their hour. This costs a lot of money for the hospitals and the state that we should rather spend on patient treatment. Maybe there has to be a greater responsibility on those who create these queues? Maybe it's something to think about the next time you cancel an hour in the last minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e486	One in ten children experience domestic violence and abuse. Many children live under unsustainable conditions. It's not discovered, although they're all, most of them are in the health center and kindergarten before school. The health centre does not have time and resources — and sometimes not competence — to see and detect. Lack of resources and lack of competence in the ministry may have fatal consequences for an entire childhood. The representative himself used the word ‘negotiating force’. In its alternative state budget, the Workers' Party has set aside a total of 718 million. kr to work against violence and abuse. This is serious. It requires that we give priority and that we give priority. I wonder how the representative himself assesses the priorities of the Progress Party for the work against just violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e494	The Progress Party fully agrees with the representative that this is a very important area. This is why the government has taken many measures. We have used – if I do not remember completely wrong – approx. 1 billion. to school health and health care for young people, precisely because it is important to do something about this. We have also implemented several other measures that address this issue of finding out about abuse. We have also made representations in this room – which the Labour Party would not be involved in, if I do not remember very well – about investigating the whole child, just to reveal that type of infringement. So to say that the Progress Party is not concerned about this – then I think you should go back to several things that have been up in this room. To say that the government is not concerned about it – then it is just to see the strong bet we have had after the Progress Party and the Right came into government. Together with the cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party, there has been a strong commitment to the school health service, precisely because we are busy with what the representative took up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e501	I'm worried when you think it's a big bet that young people and kids meet closed doors in the schools -- they don't feel like getting that help. We experience that the money does not reach us. It is time to ask questions earlier today about the designation of the school health service, whether there is a real will for the money to reach where they should be. It's just a small part of the total effort against violence and assault, but I want to welcome the involvement of the representative and think it's amazing that we can work together against violence and assault. Then I wonder: do we want to see an increase in the next budgets in relation to precisely this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e508	It is nice that a representative from the Workers' Party and a representative from the Advance Party agree that this is an important area and important to do something about. And I fully agree that you should not meet closed doors. But it is also about the Labour Party ruling in over 200 of its municipalities and having the rapporteur there, and it is about the willingness to apply for funds. There are also earmarked funds set aside for this, and there are funds for the municipalities, so here it's a good combination. Unfortunately, there are some municipalities that choose not to apply for this money, or do not get it because they do not use the money that you initially believe should go to this type of service, precisely because you are busy with children and the health services of young people. Unfortunately, therefore, many Workers' Party municipalities do not choose to apply for this money, or they do not spend enough money to do this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e515	The representative said we had a very active government. Sometimes it is too powerful to act, e.g. in the case of the supply to patients with odontophobia, who are currently not allowed to be treated by their local dentist. These are patients who are in a very, very difficult situation, and who may have gone for many years and staggered to seek help. When they arrive at a dentist with whom they have confidence, they should not be able to be treated there, but must be represented by one of the four regional centres of competence in Norway, which may be far, far away. I see that the Progress Party and the Right have separated layers in the options. The Labour Party and the Center Party have a proposal, and we would have multiples if the Progress Party had supported us. Is this something the Progress Party can assess during the day?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e522	Both the representative Toppe and the undersigned have had meetings with private dentists who are doing this. The Parties are committed to ensuring that patients with odontophobia receive treatment. Therefore, the government has strengthened the offer to this group. Initially, it was not intended that odontophobia should be covered according to Section 1 paragraph. 14 – it was not really there, but it has been used like this. The progress party is occupied with this. We continue to work on it because it is important to be able to get treatment from private dentists as well. We think it's good. So these are the things we're working on, but we're not going to support the Workers' Party and the Center Party in this round. We're behind what the government has done, but we're very concerned about this problem, because it's important for those people to get good treatment. Many have experienced abuse, etc. That is also why this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e529	Elders who have lived a long life, deserve peace, dignity and perhaps some excitement in everyday life. That excitement should be good activities such as visits and tour groups, for which SV proposes better funding in its alternative state budget — or perhaps a date with the girlfriend. The tension should not be that one has no idea which stranger one should be forced to share space with against his will. Hundreds of older people are still forced to live in double rooms against their will in Norway. The government proposes to change the investment grant for nursing homes so that it can no longer be used to make double rooms into single rooms. This will make more people have to live in double rooms longer. In its State budget, SV proposes that the state should stop municipalities that continue to force older people to live in double rooms against their will. The Progress Party does not support that proposal, but I would nevertheless ask whether Mr. Bård Hoksrud will follow the promises he has made in the election campaign, and vote in favour of SV's proposal: to stop forcing the elderly to live in double room against their will.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e536	In fact, the Progress Party has followed this up through the government, because we have allocated funds to 10,000 new health homes in the last four years. Last year, we spent as much as the red-green government, where SV was involved, spent four years building more new hospitals. If you are to prevent people from living in double rooms against their will, you have to build more hospitals, and this government has done so at a pace that the red-green government can envy us. We're very happy about that, and we're going to keep doing that. There are now funds to build new hospitals. We need more hospitals, and no one should live in double rooms against their will. In many municipalities, SV is in charge, and then I expect them to return to their municipalities and take care to make suggestions together with the Workers' Party, which controls almost half of all Norwegian municipalities, to ensure that no one needs to live in a double room against their will. Haugesund is one of the municipalities where 90 people have been placed in double rooms, and it is not worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e541	The representative Hoksrud was concerned about children and young people. He was involved in health care, prevention. Nevertheless, the Progress Party distinguishes itself from the Right in the form of a note in the case of special smoke. Smoking is one of the things that takes the most life in terms of a sheep disease because you've smoked. When the Progress Party is so concerned with prevention, Hoksrud cannot be involved in tightening up and taking action that we know is beneficial, such as: restrictive both with advertising and with charges for special smoking?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e546	Thank you so much for that question. The progress party agrees with many of the things that lie there, and we are very happy that we see a sharp decline in the use of, among other things. tobacco and smoke. We support that. But this is a legal product, and that is why we have disagreed with plain packaging, which is why we have disagreed with some of the assumptions contained in the committee's comments. That is why we chose to withdraw from the Committee's comment. We are concerned about prevention, but we also believe that as long as you comply with the law on age, etc., and that is a legal product – and I do not feel that there is any desire for a ban on majority parties either – it should be dealt with in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e551	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e556	Mostly affecting the health of the population is outside the health sector. When the Centre Party in its alternative budget facilitates a good economic distribution between groups in society, it contributes to a smoothing out and small differences between people. It is the most important health policy priority, because social health differences are the challenge of our time for health policy. Lifetime and health are today dependent on the level of education and income. The aim of the Central Party’s health and welfare policy is to create health-promoting societies, prevent disease and mitigate geographical and social health differences. Recently, a report from the Institute of Public Health on the risk of death came. He showed that we have less risk of dying of people's diseases now than before. It's a happy development. The risk of dying of cardiovascular disease is halved in 20 years. For cancer, the risk is reduced by about 16 pst. Another common cause of death now is dementia. However, the report also showed that there are considerable differences and urban differences and also differences between educational groups in their lifetime. In the last ten years, mortality rates have been highest in Finnmark and lowest in Sogn and Fjordane. In Oslo, the average is roughly the same, but the differences between the metropolitan areas of Oslo are larger than between the counties. Continue to strengthen public health and give all equal opportunities to good years of life and a long life is therefore a strong priority in the alternative state budget of the Central Party. The centre party is concerned about the public health supply now. After several years of privatisation, centralisation and increasing demands for efficiency, hospitals now have to make painful cuts. We are soon on a good path into a two-part healthcare system. Neutral VAT, free treatment options, multiple services on offer and high level of input-driven funding are also drivers of this negative development. The center part will perform a system intervention to secure a health care system that has time for the health care system to meet the patients. We want a trust reform in health, where reporting and centralised rentals are replaced by local rentals and trust in the first line. We will replace the enterprise model with a management model, with elected governance and framework funding as needed. In the 2018 state budget, we are reducing the level of input-driven funding to 30 pst. The same amount of health care is provided in municipalities as in hospitals, without having the same focus. The center party thinks the time for testing has to be over. It's time to strengthen the basic services in our healthcare service. We need to strengthen the base mountain. Enough is enough. Try again. We have attempts at state funding for the care of the elderly, we have attempts to allow the municipalities to take over the operation of the district psychiatric centre, we have tried to ensure that the municipalities are responsible for the dental services. We have trials with primary health teams, pilots on medics, etc. However, creating new trials and pilots does not help when the base-mounting quakes. One never gets the effect of any primary health team without the firmness and resilience of the system. If we don't have a solid medical system, we'll never have a good medical system, because it's the same kind we're talking about. It's about people. The Centre Party shall therefore give priority to the fixed arrangements in particular in its alternative budget. We also give priority to a municipal rapprochement plan for drugs and psychiatry, because we give priority to those who need the most. We also strengthen the rehabilitation and rehabilitation field in the municipalities, because the chroniclers are not satisfied enough with the state budget for which the majority have joined. We prioritize the basic services, the very simple thing, because this is where it's most needed now. We have good advice in Norway when we can waste such things with human and economic resources in our healthcare service. When a layman in a hospital uses less than 50 pst. of his working day on direct patient-related work, is the system that is wrong. When Health South-East can destroy hundreds of millions of dollars on the ICT project, it's a political responsibility, it's a scandal. When the introduction of the group model in the administration causes the Public Health Institute to lose millions, it is the market direction of the government and the misunderstood efficiency policy that it owes – and it has its price. We want to create a solid health system for the future, and then we need a new course. With this, I take up the proposals that the Central Party is all about, and the proposals that we share with other parties. I would also like to signal that we support the proposal from the Red on Odda Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e580	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e587	The Workers' Party will focus on a strong public health service that provides the best treatment. Through our budget, we provide basic funding for the public specialist healthcare service, which provides real opportunities to increase treatment capacity. Over the next four years, we're going to invest 12 billion. kr more in our common hospital. In terms of hospital and hospital structure, it is important that we strike the right balance between the closeness of patients and the competence of those who are to treat them. My question to the Center Party is as follows: How can you ensure good enough competence in a decentralised hospital structure, as the Center Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e596	Thank you for the question. The question is, is that we're going to have a health care system in Norway that meets the needs of the population. We have a decentralised build-up pattern, and we also need a decentralised health care that's created for it. We've created a report called People's Health, where we describe exactly how we think this should happen. We believe that hospitals in a completely different way from today have to commit themselves to cooperating in a network model, where large and small hospitals cooperate on the patient and do not compete for the patient, as the system is now. In this way, we believe that we can ensure both quality, recruitment and the professionalism of the services provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e601	It's liberating to hear the representative from the Center Party, who so clearly has a completely different hospital policy than the Workers' Party, with which they ran for eight years and managed the system we have today. With that in mind, I would like to ask the following questions: When one is so against the decision-making system and even wants to set down decision-making forums, when one is so against the business model and has suggested to put it down and do the whole hospital management – is it realistic at all that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party can take responsibility together for health services, when one has such a diametrically different starting point in precisely these key health policy issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e608	There is certainly no greater difference between us than there is between the Progress Party and the Right, because the Progress Party would also bring down health professionals. This summer, Finance Minister Siv Jensen went out and criticized the decision-making forum north and down, and she wanted to have open drug prices in Norway. So here we have in the case of each of our problems. I'm proud that we have chiseled out an independent policy for hospitals, because that's what it takes. If it's realistic: yes, it's realistic, because we also look at other countries that have done exactly what Norway does not dare and does not have the political will to implement, simply to wind up the business organization, which may have some good side to it, but the negative overshadows everything. We don't get the health service that at least the Center Party wants, but we get a different organisation, rental and financing of the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e615	The center party's cutting 446 million. kr in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. At the same time, you ask for an examination – a lot of people might think a little about the cabin and the weather. Among other things, you cut 100 million. Dr in the Directorate for Health, and today the taxi industry should be examined. You cut free treatment options, a measure that has given several thousand people greater freedom of choice. One cuts in the attempt to finance the state. The center part controls Stjørdal, where you're very satisfied with the experiment. The representative has to answer how she thinks you should be able to get to those cuts, while having all these external reviews. In addition, you also want to remove the entire care for the elderly in the municipalities that are involved in the state experiment, because that is the consequence of 1.2 billion. kr will be gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e620	It's wrong that 1.2 billion. kr will be gone, because we will move them back to the municipalities. We've put it on the frame, and in addition, we've increased the municipal space on top of it. So that's not a cut. We have a different policy for care for the elderly. We think she should be local. When it comes to our cut in the directorate and in the administration, we think that now we have to give priority to the services near people. There are too many circulars, guidelines and things that are not implemented in the municipalities because there are not enough people there. That's why we've made a choice, because we want to strengthen the services and not have unnecessary bureaucracy. That's at least part of the answer to the many questions the representative had.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e627	Differences in power and wealth are now increasing dramatically in Norway. The more obvious times we see it is when we smile at each other. The class differences shine out of our mouths because dental health is not part of the self-proportion scheme in Norway. I want to refer to my meeting with someone named Patrick, who has bad teeth. The doctor says he has to go out with almost 200,000 kroner, but he is not poor enough to receive support through special grant schemes. He tells you about the shame you feel when you don't even dare smile properly, how stupid you feel when people look down on you, because you think you don't know anything when you have bad teeth. SV is proposing to start the phase-in of dental health in the self-employment scheme, so that no one in any year will have to pay more than NOK 2 500 to go to the dentist. Will the Centre Party join forces to implement one of the greatest welfare reforms in health in modern times and ensure that everyone can finally afford to smile properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e636	Thank you for the question. I should like to see that we were fully involved in this, because there are many good arguments that dental health must also be included in social security schemes. We do not have such a formulation in our programme now, but we say that we should still expand this offer to the vulnerable groups. So we'll take it that way. SV is probably more offensive than we are at it, we have to be honest at it. But the most important thing is to provide the vulnerable groups. There's also one of the reasons we've been busy with just these patients who've been getting it under the social security system, on reimbursement, i.e. those with odontophobia, which we've talked about before. I'm worried that SV doesn't see that particular problem. But I'm sure we can get a lot of work done in the dental field, if we get a chance to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e641	The representative of Stensland said it was liberating to hear about the representative Toppe and the Central Party's alternative hospital policy. The left share some of the concerns about the business model. But I can't wait to think it's a little confusing to hear the representative Toppe, who's drawing ghosts of massive centralization of hospitals in Norway, often symbolized by the fight for Odda Hospitals, while in the interior, people from the Center Party are the leading figures to wind up some of the largest emergency hospitals – after the university hospitals – in Norway. How does it really matter that the Senterpartiet will take care of just one large hospital in an area of size with Denmark, where there are 16 hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e646	The representative from the Left is cautious when it comes to questions, because there is always Upland. This is a matter that we have not taken a decision on here. We have our policies, which apply to the whole country, and we have also said that we are very critical of major hospitals because the economies of scale are often minimized. We're going to go into those issues when it becomes a reality. There has not been a final decision on this. Nor have I been told that during the eight years I have been sitting on the Stortinget, the Left has made one single proposal for another policy for this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e654	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e659	SV will expand the welfare state and health system, so that we can bring down the differences in power and wealth and ensure all equally good opportunities for a good life. Poor people die today many years before those who are richer. The differences in class in Norway take life. But we in this room have the tools that can guarantee equal opportunities for everyone. We can make choices that help the many, instead of the few. Therefore, SV in its State budget proposes to phase dental health into the self-employment scheme. We're cutting into prowess. We propose to strengthen hospitals. We want to expand the digital infrastructure. We take responsibility for a Russian reform for the future. And we suggest preventing health problems with school food and school fruit. Call me radical, but I actually believe that our health is more important than tax cuts to the millionaires in Norway. SV wants everyone to get the help they need, no matter how much money they have in their wallet. That is why we propose a stepping-up plan to pay a maximum of NOK 2 500 if you have to go to the dentist. We remove all the excesses for children up to 18 years of age in our state budget, we propose to reintroduce free physiotherapy for burns, cancer surgery, lambs and others, as the Right cut, and we propose to secure the medical contribution scheme, which will enable everyone to get the help they need. The employees are in our hospitals, but the situation is heavy after five years with the so-called efficiency cuts from the right. Food departments are closed, as in my hospital, Ahus. The time for follow-up of patients was cut off at St. Olav's hospital. The rape recipients are missing 75 million. kr and informs that they must say no to people in distress. Therefore SV proposes over 800 million. kr in addition to hospitals. How we build the health system today also determines how we get it tomorrow. Today, we are happy that today’s politicians guaranteed state ownership of roads, railways and natural resources such as water and oil – despite resistance from the right. Now we're facing such a choice in health care. Everything will depend on the digital infrastructure and patient data. We can choose between Right privatisation and ICT scandals like in Health South-East, or we can build critical infrastructure and rust Norway for the future. Therefore SV proposes 150 million. kr earmarked for the major construction of digital infrastructure. The best health care, however, is the help we don't have to get. SV therefore proposes free school food throughout high school and free school fruit throughout high school as the first step in phase-in for all. Large-scale cycling routes, protection of nature and increased time resources for physical activity in school will make the Nordics healthier. The last thing I want to address, one of the most important decisions in the state budget, is not, however, in the figures, but in the text. SV took the initiative and got with the Labour Party, the Right and the Left to step out the course towards a drug reform for Norway, where we go from punishment to treatment for drug users. It's now a year and a half since one of my close friends died of an overdose. He would be proud of the great crowd today. For decades we've been waiting, but now we can finally get started. The real job starts now – and SV is ready to secure a broad majority to finally get us out of darkness with punishment, and into a modern drug policy that works. Norway is richer than we've ever been. SV will spend some of those resources not on tax cuts to the richest, but on building up our well-being. That's why we're proposing to make dental health cheaper for everyone. We're proposing to cut prostrations. We propose strengthening the hospitals. We propose to secure the digital infrastructure. We suggest preventing health problems instead of just curing them. And we take responsibility for a Russian reform for the future. Our budget will ensure all equally good opportunities – regardless of the size of your wallet. This would reduce the differences in Norway. It is a budget for the many, not for the few. Finally, I would like to make all the proposals from the SV. We are drawing proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, because it is to be dealt with in draft representatives 49 S, on effort-driven financing. SV also announces support for the resolution of the proposal on Odda Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e684	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e691	Like SV, the working party is concerned with a strong public health system. Our common healthcare and common hospitals need both a good hospital economy and a good community economy to ensure good quality. The Workers' Party will strengthen our hospitals by 12 billion. kr, a stronger hospital budget than SVs. My question to SV is therefore: How will SV provide good quality in our common healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e698	SV suggests an increase of over 800 million. NOK, but unlike the Workers' Party, I think health is also about a lot more. SV prioritises prevention much higher than the Workers' Party, because we believe it is important to prevent problems from arising, not just treating them. Therefore, we propose to complete school fruit funding for the entire primary school. We propose to complete the funding of high school food for the whole of high school. We propose massive development of bicycle paths, and we suggest taking dental health into the self-promotion system. It's actually also prevention, because bad teeth know we're at greater risk of cardiovascular disease. I am very pleased with the Workers' Party's commitment to hospitals – I am happy to work together when we change government in Norway – but I also believe that it is important to prioritise prevention even more than the Workers' Party does in its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e707	Population expectations related to the level of health and care services appear to increase proportionally with technological perspectives. We are some people in the public sector to be the mainstay of health services, but we are a little surprised at how the representative sees all the innovation in the health sector going public, or whether one sees the need for private participation as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e712	SV wants to cooperate with the private, but we want to cooperate with the private ideals. We believe – radically enough – that money should go to better services for people, not to profit from tax havens. Therefore, SV will propose that ideal providers be prioritised in front of commercial operators. When we talk about innovation in our community, it's not interesting what logo people really have on their chests. What's interesting is how much resources we spend on developing our common health care system. That is why I am very disappointed that the Right, when they control, privatises ICT, for example. in Health South-East, which provides scandals where our patient data floats around the world – it almost seems uncontrollable. Instead, we could give priority to building up critical infrastructure and equiping our community for the future. Investment is important, but it's about how we prioritise, not about privatising services to get more logos on the chest. Real innovation comes from research and development and from the priority of health care money, not from tax cuts for the richest in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e719	In healthcare establishments, many services can be provided. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are in the configuration of several proposals, in which we among other things. highlights the need to always evaluate the performance of tasks in their own right before putting things out on offer. Neutral value added tax is central to this picture because, at the time it was introduced, health professionals were given an incentive to put more things on offer that were previously in their own right. There has been little talk about this in the debate on health policy since it was introduced, and I wonder if SV sees that this is something we need to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e730	Yes, it is. SV will cooperate with the Center Party to wind up this scheme, because we believe that our money should go to build a good public health service for everyone, not to privatize the services. What we actually see is that services are often becoming more expensive and worse. One can save small amounts of money right in the contract, which is often taken from pensions and salaries for employees, but when one calculates the costs of developing contracts, following up contracts, overseeing and ordering, the total costs and red tape are much larger. That is why I am pleased that we can work together to ensure a public health system – that the money will benefit everyone, instead of going to privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e735	What we hear is a story that SV and Wilkinson come with, which provides the basis for a drug reform where decriminalisation is an important element. But can SV explain to me how to ensure that fewer people start with drugs and become addicted to drugs by removing the signal effect of drugs being a dangerous and illegal drug?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e741	It's almost so I don't understand the problem. The representative of the Progress Party therefore believes that people in Norway will not understand that drugs are a dangerous substance if we change the law in Norway. It's a completely different reality than I'm living with. When talking to children and young people in Norway, they know that drugs are dangerous. That's not what makes people not taking drugs. We know that very unfortunately many people are taking drugs today. The prohibition policy has not worked. This includes, among others: As a result, hundreds of overdose deaths are reported every year in Norway. We know that there are thousands of people who abuse alcohol in Norway. When we then know that the policy is not working, the majority of the population – the Labour Party, the Right, the Left and the SV – have joined forces to take responsibility for saying that we need to find new ways. Should People Be Followed for Drug Abuse? Of course. SV believes that there should not be a legalisation of drugs; it should be a follow-up of every person — but it should be a follow-up that works and stops drugs, not just a follow-up that we already know has failed too many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e750	The Christian People's Party agrees with SV that one must provide health care more than punishment. We're concerned with an after-care unit that works, either from an institution or from treatment. This is also because there is the greatest risk of overdose. When SV now wants to move responsibility from the justice field to health, does SV’s representative believe that legalising it is the right way to go? Is it the long-term aim of SV to legalise drug abuse, instead of saying that we want to judge people for health care, and to ensure good health care and after-care that gives a goal of abstinence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e755	No – SV does not want to legalize drugs. We want to stick with the Christian People's Party and ensure that it is still banned, not least for the longings and the backers, on which we want to spend more resources. We know that today's law restricts the possibility of following up in good ways because resources are given priority to punishment, rather than treatment. But if the Christian People's Party wants to be involved in strengthening the post-protection offer, they could be. SV suggests 42 million. more for the protection of drug users, more for the treatment of drug abuse and more for the housing of drug users in this budget. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party has instead chosen to form a majority with the right side in Norway. We can also do things on post-protection now. I should have liked to have a Christian People's Party on it. But I can be very clear that we don't want to legalize drugs. We believe, however, that decriminalising the use and possession of user doses is important because we need to help people who are ill, as we do in all other fields, rather than punish them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e764	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e769	There are many positive aspects to the state of health in Norway. The mortality rate in cardiovascular diseases has been more than halved in the last twenty years. The risk of dying of cancer is reduced by more than 15 pst. during the same period. From 1990 to 2016, suicide risk has been reduced by a quarter, according to recently published figures from the Public Health Institute. In 2016, 135 people lost their lives in traffic – a high and tragic figure – but in 1970 the figure was actually 560. As a result, the number of injuries has also decreased, with this need for many costly rehabilitation sites. Hospital cows are being reduced, including: as a result of free treatment choices and multiple diagnostic package pathways. The fear of a two-part health service, for which some parties have been asked, has not been turned on. Nevertheless, one aspect of our health statistics appears to be a dark chapter in our welfare society: the number of deaths from overdoses does not decrease. In 2016, the figure was 282. This is very high compared to most other European countries. Millions of dollars have been spent year-on-year on tackling this serious social problem, with no significant effect. For a long time, it has been the Left's policy to establish a drug reform that addresses the most fundamental aspects of this problem. Therefore, I have great reason to be pleased with the majority comment in the present position, which states that drug dependence must be treated as a health problem, and not primarily as a criminal challenge. Work on a drug reform is one of the most important social liberal footprints that draws its mark on the current ageing period. Any government can count Left as a constructive partner in such a reform. The health policy of the left is readily recognisable in the budgetary position of the year. Public health and preventive health are a high priority. We do not surrender until we reach the goal of preventing more to repair less. For this reason, the Left has worked for several psychologists in the municipalities for several years. We are betting on several ergot therapists in the municipalities, and we are betting on good child protection, all of which ensure good measures and after-sales protection. Our most important public health are the kindergartens, which we'll give a real quality lift. With regard to early interventions, through a set of measures in kindergarten and SFOs, family protection, child protection and health measures aimed at children and young people, targeted efforts in the early school years and combating child poverty have invested billions of dollars. For example, the Left proposes a commitment to measures to combat poverty of around 2.7 billion. kr in its alternative budget. We know that health is worse for those who have poor advice, and we need to balance social differences with an active and redistributive policy. In the alternative budget of the Left, we have reduced the growth of specialist health services in order to be able to focus more on primary health provision and on health promotion outside the healthcare sector. These are essential priorities for ensuring a sustainable health service. In the budget agreement, we have had an impact within the municipal framework in order to increase efforts in health care sisters and health stations by 100 million. kr, we've set aside 75 million. To keep the pressure on the escalating plan for the drug field, and we have strengthened our work on mental health, especially for students. With regard to the structure of the health system, it suggests that the current organisation in health regions has come to be. It is now primarily a matter of adapting the scheme to new political realities. The left has been the driver of the most necessary municipal and county reform. Health enterprises are state enterprises that largely follow previous county boundaries. This applies to both local and regional health enterprises. The left considers that there may be reason to consider whether the health business structure should be modified in accordance with regional reforms and municipal boundaries where this is natural, for example. in the division of labour between Health Nord and Health Mid-Norway. The left believes that through effective organisation and increased use of welfare technologies, we will see a whole new healthcare in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e797	No one has drawn a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e802	The government parties, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, have agreed on a budget that builds up further under the goal of creating the patient's healthcare. The attitude shows that health is a field where the four parties are able to apply together for good solutions, and where the political consensus is great. Although the year’s budget shows that the space for action is getting tighter in the years ahead, health remains a budget win. In our five budgets, the government and the cooperation parties have set up a higher level of activity in hospitals than the last government has been able to achieve over eight years. In 2018 we add up to 2 pst. hospital growth. Growth is higher than demographic developments. It provides more for patient treatment, new medicines and not least significant investments in construction and equipment. As politicians, we have a duty to think from a generational perspective. That's why it's important that we use the space we now have to invest for the future. This budget continues to expand and maintain important health infrastructure, and we continue to invest in new hospitals. The government and the majority parties are proposing 818 million. kr for the start of five new construction projects over the next few years, compared to the budgetary balance for 2017. These projects are a new hospital in Drammen and in Nordmøre and Romsdal, the extension of Haugesund hospitals, new clinic building at the Radium Hospital and the new safety department at Oslo University Hospital. Furthermore, we are in favour of planning for two proton centres in Norway, where the first is proposed to be established at the Radium Hospital by 2023, while the second is established in Bergen by 2025, but may come faster if one finds a solution for it locally. The escalating plan for the drug field is followed up by 300 million. kr in the strengthening of the free revenues of municipalities. Furthermore, it's 200 million. kr of the growth of the free incomes justified by an early effort in kindergarten and school, which is 200 million. on prevention measures for children, young people and families. The budget agreement further increases the free revenues of municipalities by 100 million. SEK to more health sisters and 75 million. kr to the escalating plan for the waste field. Together, the escalating plan for the drug field is strengthened by approximately 90 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. That means that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are in line, and it's within reach of reaching the strong growth that the escalation plan is committed to, to 2.4 billion. kr. We now see good results from government and the policy of the cooperation parties. We are well advanced in life expectancy. OECD figures show that we are back this year among the top ten countries, and there is reason to rejoice. In the past, public health policy was cited as the reason for prolonged life expectancy. Now, good health services are also pointed to as an important main reason why we live longer. Since the accession of the government of Solberg, there have been about 75 000 fewer waiting in a health queue. In other tertiary this year, the average waiting time for all areas was 58 days. Compared to the same time in 2013, there is a 13-day decrease. The time limit was 2.5 pst. in the second tertiary 2017. There's a decrease of 4 percentage points compared to other tertiary in 2013. To date, a total of 28 package trajectories have been introduced. Too many cancers are the result of the package processes, while in other areas we need to improve our efforts further. We have started work on establishing a package process within mental health and the drug area, and we propose to continue well over 5 million. kr to this next year. The first three package runs will be implemented in the autumn of 2018. By the end of 2020, more than 15 package trajectories will be developed and introduced. Yesterday I presented the first package for the stroke patients. In the next few years, Norway will have to give greater priority to budgets than we have been accustomed to in previous years. The conversion we're facing is not something we can afford out of. We are therefore dependent on solutions that close this gap between the need for resources and the availability of them, and it is, among other things, a matter of action. to solve these problems in new ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e830	When the interaction reform was presented, the Council of State – as at the time was a member of the Health and Welfare Committee – said it was time to get started. The Council of State considered the content and instruments of the reform to be too weak. After he has been the Council of State for four and a half years, I would remind you that he has previously been afraid that the reform will slip into the sand. Now it seems that the Council of State responsible for implementing the interaction reform is responsible for just that. In the control of the National Audit Office we find evidence of what we have feared – again, because it is not the first time this is presented or warned against. Interaction reform is not followed up well enough, and health businesses, owned by the Council of State, do not do enough. Will the Council of State provide instruments to achieve the objectives of the cooperation reform, or will he not listen to advice from the Stortinget or from the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e837	I think the representative has a slightly selective representation of what was my perception of the interaction reform when it was presented by the previous government. My main criticism – which I joined with the Christian People's Party, the Progress Party and the Left – was that this was a proper policy reform, but that the challenge, first of all, was that the municipalities were not prepared for the reform, and, second, that it focused very much on economic instruments and to a small extent on what was the great need, namely the content of services. There is also one reason why this government has provided a primary health report, which is just about the content of municipal health services. Another essential prerequisite for the interaction reform, which one failed to do because the central party put in government, was to do something about the municipal structure. There is a very close link between the important changes in the municipal structure that we are now undergoing and the success of a good local health service, which is a prerequisite for the success of the interaction reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e844	I recorded that I did not receive any response. However, when Stortinget dealt with the keynote on the interaction reform in 2009, there was a broad consensus on the analysis behind the reform – that it was necessary and important, and that it pointed out a direction, as the Council of State itself says. Now the State Council itself claims that he has a co-ownership by confirming the direction of the interaction reform through the big messages it has provided and has been responsible for. Does the Council of State agree that he now has the top responsibility for implementing the necessary steps in the healthcare system, so that the intentions of the reform become a reality, or will he continue to evenly share blame with everyone else and once again stow away a serious report from the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e852	The challenge of the interaction reform – as I said in my previous reply – was that it was a good policy reform, but it had too little content related to what the services were actually about. It's also the responsibility that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have taken over the four years we've been behind, and that we're also prepared to move on, namely to work on what actually matters to patients and the citizens. It's improving the health services in municipalities. We do so through the follow-up to the primary health notification, which is not least available in this state budget, with primary health teams and with follow-up teams for patients with complex disorders. We use new digital tools that provide distance tracking, as we see, that kind of results: that a person gets previous help, needs fewer hospitalizations, and is better able to master his own life. This is precisely why the content – which means something to succeed in the direction that has been drawn up in the interaction reform – is now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e857	A recent national audit report found that every five patients who have been discharged to the local health service were refurbished within 30 days. The 2016 Riksrevision report showed that in four years there were 308 000 daily treatments in Norwegian hospitals, and half of the galled patients over 80 years of age. Maybe we've come to a point in the Norwegian health care system where we're not going to cut more beds, but we're going to take care of those who actually need to be admitted. Now we see that hospitals after hospitals cut out further in bed capacity, among other things. Haukeland, who had the board meeting yesterday – 50 beds are laid down. My question to the Minister of Health is: does the government think that this is a defence policy, when we see that all cuts are made against those who add their votes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e864	We see that the development of healthcare related to a transition to more day care has not stopped. On the contrary, there is a development that goes on. This allows patients not to be hospitalized, but can get good help and come home again. It is a desirable development, both for the individual patient and for healthcare, and it is also the direction of the interaction reform, which was in the previous row, to a large extent. I think that development has not come to its end – it is going to continue. For very many patients, it is better to have a closer follow-up of both the community health service and the specialist health service at home where they live. I think that will improve the patient's health experience, and that will improve the results. So I do not agree with the representation of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e871	Now bedposts are cut in hospitals, and small wards must have common bedposts. There's a whole new situation in Health-Norway. In the past, there has been a division into the patient's best interests to take care of patient safety and specialised knowledge. Currently departments are being merged across professional departments, a whole new situation. In the past, we have been warned by the Health Department that patients who are not in their own department are at greater risk of patient injury. How can a person allow such a consequence of the poor hospital economy when it actually goes beyond the profession out there, and a whole new tradition that nobody knows the consequences of, and that is a danger to patient safety in the services?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e878	Hospitals cannot maintain beds because one should take care of an old way of working. When patients get more day care, when patients get more decentralised treatment, closer to where they live, when they can go home and get follow-up at home instead of being hospitalized, we cannot maintain bed posts because the representative Toppe thinks things were better before. This is simply a medical development, but it obviously means that when patients who have different diagnoses are in the same bedside position, it will require a new way of working just to reduce the type of risk that the representative points to. Of course, it is a responsibility of the individual hospital. The challenge is that patients happen to end up in other bed posts, which is well known, but this should not happen by chance, this is planned and where a person has a risk assessment at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e885	The difference in power and wealth is now increasing in Norway as the Right Rule. Some of those who labor the most are drug addicts. That is why I am proud that the SV, the Labour Party, the Right and the Left together should take responsibility for a Russian reform for Norway. But I have to say that I am disappointed with the state budget now being presented, where there is too little effort to help drug users. SV proposes, inter alia: Forty-two million. kr in increased various efforts for treatment, help and housing for drug users, who unfortunately vote in favour, and this despite the fact that they have increased the deficit in the state budget by over 100 billion. kr per year. Russ reform must be about much more than decriminalisation, at least we in SV believe. It must be about follow-up, treatment and better help. Will the Minister of Health thus promise that the government will propose a strong increase in the funds for this sector when we are about to make a drug reform together?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e894	The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have not been waiting for the Russian reform for which there is now a majority in the UK. The work of stepping up and improving treatment for drug addicts started one day when this government took over, in the very first state budget that the government agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left. That means we're now in the middle of a massive escalating plan, a historic escalating plan for the drug field, where we're going to spend 2.4 billion. kr more at the end of 2020 than we did when the escalation plan started. I understand that the representative needs to market the SV's alternative budget, but would like to recall that the Christian People's Party and the Left in the budget agreement have had an impact on the amount of money spent on the drugs field almost twice as high as that in the SV's alternative budget. The investment in addition to the government's proposal is about 90 million. kr, while SV’s proposal is about 42 million. kr, so the representative should be satisfied that the Christian People's Party and the Left have had a strong impact, stronger than the representative himself has proposed in his own budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e901	The majority parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left, have agreed on Norway's first mental health strategy. That's good. The next step is a concrete stepping-up plan for mental health, with particular emphasis on children and young people. When will the Council of State put forward such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e906	My goal is to present it during 2018. I also look forward, of course, to the discussions we will have with the Left after Christmas about a possible common government platform, where I am fully convinced that the focus on children's and young people's mental health will be an important topic. It's an important theme for today's government parties, and I know it's an important theme for both the Left and the Christian People's Party, but the ambition is to present the plan during 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e911	It's almost Christmas. We all think that's good. But there's someone who fears Christmas and doesn't know where they're going to be. There are many ideal actors who make for these, making Christmas meals and fellowships with warmth and closeness. Just like these organizations, such as the Blue Cross, the Gospel Center, the Salvation Army, the City Commission and several others, experienced that the budget line was cut by 40 million. kr despite the fact that there were several applications for the item that received no – they did not fit into the criteria. How will the Council of State manage exactly this group of organisations that are so important to those that public Norway is unable to reach and that do not have a table with ribs and sticks to sit at the time of the feast?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e916	The Christian People's Party has achieved a strong increase in that entry in the 2017 budget. Unfortunately, there have not been enough applications that meet today’s criteria, as the funds could have been used this year. Therefore, there is a cut in the reclassification proposition, but still there is unused funds on the entry in 2017 which means that the possibility of granting allocations will be equally high in 2018. But we have also changed the criteria in the entry, so that one is no longer locked in the division that was between activity grants and daily space grants. It is likely to allow some of the organisations that applied for in 2017 and were rejected to receive grants in 2018, just linked to what is about giving people content and activity in their everyday lives, and which will then be given more opportunity to get commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e922	In the spring there was a massive mobilization in Odda to prevent the resolution of the emergency surgery and to strengthen Odda hospitals. In the big debate on the National Health and Hospital Plan on 15 May, an overall Storting went into order to keep both emergency surgery and other emergency services up and to strengthen the hospital. But on Friday 24 November, the board of Health Fonna discussed the 2018 budget with several cut suggestions at Odda Hospital, including the merger of two bed posts, fewer beds and reduced activity next summer. It was supported by the board of Health Fonna. In our view, this is contrary to Stortinget's own leadership of Odda Hospital, and in our view it is also contrary to what the Minister himself has said, namely that Odda Hospital should still be an emergency hospital, and that the offer should not be reduced but strengthened in many areas. How does what is now happening to the hospital harmonize with the Minister's own opinions, and not least with the Stortinge's own decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e931	The decision of the Great Britain and the leaders that lie there is going to be followed up by me, Health West and Health Fonna. In the same way as other hospitals, Health Fonna works with the 2018 budget and has made its decision there. That means that Odda Hospital, in the same way that the hospitals in Haugesund and Stord, have to take their share of the work of getting a balanced budget. That means it's going to be reduced by two beds in Odda Hospital, and that means that the existing medical bed post and the surgical bed post become a common bed post with a total of 14 beds. This conversion does not have any impact on preparedness, which was the main theme of the Storting's examination of representatives' proposals and the additional task I gave to Health West as a follow-up to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e938	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e943	Red will have a health service that is jointly and publicly funded and operated, in order to ensure equivalent services for all citizens. We want to reverse the privatisation of well-being and want a public, democratically controlled model of healthcare that meets people's needs. We value the principle of free and universally available healthcare. That's why we're proposing to grant 2.5 billion. kr to work to phase dental care into the self-proprietary scheme. In our view, the government's draft budget is a continuation of the systematic under-financing of the hospitals we have seen in recent years. Instead, red will increase the appropriations allocated to health businesses by 400 million. kr. About a quarter of a million Northmen with chronic disorders lost their right to treatment by physiotherapist without self-esteem last year. Many chronically ill people are ill and cannot afford another treatment cost. This cut was both unsocial and unfair. More and more hospital tasks are being tendered and operated by commercial operators. A driving force behind this is the change from 2017 in the payment of VAT by hospitals. This makes it more profitable to buy services such as IT, cleaning, laundry and canteen operations externally. Red goes in to reverse this change, called neutral VAT, for health businesses. Today we are making a loose proposal to ensure that Odda Hospital is maintained at today's level and strengthened with new tasks in line with the Stortinge recommendations earlier this year. This is about security, proximity and equivalency for all parts of the country, also in areas where there is a lot of mountains and fjords and weather, and where a different type of structure is required than in many other countries to ensure a good offer for the whole population. On 15 May, the representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen from the Right said that there would be peace around the hospitals, not least for Odda and Odda's people, and that a good review would be taken in the Stortinget, not least of the offer they have. But now there's still unrest in Odda, and they're again worried about the future of the hospital. Our proposal is therefore about doing what Minister of Health Bent Höie himself has said, namely that Odda should have an emergency hospital, and that the offer should not be reduced, but strengthened in many areas. With that I take up Red's proposal for the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e958	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e963	Did you know that the scientists believe that the first person to live for 50 years is already born? Now it's probably not exactly in this four-year period that we have to provide services to 150-year-olds, but a lot of us live much longer than before. It is primarily a good thing for society and the individual that many live long, good lives. But that also means that we need to have new policy solutions in our toolbox, and that we need to have this formidable evolution of living life in the back of our minds when we're going to draw up the long lines of health policy. Older people have an incredible amount to contribute to society. In many places it would actually not have gone around if it wasn't for the pensioners. In skis Mary, who is 82 years old herself, and other volunteers in the Red Cross, travels around our nursing homes every week. Ragnhild, 85 years old, is a teaching assistant for refugees on intro courses, and Tore, 69 years old, has replaced the job at the Railway Station with the task of ‘morning bird’ in the morning traffic at Hebek School. The old-age policy of the Workers' Party is based on the fact that the elderly are a resource-intensive and diverse group. Through an active ageing policy, we can make use of the large resources represented by the seniors in working life, social life and volunteering. For the Workers' Party, it is important to identify and modify practices, structures and legislation that prevent seniors from participating in society as they wish. This is also the background to my earlier questions to the Minister of Justice about the 70th anniversary of the appointment of fellow judges and others, similar to those. While some older people are very active and healthy, others need different services in their everyday life over the years. These may include habilitation and rehabilitation, home care or a day-to-day care centre. Very many of the services are the municipality that is responsible for delivering to its inhabitants. Most people want to stay at home for as long as possible. Then the home must be safe, and the person who lives at home must have the opportunity of an active and social life. The cultural walking stick is a system for ensuring good cultural offerings to seniors. It is petty for the government not to ensure that this good offer is maintained. For relatively modest resources, older people across the country have been able to participate in culture and get good experiences. Many, both for themselves and as relatives, want to live at home, even with an emerging dementia. The working party is concerned that the expansion of the offer to people with dementia is too slow. We have previously proposed an obliging escalation plan for dementia care, and we want a statutory daily activity offer for residents with dementia. We also believe that the government needs to assess whether the grant scheme should be modified in order to deliver better results and to create more places faster. Through the year's budgetary procedure, the government makes everyday life tougher for the municipalities. At the top of a tight municipal framework, support for both resource-intensive users and rehabilitation of lucky day care places will be tightened. The working party has in its alternative budget over 3 billion. kr more to the municipalities than proposed by the government. It gives room for a stronger commitment to care for the elderly. My home municipality, Ski, will lose millions of dollars on the government's conversions. Now you might not be able to clean up institutions at the same rate as you had planned, since the government is no longer going to be on the fissure layer. Sometimes I wonder if the government has forgotten that these arrangements are about people. It can work like this when the municipalities, which provide services to these people every day, are asked to squander more of the lemon. In our day care centers, our parents and grandparents live. That's where they live the last part of their life. A lucky day's care room is a home. The Labour Party will not contribute to a development in which some of its inhabitants live in top modern nursing homes adapted to the care services of the future, while others will only be offered old, worn and inappropriate living rooms. For employees, this will result in neither upgrading nor renewal of the job. The working party opposes the government's conversion of the investment grant. Elder policy is full of opportunities. I am happy to develop good solutions for today's and future seniors – for their own good and for the good of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e988	Having a drug problem is a major challenge and burden both for individuals and for relatives. Right wants a worthy care. This summer I met a bunch of young people who worked intensely and focused on building up the life they had dreamed of. They were on drug treatment — completely without medication — and they learned to be masters of life. It requires will, it requires courage, and it requires trust. The chance is so much bigger when someone shows that they trust you. A lift makes the race easier. But what if self-confidence is gone – and the same thing about trust in society around one? The Russfield is a high priority through the escalation plan, with emphasis on early intervention, better treatment and prevention. But unfortunately, we still see too many stories about young people, or even children, who have experienced isolated events that have made it difficult to believe in society around them. In their work, the government has shown that they see the value of good mental health and that it can cope with social differences. Difor is a commitment to the mental health of children and young people, as we now see in the 2018 budget, very important. Prevention of good mental health requires action within several sectors. I'd like to draw out one of them in particular: that lifelong students come in as one of the multidisciplinary themes of their basic schooling will be able to give more of a better starting point than what we see they have today. Rightly, it wants to pursue a knowledge-based drug policy with a narrowing of harm and harm reduction as a decisive objective. The patient’s health care system is also central here. We see that the results are better when you are allowed to participate in your own treatment. The way from rushing to restless requires hard and targeted work, not least by the person himself. Care from the community around must go through inclusion. In the right, we think it's right to do more to help, not punish, addicts. In the 2018 draft state budget, we are also strengthening the local authorities' space for action in the field of drugs. The municipality has an important role to play in good care. We need to ensure a more holistic approach between municipalities, both in terms of prevention and not least in terms of the transition to and from treatment. The right-wing party government aimed at reducing the waiting time for drug treatment. The waiting time has now been reduced and further work is needed to strengthen the right to free treatment options. To the right, the reaction to people being taken to use and own drugs should be help, treatment and good follow-up. We want to make sure that the right incentives are given, and not least to see that they are related to our superior goal of a safe and good, restless life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1005	Today, I could have used my whole article to talk about budget and figures, about how much we spend on Norwegian health and care, about how many people get a better daily life thanks to a combination of a fairly large oil money and a fantastic government. And all I would say would of course be true. But after a majority in the Committee on Budgetary Control has agreed on a proposal to decriminalise drugs, I think it is more important to spend time talking about what this really means. The focus of the promotion party is to provide rapid treatment to those who are motivated for treatment, and to develop better aftercare in municipalities. Those who are going back to life must meet with offers such as work, education and schooling, housing and follow-up that provide a good framework and security. Today many of those who come back to the municipalities from treatment meet with emptiness. There is no good plan of follow-up, no plan of work or activity, and in many cases inappropriate housing is provided with people who are still on the move. The party of progress will meet them with a safe everyday life, with content, with dignity and respect. The majority of the population will meet them with a decriminalization, which is a signal that drugs are not really that dangerous. Last Sunday, the prevention department of the Manglerud Police Station issued a message on Facebook expressing concerns about the decriminalisation of drugs. At the same time, they asked politicians to contact the police to hear their views on the proposal. Last night, therefore, I and my colleague Bård Hoksrud went to the Manglerud Police Station and a nearly an hour and a half long meeting with Hanne and Hans Magnus from the preventive department. What we were quite certain about before the meeting, we were absolutely sure when the meeting was over. I see the majority as agreeing to decriminalise drugs, but I'm not able to grasp what else they agree on. Portugal, to which many refer, has a system in which heavier addicts receive help instead of punishment. However, even today, heavy drug addicts in Norway are largely not penalised for drug use and possession, but for other types of crime, such as drug use, and no one is in prison in Norway for drug use and possession alone. Police also use very little resources to produce individual cases of drug use and possession. Minor drug issues are decided in Norway at the prosecution stage. That's a pretty big difference from most other countries. In Portugal, for example, they had no other way of responding to drug issues than to direct cases to justice. Portugal had very big challenges with the number of drug users, and even after they have started to spend huge resources on this reform, Portugal has a much larger problem than Norway has. Others refer to the United States and, among others, the United States. State of Colorado. Well - the experience from Colorado shows that all that legalization champions say will be a positive effect, myths and has turned completely wrong. Colorado has an increase in traffic accidents, an increase in the number of children and young people using cannabis, a strong increase in the pressure on auxiliaries and an increase in organised crime, and business is now moving its conferences out of Colorado. To the extent that you want to refer to several of the countries that have decriminalised drugs, you should do so to show examples of a policy that you do not want to introduce in Norway. Both police, health professionals, schools and organisations working in the drugs field are more aware that society’s clear attitude to drugs, together with prevention and early intervention, are the main factors in succeeding in reducing the number of drug addicts in the future. Yes, we have challenges, but we also have many good results on the basis of good, systematic work. So let's take time to improve what's not working well enough. Let's spend time improving what can be improved. The progress party is opposed to using young people in an experiment to ensure that good adults can sit at home and get a joint. No one is in prison for drug use and possession only in Norway. There are three times as many people aged 15–17 who receive a conditional exemption from the charges as those who are being fined. We have a lot of opportunities to make today's care better, but decriminalizing use and possession is not one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1028	Ensuring good health and promoting quality of life for all, regardless of age, is the very objective of health policy. It's important for each of us, but it's also crucial for the society we live in. Poorer public health contributes in the long run to weakening the welfare state. It drains the society of labour and income into the community, and it increases the cost of disease. The most serious thing is that the difference between those with good and those with bad health is increasing. Where to live, the level of education of parents, income and background are essential for health. We each have a responsibility for our own health, but as a community we are responsible for everyone's health. If everyone is to have equal opportunities, we need to invest more in what ensures our children safe and good growth conditions, and that when the younger ones before they become mentally and physically ill. When you start healthy habits early, they're more likely to last a lifetime. The Labour Party believes that the next major health promise must be about children and young people. There are serious social differences in the health status of the population, and as a community, we cannot accept that the background and income of parents should be decisive for the future of a child. In the election campaign, we in the Labour Party promised solid efforts with concrete measures to improve public health. When political parties present their budgets, voters can decide whether the actual policy is in line with the promises. We in the Labour Party are following up our ambitions for an offensive public health policy with funds for concrete action through our alternative state budget. In prevention, it is well demonstrated that the broad universal measures have the greatest health benefits. We believe that the school has a great untapped potential. By means of measures aimed at school, we reach all children. It was a big day when the Storting made an important decision to put in place more physical activity in school, because we know that increased physical activity in children is one of the most important measures we can put in together to create good habits. The Labour Party has also spent money in its alternative state budget on just one hour of physical activity for all children aged 1–10. steps. Inactivity and poor diet pose a real threat to the health of many children. Providing healthy food during everyday school life is one of the most effective things we can provide. Malnutrition, overweight and lifestyle diseases are increasing among Norwegian children and young people. The school is a common meeting place and should have been used much more to create good eating habits. The working party wants to reintroduce the system of fruit and vegetables to everyone from the first stage to the 10th stage, and in addition, in our alternative state budget, we have spent money on a trial project in 50 municipalities with a free, healthy school meal as a piece of work between the public and the parents. Now we see examples of municipalities that take responsibility themselves. Last week we were able to read that Porsground is putting money into a local school fruit scheme. That's too bad. It shouldn't be like that. It creates differences when not all children can have the same opportunity. It is clear that the Progress Party and the Right believe that public health is an individual problem. They show it over and over again, on a case-by-case basis, when they vote against it. Last time we saw it in the matter of physical activity. Everyone in the Right was for more physical activity, everyone in the Right voted against. It's our shared responsibility. When the panel is red, when the bells ring, we can't close our eyes. Then we have to respond with political solutions, not just supportive words, posts and campaigns. It's about prevention, and it's about getting in early. We strengthen local government budgets so that we spend more money where it is needed. We're lifting the school health service. More could have been done in common, more could have been done if we had spent more money. We don't want to fill hospitals with patients with lifestyle diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1047	I want to strike a blow for public health. This is a budget debate, but we should never forget that good public health begins and ends with the choices that each of us makes. Public health is not just about how much money we put into a budget, but just as much about what relationship each of us has to diet, smoking, alcohol, medication and physical activity. I think we just have to get out more. We have to use nature around us to strengthen the muscles, the heart, the lungs, the mental health and much more. It's not important to run far and fast, but we can take a walk every day. I have a strong feeling that far more doctors can make greater demands on patients than they do today. I think far more doctors should instruct patients to take a greater responsibility for their own lives and health. We don't have to solve all medical health problems when we know that a lot of health problems can be improved with physical activity and better diet. Overweight and physical inactivity lead to more people becoming ill, increasing the social differences in the population. Active outdoor activities and the use of nature prevent both physical and mental distress. Prevention is much better for each individual human being and for society than repair. We politicians have a great responsibility for how public health develops in the population. Public health policy must show the good and healthy choices. This is very challenging, but we have to show through politics and action that it pays for our health to make good choices, and we politicians have to go ahead as good role models. In Norway, we have a rare good spirit of virtue. Thousands of volunteers use large parts of their leisure time to facilitate good experiences for the rest of us, whether it's in ski jumps, on the senior or in a sports hall. I'm always impressed by the efforts of a lot of firemen to do for us by twittering in the mountains, laying out footbridges over soft ants, arranging dance at the seniority centre, or inviting to walks in the community. Sport and outdoor organisations provide an important broad range of services for children and young people and provide targeted services to elderly and chronically ill people. My neighbor Per has passed 70 years. He and a bunch of firefighters spend many hours each developing the skier and tour network in the municipality. Per stands up with excavators and tractors, and he is involved in producing snow so that the children can go a long way every Wednesday. What makes me highlight Per is that he doesn't have children himself. He doesn't ski either. He does it primarily for others than himself. There's a lot of people like Per, and they're impressive. But fires don't burn forever. We who are politicians and leaders have a responsibility to build up under positive activities. It is important to support public health promotion activities under the auspices of voluntary activities. State and municipality cannot solve all the tasks that citizens need in modern Norway. We need to ensure good cooperation with voluntary actors and organisations in order to achieve good public health work. Outdoor life is an important source of good health and quality of life for the population. The Government will continue the high level of funding for outdoor life from 2017. For the first half of 2018, the government will present an action plan on outdoor life – a plan to further strengthen the work on outdoor life. The government is also following up the efforts of self-organised sports and physical activities of 100 million. kr to the municipalities for a period of three years from 2017. Norway will be one of the world’s highest-life countries. Nordics must have many good years of good physical and mental health. Unfortunately, there are relatively large differences in the health of the Nordics. We as politicians have a responsibility to reduce the differences. We have a responsibility for the Nordics to experience good public health from the time they are born, until they go to the end of life. Municipalities have an important role in public health work, and there is a need to strengthen municipal public health work. In general, municipalities still have a long way to go before they become good at prevention. The budget proposes to increase the subsidy framework for the Public Health Programme in the municipalities by 25 million. SEK from 71,3 million. kr. The programme starts in 2018 and is a collaboration with KS. The programme aims to promote mental health and local drug prevention and to contribute to the integration of mental health as an equivalent part of local public health work. Children and young people are a priority target group. Prevention is important, and it is important to be early out. Norway is a well-organised country, where many bodies are responsible for detecting adverse behaviour or activities that may be detrimental to public health. There are many agencies that can intervene and prevent or deliver early interventions. We should never forget that good public health begins and ends with the choices that each of us makes. As political leaders, we must take the lead as good role models.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1072	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1078	I remember talking to a little girl that I know, and she came so gently and said, "I'm with him Per, I, and then he knows about it!" I don't know what kind of relationship the Christian People's Party has to the government these days, and who knows what, but to say it in the medical language, I think it's signs that the Christian People's Party has pretty good prognosis. I think the government is doing so much weird. And when you know how many bureaucrats are sitting over there -- I've been in the departments seams, so I know there's a lot of good people -- I don't know where the government takes everything from. But in the case of e.g. phasing out grants for rehabilitation projects in the care sector – a bad idea. I think the Christian People's Party committee leader, Olaug V. Bollestad, answered in a rather constructive way when I asked what she meant earlier today. We can stop a good deal, and more we have to try to stop before things go wrong. KS has also strongly protested against this – without any response from the government. KS asks to have at least five more years, beyond 2020, for municipalities to be able to convert. This is a government that's only busy with multiple units, not of quality. It must be important to focus on rehabilitating the institutions and the building mass we have, especially when the municipalities have found out that it is the best solution. Then the municipalities have made an assessment of what they think is best for their elderly or other caring people. I know that the Christian People's Party really agrees that it is stupid to remove this grant. So to this as the government will do with the health stations and the school health service, which the majority will now emphatically park: I could imagine that later in the debate we could hear from the health minister if he realized that this matter is now safe in the parking lot, with the majority comment we have today. And then there's this with the transfer of the aid system from the state to the municipalities, a system that works well: fortunately also the Christian People's Party has joined us in red-green, so it's stopped. The government is playing high with several good schemes. Common to the government is that it weakens the offer to people who need these solutions, while at the same time increasing the expenditure that municipalities have in already tight budgets. I must finally remember what Christmas gift the local government could have received if it had been a different government. I can't help but remember that just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1093	"Life is lost while we wait." That was the headline in the newspaper a few days ago. Norway is the world’s best country to record health data, but Norwegian health data are spread across 17 central health registers, 54 national medical quality registers, approximately 150 other quality medical records, approx. 300 biobanks registered in the Biobank Register, an unknown number of other research biobanks, national and regional health studies, basic data, socioeconomic data and patient records. These data could help prevent disease and improve the treatment of cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, etc. The possibilities are incredibly great. The government sees the importance of making best use of these data and continues to invest in this year's budget in the Directorate for eHealth, which together with the Research Council inter alia. shall develop a health analysis platform collecting all these registers. The opposition to this work has been justified by privacy considerations, but one national health analysis infrastructure will effectively ensure that the population is given greater control and participation over its own data, in line with a new data protection regulation that strengthens privacy rights. By establishing a single national health analysis platform with a common portal providing researchers and other users with secure and encrypted access to health data from different sources, there will be a transparent and secure management of health data. This is time-consuming work that will in the long run provide us with important knowledge that can improve the health of the North, knowledge of causes of illness and the effects of treatment. It will save both resources and human suffering. At the same time, the use of a nationally anonymised database on genetic variants in Norwegian patients will provide information that can be used to develop new targeted therapy medicinal products. The establishment and operation of a national network building up regional multidisciplinary competence in personalised medicine in all health regions ensures the dissemination of competences across the country. We're going to put privacy in the high seat, but we're not going to have to put undue fear of the unknown to slow down this work unnecessarily. Finland is well in the process of managing health data and in the spring of 2017 entered into a partnership with IBM to analyse both public and private health data. The aim is to provide citizens with better health care. Finland is the first country in the world to do this on a national basis. It is the work that has also been started here in the country through the Directorate for e-Health. This is the future. Let's use the knowledge that's stored around in drawers and lockers, and create a better health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1104	In these days many tense children count down to Christmas Eve. At school are the pleasant evenings, in kindergarten there are Christmas calendars and Christmas presents, Christmas songs are sung, and on children's television the Fantorang sings every single night that he rejoices for Christmas. It crawls in the stomach of many, many thousand little ones. But at the same time, unfortunately, too many children now face a bad feeling in their stomach. Christmas is also a celebration of violence and assault. More time together, stress and alcohol make children extra vulnerable in the days we now meet. We are many who care, and who do not accept that children live under care failure, but statistically there should be one or one in each kindergarten and in each school. Many children go under the radar and are not caught. Violence and assault are not private matters. Politically, we need to do more to discover and avert and stop violence and abuse in close relationships. When parents do not set up, we must jointly take responsibility. Several adults with time and competence at the health centre, in school health services, in classrooms and in kindergartens are important to discover, so that action can be taken quickly. Help is often in the municipality where the child lives, and poor finances must not be an argument in the fight against violence and abuse. Health services must be upgraded. Anyone in contact with children must have a trained eye. They need to know what to discover, and they need to be sure of what to do when violence is discovered. When you know that there is violence, they and the person concerned must get the best possible help and quickly. Children should not have to wait for help. Violence and abuse in close relationships are serious crime, and it could and should have been prevented far more than it is today. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we're down to 718 million. kr extra for work against violence and assault. My Christmas wish is a big deal that prioritises the work against violence and assault even higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1117	In contrast to what you should believe from the debate in here, it is not politicians who create the health care system, it is the staff out there, health professionals, nurses and doctors, like vows, that give precision to the stitches, and that measure medicine – the members of the trade union, the nurses' union, the medical association and others. How we treat employees is crucial to how well the health care system is going to be. This is where the government and the right side of Norway fail. Part-time is an epidemic in our healthcare system. Very many nurses are locked to part-time – a total of 60 p.m., i.e. the majority of health professionals. At Aarhus they recently published five 20 p.m. positions as a midwife. Who survives on 20 p.m. wages? Most of all, I'll pull out a very tough lady who I met here at the Stortinget, named Madeleine. She worked as an assistant in Aurskog-Høland and wanted to do a better job for the elderly. That's why she started high school as a 22-year-old and took a letter as a health professional with a total of top characters – brilliant! She gets out, and what is she offered? - 20 pst. position. It is a shame that we treat people in this way in Norway. We can't give people jobs they can't survive. People in all positions are less ill, it gives more room for continuing education, it gives a better health care. Therefore, it is disappointing that when SV now proposes that we have better goals for more full time, the right-hand side is voting against the proposal. We also need to treat employees with permanent jobs well. Temporary employment and temporary employment agencies have become the norm in many health services. Orange Health was taken into account in exploiting nurses in the most serious way. For many young doctors, temporaryity is no longer an option – it is the most common, not permanent employment. SV therefore suggests that fixed employment should be the general rule in the healthcare system, and the right-hand side will vote for us here as well. There is a lack of respect for the fact that it is the people in the health system who create the health system, not the politicians from the Right here on the Stortinget. The staffing agencies have to get out of here. Secure employment and public temporary employment schemes to ensure staffing in small municipalities must be included. There are people who create the health system, and they deserve to be treated better than with the voiced treatment they get from the right side here today. It's full-time, regular employment and trust in health care, where we say that professionalism should be governing, not effort-driven funding, bureaucracy and measuring systems, as it is today. That's why I end by lifting the Senterpartiet and SV's proposals for more trust management in the healthcare system, because we know that there are people who create health, not the politicians here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1130	The working party acknowledges that there are still large unsolved tasks in the hospital sector, including in the area of drugs and psychiatry. So in our alternate budget, we have 1.4 billion. to the hospital sector in addition to the government's proposals. In other words, the working party is on track to reach the goal of 12 billion. kr more to hospitals during this period. Several from the government parties have said in the pulpit today that the government continues to strengthen the offer of the most vulnerable in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party refer to: ‘that the government has introduced the ‘golden rule’ that the growth of drugs and psychiatry, individually, must be greater than the growth of somatic diseases’. Last week, however, a press release came from the trustees at the Hospital for Mental Health and Addiction at Oslo University Hospital on a crisis in the Clinic for Mental Health and Addiction. ‘Where are the promises of Höie?’ was the title. The trustees at the clinic say the pain limit has been reached, and that somatics are given priority over mental health and addiction. They also fear poorer quality of patient treatment with several ticking bombs in the community, and believe that the safety of employees is threatened. One can then wonder how the government's vows on this field relate to such a description of reality from those who wear the shoe. It's not like there are promises to the government parties there's something wrong with it, but there's a lack of follow-up of them, because the reality that employees at the mental health and addiction clinic are experiencing is real. With the Alternative State Budget of the Workers Party, Oslo University Hospital would receive an estimated 146 million. kr more. It would not solve all the challenges, but it would be an important contribution to raising work also in mental health and drug abuse, because with about 500 suicides and almost 300 deaths in Norway each year, there really needs to be greater efforts. Our society should be measured by how we deal with the most vulnerable, those who need us the most, not whether we give more to those who have the most from before. At that time, care for those who are struggling with mental challenges such as drug addiction and psychiatry must also be followed up with greater efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1146	When I take the floor, I do it to link it to a majority comment that I am afraid will lead to major changes in drug and drug policy in Norway. It is a majority comment, and then it must also be understood as a looping message to the government. And I have to say that as the child's representative of the family party Christian People's Party, it is with great concern that I have followed the debate on decriminalising drug use. Liberalisation enthusiasts do not seem to take into account the warnings of professionals about what legalisation could mean for children and young people’s approach to, and use of, narcotic drugs. I allow myself in these advent times to ask if it is in the direction we want to take society, where the threshold for minors' access to drug abuse is to be reduced, and where we, as a large community, push heavy addicts in front of us to make changes to the laws that will make our young people more vulnerable to the tragic situation of heavy drug users. This is simply out of touch. Of course, we need to help heavy abusers within the healthcare system, and this is already being done to a large extent today – fortunately. But it is our duty and duty as politicians to do our utmost to ensure that the fewer of our young people end up in what we want to help abusers out of. Then legalization is not the way to go. In this case, the consideration of our children and young people must go ahead. We can't, as it said in a recent VG post, fail the whole youth and parental regeneration by drawing a small number of loud-roasted liberals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1157	We go to the festival, and many dream of a white Christmas – nice holiday days that are used by many in the woods and fields, on a trip with new skis or with steering wheels packed up on Christmas Eve. The working party wants to make it easier for more people to experience the beautiful nature we have in Norway. That is why we are strengthening the natural school bag. We know for sure that children who enjoy nature, even in their adult life, use nature as a recreational or training arena. But most importantly, there is a lot of good health in a ski trip, in a top trip or in a hike from the cottage to the cottage in the Norwegian Tourist Association's regiment. Many children dream of a white Christmas. Then I don't think about snow in the first place, but I express myself in this way to look at the possibility of limiting alcohol consumption among adults. It is serious that so many children are afraid of Christmas given the very consumption that we dear adults may have. The role of a national election is to facilitate good information on the adverse effects of alcohol. That is why I am using today's debate to wish for a good cross-political dialogue in 2018 to look at the possibility of limiting alcohol consumption. We live in one of the richest countries in the world. We're an enlightened people. But unfortunately, the biggest concern we adults have with the shelves and bottles of the Vinmonopolet is not whether we have the economy to carry it, but whether we have the ability to take as many bottles as we possibly want with us home. I don't want any index fingers or morals. But I'm going to admit the seriousness that alcohol can destroy mental health in children and adults, and at least the physical health of adults. It is health promotion to have a restrictive relationship with alcohol. I think it's great that we have a red thread in our policy for more outdoors and less alcohol consumption. With that I wish all a good Christmas, and gladly a white Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1174	We're getting older, even in the drama, where I'm from. By 2040 there are twice as many drummers over 80 as today. The strong growth begins during this ageing period. Today’s care for the elderly is not sustainable. In 2016, the City Council carried out a needs analysis against 2040, such as: covers the need for day care facilities. There is one node in each part of the city, with places and services of good standard at each node. The State grant scheme is an important part of the calculation of the municipality. Then came the state budget for 2017. It became, literally, a little bit of a blue-man's day. The right-hand party government changed the State grant scheme to new places only. A more realistic decision shall be sought for a long time. Now the Minister of Care has had a year to correct this miscarriage, but no. This Decision shall be repeated in the budget for 2018. In the position of the Health Committee, the Right Party and the Advance Party call it an over-target for improvement, and that the State takes more responsibility. The government should actually turn around, because the map doesn't match the terrain. There have been strong warnings from research teams, like SINTEF, but reality is the best proof. The needs analysis of the municipality's drama is a star example in this way. It allocates up to 75 seats at each node, based on a thorough review of the need for new sites, relocation, rehabilitation and conversion of costly building stock that is not suitable for modern operation, and replacement of rented premises. A conservative estimate shows that the Drammen, with the restriction of the grant scheme by the Right Party and the Advance Party, is at risk of losing 477 places. An equally conservative estimate, based on all of these being nursing homes, shows over 770 million lost dollars. Should everyone be in sick homes, we're approaching the billionth. The gloomy reality lies somewhere in between. There will be dramatic consequences both for elderly care and for other important services. Had it only been the Drama, but a quick round to other municipalities nearby shows that there are more. Modum has built 72 new places and has to rehabilitate 24. In Kongsberg, it is likely that 68 places will be added when the new ones are finished. Eels shall replace or rehabilitate 16 dwellings and 31 hospitals. Cradle herd must build new and rehabilitate for 100 million. kr. Stepping down subsidies in the years to come is a very bad policy, says the rapporteur in Krödsherad. The Health Committee notes that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are opposed to limiting the grant to new places only. The same is true of the Christian People's Party. The councils are wise to listen to the bulk of the population, but even smarter it is to listen to Norwegian municipalities, who know where the shoe is pressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1187	In many countries, access to good health care depends on private insurance and the size of the account. In Norway, we have built a strong community where one should be sure that the welfare community will take care of one and the family on the day you need help. Norway's motto has been and should be: Safe people bet more, we care about each other, and therefore we spend a lot of money on health. I myself am a trained radiographer and started my career at a small local hospital, Rjukan Hospital, and ended up in a medium-sized local hospital, Kongsberg Hospital. Our hospitals are important institutions in many communities. In Buskerud we have Hallingdal Sukestugu, which is an exhibition window, where the hospital cooperates closely with the municipality, where modern technology has been used to build up a decentralised hospital service – this in close cooperation with Ringerijke hospital, which has been at the forefront of hospital management and thinking about new things. At Kongsberg Hospital we have recently received a new CT machine, and that is good, but soon, in 2018, Kongsberg Hospital is missing the MR machine. This means that patients suspected of brain impact must be sent to Drammen to take a necessary examination, at the same time as a medium sized local hospital such as Kongsberg should have MR machine in 2018. If patients are too poor, the option is to drop the study. This means a lower level of health for the population of Kongsberg and Numedal. In Drammen we are going to build a new hospital on Braker Island. Finally, we agree on where to build it. Here we are to build Norway's most modern hospital, with workplaces for 4,000 employees. It will provide better health services for hundreds of thousands of people, with radiation therapy, and here we will build health clusters where Norway is at the forefront of the development of new health technologies. Already today, we see that hospitals are struggling with the manning situation. It's critical. I have recently challenged the Minister of Health several times on the unsustainable situation of pathology in the Drammen, which is central to cancer treatment. When we know that we are going to build a new hospital, and that a large part of that bill must be taken by employees – because if this Stortinget does not set up, it must be taken from the operation, already under pressure – it will go beyond the offer. That is why we are concerned about the progress of a new hospital in Drammen. The Labour Party follows up what we promised in the election campaign. We increase the hospital budgets, so that we take the daily lives of employees seriously, ensure better treatment, provide health care companies with economic muscles to buy new modern equipment, while having financial muscles to build a new, great hospital in the Drammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1202	I want to talk about the importance of rehabilitation. Unfortunately, it has been that in order to prioritise, rehabilitation is placed at the bottom of the table. In spite of the different size of the population, where a national commitment to rehabilitation has been mentioned, this field has not received the same attention or resources as for example. emergency medicine. Just above the fjord, at the Nesodden, lies a brilliant lighthouse in Norwegian and international rehabilitation, Sunnaa Hospital HF. The hospital has the vision ‘one way further’, and very many are the people who have got a way further with Sunnaas. I discovered this fully when I was sitting in a telephone panel, among other things. together with the State Council, Höie, during a television act in which you could call in and donate to income for the Sunnaas Foundation. The insides here were often family, friends, colleagues, and former patients. Common to all of them was that they were extremely grateful for the treatment and rehabilitation they had received at the hospital. It's like a life that's being saved is a life that's to be lived. We must not forget that the patient on whom the healthcare system invests large resources in the emergency phase is the same patient who is to be rehabilitated and is to come home to a new life. Good rehabilitation is about good quality of life. I've seen the significance of the job that Sunnaas is doing, in close proximity. With the Workers' Party in government, Sunnaa's hat would be close to 6.4 million. kr more than the government has entered into its budget. I am proud of the Workers' Party's willingness to invest in our common hospital building – 12 billion. kr in the next four years. We are increasing the lending framework for hospital builders, medical devices and ICT because we know that there is a continuing need for innovation and development. Now Sunnaas is starting the necessary renewal for its part, but for many of the hospitals are in too poor condition. When the government is not willing to contribute real budget increases, the common buildings and our common health care are neglected. At the same time, the government opens up so that private individuals can withdraw from the community's resources. Finally, not everyone who's equally lucky when they're unhappy and gets into Sunnaas. There are great variations in Health-Norway in the rehabilitation field. Therefore, it is also important and right for the Workers' Party to stop progressing towards a two-part healthcare service and to use the Community's resources for welfare rather than tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1222	Several of our hospitals need a necessary upgrade and renewal to meet the future needs of the patients, the relatives and the health professionals working there. Many health professionals are struggling with a tight economy, which makes it very challenging to carry out major upgrades, set up new, forward-looking building masses and invest in new technology. In my home country of Sogn and Fjordane, the health agency has significant investment plans, including: in the field of mental health protection. This is a necessary investment to enable the hospital to meet the challenges of the future. We now see through the media that Health Leader has to reduce operations by about 50 million. NOK in order to be able to raise these investments. This is a requirement, and many people are concerned that this will go beyond the service provision of the inhabitants. We see the same image in several examples. In the last few years, a large proportion of patients in Norwegian hospitals have been diverted from daily treatment to daily treatment, and this may be good for many. At the same time, it may appear that the income system has not applied to that change. So even though entrepreneurs treat more patients, income goes down. The picture for several health professionals is challenging: high investment needs in construction, medical equipment and IT solutions, reduced revenues, among others. due to the transition from day-to-day treatment, cut in framework – hidden behind the word ‘de bureaucratisation’. Yes, many health professionals are in a demanding economic situation. And up here we're going to rig the hospitals for the future. If we had adopted today the Workers' Party's alternative budget, health professionals would have received nearly 1.4 billion. kr more in 2018 than the government adds. For Health Förde, this would give about 25 million. kr more for operation. It would have been a great Christmas gift for the patients and they added to the hospitals in Sogn and Fjordane – and corresponding to the rest of the country. But the Christmas gift to patients and those added from this government is instead a hospital budget that will not allow the specialist services to better manage the more and more tasks that they are going to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1235	The development of medical technology in the field of health is taking place at a ripping pace, and there is a great deal of health research going on — on mechanisms of action, new drugs and treatment methods. New knowledge on mutagenic analysis allows for much more precise diagnosis, prevention and treatment of disease. The more knowledge we have, the better we can tailor the treatment provision to the individual patient, and so-called personalised medicine is a budget area 2018. Health research is mainly carried out in health enterprises, universities and higher education institutions, the institute sector and the private health sector. Basic research takes place primarily at universities. With its expertise and experience in diagnostics and patient treatment, the hospital has a primary responsibility for patient-oriented clinical research. However, the hospital also has a specific role for research that contributes to the transfer of results from basic medical research to diagnostics and patient treatment. Cooperation between basic research and clinical research is therefore important to test the relevance of experimental findings to clinical activities — and vice versa: bring back experience from the clinic to the laboratory. The aim of the Government’s action plan for the follow-up to Healthcare21 strategy has been to create targeted and comprehensive efforts across the value chain – from research to innovation and commercialisation. We must take a holistic view of all health research carried out, whether funded through the Research Council, the EU, within the health enterprises' own framework, from private or other sources. At the same time, we must recognise that we cannot keep up the pace of innovation if we are to prejudice an artificial distinction between private and public health research. Norway is well placed to develop a health industry that provides better health for the population while creating both knowledge and export earnings, but we must bet. Menon Economics presented the report ‘Value of the health industry’ in April. It shows that in 2015 the health industry employed 74 000 people, who traded for 123 billion. kr. The industry is highly research intensive and develops solutions to a market that grows by 6-7 pst. This year. Much was done in the previous period to facilitate increased entrepreneurship, but the health industry may have very special challenges, such as long development cycles, high risk and high costs. In particular, it applies to the development of medicinal products. In order to succeed in the health industry, we need to facilitate better interaction between the public and private sectors. In order to develop a viable health industry, which both contributes to better public health services and provides jobs and revenues that finance Norwegian welfare. Therefore, the goal of the upcoming health industry information bulletin must be to set out the course for how we should achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1250	It is time to greet home for Christmas, and here comes a Christmas greeting to Sørlanden, written on the Workers' Party's alternative state budget. Good hospital services are one of the most important communities with which to set up. The Southern Hospital must reach the deputies with approx. 200 annual works due to the economy. With the proposals of the Workers' Party, they'd get 50 million. kr more. Over four or eight years there will be money from this, money to treat more patients rather than cancel health professionals. It would strengthen the community hospital, and it would reduce the need to obtain its own health insurance. Municipal Economy: I live in Arendal, which with the Workers' Party would receive 16 million. kr more. Is this about the health budget? Of course. For the municipal politicians who want the most for Christmas are a new home, but it needs to be built and operated. This would give the State budget of the Workers' Party better room for economics. The Labour Party has promised a billion as a welfare technology billion over the next four years. We are following that in our budget. We're going to have more warm hands and smart heads in the care of the elderly, but we also need to bet on new technology, new technology that contributes to smart solutions, new technology that helps individuals to master their everyday lives more on their own, because we like to be independent, most of us. Many projects around the country need some funding to succeed. One of them is the health lab I4Health at the University of Agder in Grimstad. The Labour Party, as the only party, has its own committee comment that points to the very project I4Health at the University of Agder, and says that it ‘will be an important contribution to research, innovation and e-Health implementation’. It is therefore surprising that no other party recognises the importance this project can have for the welfare technological development in Norway, especially when the lab will exploit synergies from the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, which the Stortinget has spent many tens of millions building up through its own allocations for several years. When I4Health links research with local government home services, physiotherapy and permanent practitioners, it provides a good basis for innovation in municipal health services. When I4Health and the University work together with Health South-East, where you can use artificial intelligence to read patient records, it can actually save lives. The Health Budget of the Workers' Party is a budget for future healthcare and a good budget for Norway. Then there is also a good budget for the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1265	Health expenditure is increasing and increasing, up approx. 17 B.C.E. kr per year in the last years. Now they're up in about 10 pst. of GDP, or around SEK 62000 per capita. Of course, SV hopes and works for public welfare. Health is good – it is good to spend money on health, although it is now, of course, under pressure from private health professionals. There's another debate. What makes me a little frustrated when I see the health budget, of course, is what many others have probably thought about, that the sectors are not seen in the context. That is the case with all the budget debates and all the budgetary work. For example, health is not seen in the context of transport solutions or environmental solutions, and there is one word that sticks forward here, and that is prevention. It is absolutely essential that we see these things in context, at least a political party must see these things in context. There are alarmingly low levels of activity in the population. The outdoor organisations have done a great study of this. It was Vista Analysis that did it, partly this year and partly last year – there were two reports coming. They have seen that poor physics and little activity, of course, lead to obesity, lifestyle diseases, etc., and with lost incomes and unemployment benefits, it is a loss for society of over 40 billion. kr per year – huge numbers. We also just have to get better at putting on and facilitating physical activity in everyday life. One must not bet that people necessarily go to all kinds of training centres, because we must remember that there is also a class perspective here: Who is the one who is resource-powerful, who is it that is not? That means that we have to facilitate physical activity in everyday life. That is physical activity in school, which has been debated here in the hall just, with one hour's activity every day. We have also been in the area of health and free school food – we just heard my colleague Wilkinson, on behalf of SV. And I want to add: when you look at the transport budgets, walking and cycling routes are not just an environmental issue; it's also an activity issue. If you put it together, so that it's easier to ride a bike and go back and forth from work, it has a huge amount to say to people and to the health budget. So I just want to say it very briefly: we have to be good at raising our eyes, looking at the other budgets that we are adopting, talking to colleagues in other agencies and other sectors. We must have activity that is for the many, and not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1278	State-funded care for the elderly is a pilot project in six municipalities and implemented by the Health Directorate. The care services in these experimental municipalities are financed by the State. The project represents innovation, professional development and increased user involvement. It has been referred to as a quality reform – a whole new way of thinking. Stjørdal and Lillesand municipalities already say they want to continue the project beyond 2019. Government funding focuses on the user and his needs and can be described as an adapted care for the elderly. The nurses have said that they are more satisfied because they get to work in peace, without cuts, and they are more positive to everyday life. Project manager and financial advisor for state funding in Lillesand describes the experience with the project as surprisingly positive. The project results in hard work in the first phase, first half of the year, with 27 different decision codes. Statistics and dimensions are used for the services. This means reviewing and clearing all decisions. This gives you very good quality and useful statistics. The modern management tools of the project provide a better overview of users, their needs and all costs. This overview enhances the quality of care services. I want to remind you that the use of statistics in care is a scientific way of working, with tradition back to Florence Nightingale. Everyone in the experimental municipalities seeking help is surveyed in a two-time interview using a conversation guide. The rationale and better monitoring provide security for users and are important because uncertainty triggers many services. The user is asked: What is important to you? Thorough monitoring also facilitates prevention. The survey has led the care service to enter services earlier but starts with services at the right level of the service staircase. Before you went in too high, too fast. Now you don't go in too hard where it's not necessary. The result is more satisfied users. As a nurse, I believe that the secret behind success is the supply of funds, and that state funding is not a quick fix. The project is characterised by clean-up at startup. Even a very skilled project manager concluded that they have seen that they have a lot to learn, suggesting that someone in the Health Directorate has done a very good job. Government funding is not a common choice policy that focuses on just one or two of the users’ needs, such as: activity, nutrition or welfare technology. The characteristics of the project are that it meets all the basic needs of care that a person can have. Elder care cannot continue as a balancing item in response to the older wave, with uplifting media fate. We should leave an old system where the state owes to the municipalities, and the municipalities owe it to the state. With state-funded care for the elderly, the elderly receive the necessary care regardless of the local economy, debt or interest rate increase. Let's prioritize the gray hair! [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1297	Regional Security Section, RSA, is subject to Oslo University Hospital and located at Dikemark in Asker. The section has capacity for 22 patients, including: is admitted to the judicial daily observation according to the provisions of Section 167 of the Criminal Procedures Act. Localities in Dikemark have been difficult for a long time. Built, from 1926, drawful and cold and safety completely unsuitable for purpose. The first plans for a new building were presented in the 1980s. An on fire a few years ago could have ended quickly in disaster. Some windows cannot be closed, and in the corridors terrace heaters are installed to keep the cold out in the winter. It's not too hard to say that the Dikemark building is a shame for Norwegian psychiatry. It is therefore not without pride that I say that the Left has been able to get through during the budget negotiations to implement a preliminary project for a new construction at Ila in Bærum with expectations that the progress plans will be maintained and built to be completed in 2021. The choice of plots was based on the proximity of the prison in the area and in cooperation with the municipality of Bærum. It was set at 33 million. kr for the purpose. The draft report for the newly built project, approved by the Board of Health South-East of 15 June of this year, has now met with opposition from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, including the following: because the installation may conflict with the mark-up. Surprisingly, the concept of Ila is not better quality assured in Health South-East than this may occur, and it must be expected that the allocation of this year's government budget will give the health region the first priority to investigate the situation, possibly speeding up the work on getting a new land and being prepared to keep the Storting updated on the progress of the project. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1310	Thank you so much and you just as well!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1315	The Working Party and the Centre Party oppose the establishment of a Health Service Investigation Commission. It amazes me. I hope and believe that the opposition justifies the lack of knowledge and understanding of what a commission of inquiry is going to do. In Norway, we have survey commissions in the transport sector. That's where they call it breakdown commissions, which can easily be misunderstood. Not only are accidents being investigated, but accidents and procedural errors are also being investigated. It may be that the State Committee on Transport should change the name of the State Committee on Transport. The aircraft was first out there and established the civil aviation accident commission in 1989. That year I began as a professional pilot and had to deal with a possible examination sometime during my career, but it has been well. The purpose of a Health Investigation Commission is to carry out an objective investigation of accidents, errors and routine failures in order to establish learning so that errors are not repeated. The right will ensure high professional quality in healthcare, so that patients are given the best possible help and care. A permanent committee of inquiry will enhance professional quality. In particular, relatives have requested a study commission to improve their knowledge of the complex causes of adverse events. Some believe that the Health Directorate should be responsible for investigating adverse health incidents. I believe it is wrong that a directorate such as, among other things, is responsible for the authorisation and authorisation of healthcare professionals, shall investigate any errors that have been made in the healthcare system. If the Commission of Inquiry is to succeed, employees must be primarily independent, and those interviewed must feel fully confident that honest and sincere answers will not go beyond their authorization. Before 1989, ad hoc aviation commissions were set up. Randomly grouped groups were set to investigate accidents and accidents. They had no overall structure, and they had limited knowledge of research methods. As a result, the quality of the results varied. Today, the employees of the State Disaster Commission on Transport have a high level of knowledge of investigation methods. In addition, they have great integrity and confidence in the industry. It is essential to get good results. Previously, the police were represented in the Air Force Commission. The police assumed that something criminal had happened that had to be investigated, which led to the pilots and others involved being held back from giving honest and sincere answers. Those interviewed must feel confident that screening is used for what is meant to be: creating lessons that prevent the same error from occurring again. A commission of inquiry must always be clear that the purpose of their work is to find the cause of errors in order to introduce procedures to avoid repeating the error. The Aviation Administration has had an invaluable impact on aviation safety. A health service survey commission will have a major impact on the quality of health services. That is why I hope that the Workers' Party and the Centre will see the importance of an independent investigation commission and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1332	Then the representative entered for landing just in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1337	Actually, I should have talked about how important it is to prevent disease, how important it is for the health of people to balance social and geographical differences, and how important it is with proper nutrition and physical activity. But I have to talk about one of the biggest health threats in the world: antibiotic resistance. In Norway, we have relatively good control of antibiotic use both for humans and animals, but in many countries the situation is quite different and resistant bacteria spread rapidly. Resistance to antibiotics means that even simple infections cannot be treated, and already more than 25,000 patients die each year as a result. A British study says that by 2050 ten million people worldwide will die annually because of resistant bacteria. Lack of effective antibiotics could also lead to life-threatening infections associated with cancer treatment and post-surgical procedures. We have an action plan with a target of 30 pst. reduction in our antibiotic use by 2020. We should follow the request of the Medical Association that Norway in this field too should become a driving force internationally. In Spain, for example, 135 times as many antibiotics per kilogram of meat as are used in Norway. However, countries such as Denmark, France and Germany also have a very high antibiotic consumption in their meat production. Think about this when someone trades cheap meat outside our own borders. The prevalence of antibiotic resistance is, in fact, the health care climate crisis, and the Central Party is aiming to address this situation. We're betting on a separate package of measures against antibiotic resistance, and we're going to spend 50 million. kr extra on this in 2018. An important measure to avoid unnecessary antibiotic use is to prevent infections from occurring. Norwegian hospitals have an average hospital cover of 93 pst. It's loud. The average occupancy rate for OECD countries is 78 pst, and in the United Kingdom health authorities have covered 80 pst. as an upper limit of what is sound. A German study shows that if the patient coating is higher than 92.5 pst., it leads to increased mortality among patients and increased disease among employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1352	Good public health pays off, and an important part of public health work is to ensure good mental health in the population and prevent mental health. The centre party will work to ensure that the focus in the health sector is on prevention rather than on repair, and we will increase efforts to prevent mental disorders. Physical and mental health must be seen in a context, because physical health affects mental health and vice versa. A number of measures that prevent physical ill health also prevent mental health, such as: physical activity in school, for which I am very pleased that we have had an impact. But we must not overlook the fact that mental health is one of the greatest societal challenges of our time, and that there is a significant need for action specifically aimed at this. There is still a way to go before mental health challenges are recognised in the same way as physical distress everywhere. There's still a way to go before the taboo around mental distress disappears completely. Unfortunately, the attitudes of society to mental health challenges may make prevention work more difficult, and the provision of help to those in need is not as good everywhere. Anyone with a health problem must be taken seriously and properly followed, regardless of whether it is a mental or physical challenge. Common to all Nordics is that you are a resident of a municipality, and it is the municipality that is closest to helping to follow up its inhabitants. Good health services near people are crucial, and it is especially in the municipality of Norway that there is a need for greater efforts to prevent and treat mental health. All must be guaranteed an equivalent health provision, irrespective of their place of residence and of their social or economic situation. That's why we've added 150 million to the Center Party. kr to a municipal mental health and drug escalation plan and psychiatry in our alternative state budget. Increasing social differences are not good for public health. 92,000 children grow up in families with persistent low incomes, according to the SSB, and we know that the risk of mental and physical disorders is related to social differences. Early efforts are essential to prevent mental health problems at an adult age and to ensure that all children are given equal opportunities, and early action is also taken in the municipality. Therefore, the Central Party has increased the framework to the municipalities by 3.9 billion. kr in addition to the government's proposal, and we are adding, among other things. in 50 million. kr extra to hire more health sisters in school. There is a need to strengthen the local economy to ensure that school health services are strengthened and to strengthen the work of municipalities to promote the mental health of children and young people. This is a very important prevention and awareness-raising work. A commitment to mental health not only helps individuals; it is also a good social economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1370	In his reply, the Council of State noted that he supported what is now happening in many health care establishments, that they had to cut bed capacity in order to meet their budget limits. I'm warning you about this development. There's a whole new tradition that we're now seeing, that the cut goes so strongly into the operation of hospitals that they even have to merge departments where one had never thought of this, based on a professional argument. So I'm going to meet that it's the Center Party that just wants everything that it was before. No, this is something that has been mixed up in national health and hospital plans — that there is actually a need to increase the daily treatment of patients in Norway. It is a mistake when the Council of State makes this as if all patient treatment should now be transferred to outpatient and day care – it is a mistake. The national health and hospital plan shall contain the following: ‘There will be strong growth in both outpatient, day and day care.’ And: ‘Although the trend towards the transition to less burdensome forms of treatment continues, there is reason to believe that older people will also need more diurnal treatment in the future compared to younger patients. For the 65-year-old group, it is estimated that the need for daily and daily treatment will increase by about 60 % by 2030. This means an increased need for bed capacity.’ This is written by the government itself in the National Health and Hospital Plan. Now we have a completely different situation, where we get messages from many health professionals. Only in Haukeland there will be 50 beds cut. The Council of State defends this by now only treating patients outpatiently, and that it is old-fashioned to think about other things. That's wrong. I want to warn you about what's going on, and what the Storting accepts. Several must stand up and oppose if now the Council of State and the pluralist parties accept it. Then I have a comment about rush, which has been a big issue in this budget. I would also like to ask the Council of State to come up to the pulpit and clarify what Right-wing opinion is, because now health policy spokesperson in Right-wing has said one thing in the media and another thing here in the Chamber. Is it so that Right is for decriminalization, or aren't they? Because I see that the counter-comment from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party is on decriminalization. This is very confusing. The centre party will maintain the legal ban on drug use and possession, we will have treatment instead of help, we will not decriminalise, and we have made a proposal for a NOW where we can really go in and discuss all the issues of drug policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1388	The debate is coming to an end. People outside the walls of the Great Britain are concerned with a good health service, with a predictable health service, a health service that helps you when you need it the most, and that you get it help wherever you live, and no matter what time it is. This Christmas is a lot of things to do to work in Norwegian hospitals, Norwegian hospitals and home health care. They're the ones who do the job that makes sure we have a good health care and get the security we need. I've been allowed to work one Christmas night. I have been allowed to sit and accept seriously ill and dying patients. Knowing that we have competent people around us, that we have a health care provider, doctors and nurses who are able to meet us, no matter when it is 24 hours a day, and whether it is a celebration or not, is an important preparedness that Norway has had. I would like to thank all those who work outside – from Stortinget’s pulpit. They deserve our thanks, and we deserve to facilitate that they can do their job. I want to say good Christmas both to the presidency and to my co-representatives on the Health and Care Committee and to the Council of State. I would also like to give an explanation of vote: the Christian People's Party will support the Red's proposal on Odda Hospital. It is related to the job you did in the spring, as one also worked for this hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1401	The President will, on behalf of the Presidency, be grateful to the Chairman of the Committee for Christmas greetings and greetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1406	Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world — a small country filled with ‘required’ customers. Digitalisation is about using technology to renew, simplify and improve. It is about offering new and better services that are easy to use, efficient and reliable. Digitalisation facilitates value creation and innovation and can help increase productivity in both the private and public sectors. The government has high ambitions to renew, simplify and improve the public sector, while at the same time citizens and businesses have expectations that technology will make our everyday lives easier. The healthcare sector faces major challenges in the coming years, while each generation expects a simpler life and an even better age. And Norway needs a viable well-being. In the 2018 budget, the government will help to increase the use of welfare technologies and mobile health technologies in order to be able to strengthen users’ everyday vibrancy and to make better use of resources for health and care services. We have started the project One citizen – one journal, and we have further developed the population register, e-receptives and health cards for pregnant women. The government is investing in e-health and the digitisation of the health sector, and we also want to create the patient's online healthcare service. Ensuring national governance and coordination has been an important step in ensuring a good foundation for eHealth. Good cooperation between municipalities, county councils and the state is essential for the further development of effective services. Digital competence at all stages will be essential for development. Therefore, it is important that we also have a good basis from our education system at the bottom, with knowledge of new technologies, ICT and security, both for patients and for those who work in the various services. Right will ensure that technological development and online health services make it easier to master both own health and not least own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1421	It is well documented that a high proportion of children with child protection measures also have a high incidence of mental illness and a complex need for healthcare. Research shows that three out of four children and young people in child protection institutions and half of the children in foster homes suffer from mental disorders. Many of these children do not receive the help they need, and in 2015 a comprehensive report was prepared by the Regional Knowledge Centre for Children and Young People at NTNU, on behalf of Buffir and the Health Directorate. The findings of the report showed that young people are under-helped by the mental disorders they suffer. These young people need concrete help, which too many do not. Last year, Health Directorate and Bufdir joined the professional community and developed ten concrete recommendations to ensure that children’s protection should receive better health care. In particular, it was recommended that: strengthen general medical services and establish so-called child protection doctors; cooperation on early detection and investigation of relief needs; ensuring better accessibility of mental health services for children and young people in municipalities; strengthen the use of individual planes; The Central Party representatives Heidi Greni, Kjersti Toppe and Per Olaf Lundtegen have this year promoted a proposal for better health care for children in the field of child protection, where these recommendations have just been raised. Unfortunately, the proposal was voted down. When young people who have received child protection are 18 years old, they usually lose the help they need. Is that how we are going to treat children and young people who are in a vulnerable situation? They're going to be valid on the day they turn 18, but that certainly doesn't mean they don't need the help and care they've had anymore. Subsequent protection is therefore important and the Central Party therefore believes that it is necessary to facilitate the extension of foster home accommodation after the age of 18 years, and also to ensure that more people receive a good offer of after-care until the age of 23. The centre party has also proposed this, when the foster home message was discussed – again we were voted down. It is sad to see that no more parties see the value of focusing on prevention in this field, which will be beneficial in the long term, both for individual children's protection and for society. We have to see these kids. Prevention like this is the whole essence of the Central Party's health policy. I would therefore like to refer to our alternative budget, where it is proposed, among other things. Twenty million. kr to child protection, from the 530 mill. extra kr that we give to the hospitals strengthening the municipal framework for a total of 2,5 billion. kr a separate increased allocation of 150 million. kr to a strong escalating plan for drug use and mental health in municipalities The central party takes seriously the mental needs of the child-restraint children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1461	I find it fascinating to hear that the representative Erlend Larsen used most of his post to argue for daily physical activity. Yes, the representative even stressed that daily activity is important for public health. If I recall correctly, the representative said that there was no need for physical activity every day when we debated the matter of physical activity in school. Then the argument was that a overnight trip could fill the quota for physical activity. So I wonder if the Right has turned around, or whether they just voted against a proposal they really are in favour of. The next post I want to comment on is from the representative Synnes. Synnes addresses an important issue under the heading ‘Life can be lost while we wait’. I am pleased that this important topic is being addressed, and I would like the Council of State Höie to be even more concerned with sharing information and digitising health care. Today's Medicine, we were able to read a week ago that the Cancer Register still receives 45 pst. of its reports on paper. The pathologists register information electronically, but then print it and send it in the post to the Cancer Register. The forms are then scanned by hourly paid employees before the papers have to be crushed. Finally, the forms must be processed by medical encoders compiling the information and coding the cancer cases. This takes time, and it costs an unnecessary amount of money. I believe that there are such cases the Council of State Höie should apply. Health services need a strategy for digitisation, and I fully agree with the words that were just used, that we need a strategy that renews, improves and simplifies. Instead, the Minister of Health asks health workers to run faster, through an ABE reform that is really only poorly hidden cheese needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1474	The centre party wants people, no matter where they live, no matter what background they have, and no matter what kind of income they have, to have access to the same basic health and welfare offer. Everyone should have the opportunity to live a good life with good health. Then we have to have a prevention policy, and we have to balance social and geographical health differences. Unfortunately, today's government is doing the opposite. In the field of regional policy, the government pursues a policy of centralisation, red tape and privatisation of the Norwegian health system, a policy that gives rise to greater social and geographical differences. The central party stands for a policy that goes the opposite way. We want to reduce input-driven funding, we want to liquidate free treatment options, we want to liquidate quality-based funding, we want to go away from the system of neutral VAT in health companies, and we want to liquidate the health business model in favour of a new model of local management in all hospitals. We want away from market thinking and centralization. We want the health service of the people. We want to strengthen patient care at public hospitals, as we do in our alternative budget with over 0.5 billion. kr. And we want to renovate local hospitals, food supplies, ambulance services and medical care throughout the country, prioritizing 200 million. kr to it in our alternative budget. Once again, the government is adding up to centralization and larger units. This time it is in Helfo, where at least two thirds of today's offices have been proposed removed, among them a well-run office in Eidsvoll in my own district Akershus, with 13 employees. When the Center Party takes the fight for the local jobs and services, we are met with harelas from the government parties. ‘The centre party had been opposed to the industrial revolution’, we can read from the representative Tone Trøen in Eidsvoll Ullensaker Blade on 15 December. I'm going to promise the representative Treen and the government one thing: the centre party is going to continue the fight against centralization and for services near people, no matter what the right has to say in different contexts. I am pleased that the majority in this Chamber is moving towards the centralisation of Helfo workplaces, both in Akershus and many other places in the country. The centre party wants to strengthen services near people, we want to facilitate good health care throughout the country, and our alternative budget is a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1491	There has been a good health debate that shows clear differences, where some of us will strengthen our common health service and actively prevent disease and reduce the quality of life, which will ensure hospitals an economy that allows them to change, invest new and better treatment for patients, and not least have a community economy that improves the health care environment. But I also wanted to pull out an area we are very close to each other. The representative Synnes from the Right aroused my commitment to increase efforts for the use of health data and Norwegian biobanks. And the Minister for Health has followed up the unanimous proposal of May 2016 on a lifting for Norwegian biobanks and health records, including: putting down the Health Data Selection. They have made their recommendations, together with a partial investigation by a working group in Biobank Norway, and several proposals have been made to go further. Here, Stortinget is impatient after better treatment, more research and more development based on the data – which is gold – and the material found in Norwegian biobanks. We also want good models of cooperation with the industry, so here's the impatience that characterizes the Storting. So I'll take a short explanation of vote and some practical things. We're going out of proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, as the representative Wilkinson explained by SV. Then we will not support Red's loose proposals on Odda. The working party has been very clear that Odda is going to keep his emergency response. We have expressed this in both proposals and comments earlier, through the treatment of national health and hospital plans and through other cases. The Council of State has confirmed that this is true, both in the context of written questions by the representative Mr Grung of the Workers' Party, and lastly here from the pulpit in Stortinget. And then I also want the Committee Christmas, since other faction leaders have done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1508	Here comes the Christmas wishes – see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1513	One of the most important things that has emerged in this debate is that the government at the Council of State wants to go further in reducing hospital bed capacity. As others have said, this is contrary to the government's own national health and hospital plan. It primarily affects the elderly, who need diurnal treatment. We're not talking about outpatient activity, we're talking about bed capacity. It's people with complex disorders, it's creepy people. The government says a lot that you must have quality and professionalism in this. These are people who, to the degrees, need the quality and professionalism of the specialist health service. Municipalities are not equipped to accept even more tasks and even more demanding patients — and do a good job. Nevertheless, the Council of State here says that one should go further with this policy, which means that the mismatch between the capacity and quality of municipalities and what becomes necessary becomes even greater. I appeal to elected representatives in the municipalities to respond to this. We receive many enquiries from rapporteurs who say that this is irresponsible. It's important that more people get to it, because it's obviously a conscious government strategy to go on along this line. Otherwise I have two greetings – one for Kristiansund and one for Drammen. The government wants to sell the hospital in Kristiansund. It has to be a fundamental error. The State must have a significant activity in Kristiansund, and it must then be right that the State is master of its own house and can dispose of the premises needed in a dynamic way – based on the need. It is therefore wrong to sell it. So to a new hospital in the Drammen, which is also important. However, hospitals must not be built on unsafe grounds, and few hospitals are built on more unsafe grounds than what is now being added to the Drammen. And what's interesting is that this is where the decision in Stortinget is made before the detailed control plan is approved, before you get a proper ROS analysis, before DSB, NVE and County Commissioner have made their comments. It's an irresponsible treatment process. This will involve significant overruns, for which the government – and only the government – is responsible. And it has not yet been clarified the necessary exit from E18 and to the hospital, which also involves significant costs. This shows a planning process that is not sound and that I thought all the supervisors for Hospital Building should attend to. Here's an elegant example of what's common sense being put aside. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1525	Today’s debate has given rise to conflicting signals about the cause of decriminalising drug use and possession. Some try to make this against improving treatment provision for sick and heavy drug users. Of course it's not like that. However, the signal effect of saying that drug use should not be punishable can be a major norm, and I am afraid that that signal alone will help to lower the threshold for those who may be susceptible to drug testing, or make it difficult for young people to say no when they are offered to try. I have a lot of enquiries from both current and former addicts who have opinions about Norwegian drug policy and the necessary treatment services with a good aftercare. None of these have told me that it is important to make the use of drugs safe. Dependence on drugs hinders freedom, independence and human growth. Drug use poses challenges for individuals, its relatives and others in his or her environment and for society as a whole. Attitudes to prevent increasing acceptance of drugs in the population and early efforts to provide assistance to groups at risk are key to achieving this. How simple do you think it will be for police, schools and organisations, or for parents to take preventive action if the big community signals an embellishment? Those who have become drug addicts need help to get out of addiction, and the offer needs to be better than it is today. No one is satisfied that people lose the lives of an overdose, but why should this be associated with decriminalisation? On the contrary, will there not be a risk that even more people will need treatment by signaling such an embellishment? Several people who are in a rush commit some serious criminal acts. Many people commit crime in order to buy drugs. They must meet with attitudes that this is not right and with a treatment system that can help them back to a better everyday life. Decriminalisation is by no means the way to go for these. I would strongly urge the parties to think strongly before going into that line of softening drug policy. For the Progress Party, the fight for fewer young people to get on the slope is much more important than sending out a signal that hashish is okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1536	The representative, Erlend Larsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1541	Tuva Moflag claims that there was no need for physical activity every day when we debated physical activity in school. Moflag also claims that I said that overnight trips were enough. Tuva Moflag probably doesn't have very good memory. I said in that debate the same thing as today, that all the Northmen need to be better at being in physical activity every day. We all have a responsibility for our own health. This does not mean that responsibility should or should be transferred to schools, that it is sufficient. The problem with the decision that Moflag made was that they didn't spend time and money on physical activity in school. They only decided that it would be implemented. Physical activity must provide positive experiences that create lasting values, and it will provide the possibility of overnight trips or longer trips in forest and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1548	The representative Wilkinson was involved in this with part-time work. He was concerned about it and shot at the government. I've been a politician for 26 years, and that's not how part-time has been a problem for just the last four years. It's definitely been a challenge you've been working with locally to do something about. As a local politician, I fully agree with the intention, but I actually think one has to do a little bit more to get something done about it than what is the solution to Wilkinson. To the representatives of the Workers' Party who have been up here and talked about financing new nursing homes and nursing homes, I would like to say that this government has spent more than 10,000 places in the last four years. The previous government was able to put 4,592 places, less than half. In just one year, in 2017, more money is needed to build new nursing and nursing homes than the red-green ones did in four years. It shows that there is a strong commitment to both building new and rehabilitating towards 2020. So you want to build more new hospitals, and for the Progress Party it's important. Then I register that the representative Kjerkol and I have a different view of the situation in Stjørdal. I feel that those who work on this for a day-to-day time are very satisfied. And on the basis of the fact that government funding has been provided in the care of the elderly, a new care centre needs to be built just to give more people a good offer. So, since it's almost Christmas, I want to refer to Telemarksavias today. A few days ago I was at Meltvedt Farm in Skien and met Erik, who is in the fifties, who has had drug problems for many, many years, and who is now being allowed to join the Inn scheme on the tune. I see Per Olaf Lundtigen sitting here in the hall, and this must be music in his ears. These are good projects that help people get back and give them a good everyday life and the feeling of meaning. As Erik says, "I think of this as my job." That's why I am very happy that the committee is unanimous and clear that these are projects that we would like to see more about, that you might be able to facilitate that more dentures can also have the opportunity to be in a farm. Because it's good quality of life, and it's important for the elderly. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1563	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1568	The progress party may be confident that the Centre Party is in favour of Entering the Tune. When it comes to the interaction reform, after today's debate, I am concerned that she is getting an even greater pressure, with even more early discharge from hospitals, and that hospitals are now going to cut bed capacity without the possibility for municipalities to strengthen their supply in advance. Have they heard it before? History repeats itself – with a political acceptance. It's the worst. I had requested a new government for Christmas. We didn't get that. But the best thing about this government is she doesn't have multiples. And in the setting, there are two points of light: we've got two more numbers – and that's in important things. One is that one should increase the number of study places in medicine in Norway, and the other is that one should allow the medical students to get more practice in primary medicine. It's worth mentioning. The centre party is also out of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1579	Thank you. Then it's noted. The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1586	I couldn't leave that post from Hoksrud, because it's about a lack of respect for health care employees today when half of the announced nursing positions this year are part-time positions, only half is full-time, when we know that Madeleine, who is a health professional, only gets a 20-pst position, and when my friend Christina has got a 16.9 pst. position. I also met Toril, a midwife who gets a 40 pst position. Common to these is that you can't survive at that job. We suggest that we have more full-time jobs in health care, the government is against. We're proposing 150 million. kr in increased staffing and more full time in the municipal health sector, the government is voting against. We're proposing $25 million. kr to more full time in hospitals, and even that is the government's right against. We can't continue to have jobs that people can't survive in. It's the employees who control how well our health care system gets, and if we're going to have equal opportunities in Norway, not least for all women, because it's a woman-dominated sector, if we're going to have equal pay and equal opportunities and a good health care, then we have to have more full-time jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1595	As they say in England: The proof of the pudding is in the eating. When you listen to the debate we've had today, it doesn't sound like there's so much good in healthcare, but the fact is that the results of our policy are clear: fewer queues are waiting for them to be shorter, the number of people treated is increasing year after year, there's consistently high trust in healthcare in Norway, and people get treatment when they need it. That's what's status. Then, of course, it is in the policy that we should bring out the differences. We have made that clear here in this debate. The main criticism of government policy has now been the grant for the creation of new health care places and new care places in municipalities. We believe that the municipalities have a responsibility to clean up their homes, as well as their schools and everything else in the municipality. We're going to use the money to put new places, because that's the need for new places that are the largest. That's how we justify it. Policies are not just about what is granted, they are largely about how these resources are disposed of. More money doesn't solve everything. Political will is not just measured in dollars. One can also do things better. That is why we have a number of development measures within the budget, a number of processes in progress, in order to provide the healthcare of the future, namely the healthcare of the patient. Then I have to swing into a comment that has received a lot of mention today. I think it is interesting that several representatives use energy to see what lies in this. The fact is that the right went to the choice to transfer responses to certain drug abuses, namely possession and use, from justice to health. There was a broad debate on this, and there was also agreement between several parties. When this becomes a subject of note in the state budget setting, it was natural for the Right to add what is our primary view, namely that we want to transfer the response from justice to health. This is not a proposal to be adopted today, because it creates the impression that amendments to the law are being adopted today. This is something to be carefully investigated. But we think it's right to continue in that direction, without any revolution happening overnight. Then what's said in the media is drawn up. Well, I've listened through and looked at what I've said in the media. We have said the same thing: we want the reaction to that kind of offense to be transferred from justice to health, and then it becomes very strange to present it as if the Right is for legalization. This matter has not been served by the fact that we sow disunity between each other's interests and intentions, it is well served that we are looking for the good solutions in common. Finally, I get to say good Christmas, as my colleagues have done in a row and in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1612	I just want to point out that the representative Wilkinson was busy with full-time jobs – we are all. It is important to work to prevent part-time, that you actually get full-time jobs. I know that you work actively in health companies, municipalities and all the way, because you know it's important. As in my first post, I want to boast of all the amazing people who stand on every single day, who do a crazy good job of providing people who need care and care, the best services. Now my speaking time is over – and this is my last chance – so I get to say good Christmas one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1619	The representative Hoksrud once again had a tribute to Inn on the tune-yards. I'm very happy about that. The problem, however, is that so far all initiatives for the Introduction of Tuna are largely linked to projects, they are linked to alternative funding. If the majority believe that the form of treatment or encouragement that can be provided in such places makes sense, it should be included as part of the school system and as part of the health care system as a matter of urgency, so that there is regular funding. If not, ad hoc measures remain that do not have the necessary long-termity required by such conditions. So to the representative of Stensland, who says that more money doesn't solve everything. No, we quite agree with that. Therefore, the Centre Party strongly focuses on organisation, culture and management. Therefore, we strongly focus on the fact that it is the result that counts, not how one comes to the result and all the reporting and counting arrangements associated with it. It is therefore quite special that the parties to the Government are not on proposal No. 30, about a reform of trust, and which should be right in the heart of what was previously a conservative ideology, that of trusting people. So to drugs: what I understand the government parties here are doing is that a person wants to put more emphasis on the rehabilitation or health services needed for those people with drug problems. It's the Center Party's agreement. I guess that's also what's supposed to be going from justice to health. But for the Central Party, legalizing drugs is completely out of date. We are talking here about responses to drug use, which are reactions that indicate that this is not lawful. Under that regime, an increased emphasis is given to what is essential, namely that the health offer needs to be reinforced. It is at the heart of this, on the part of the Central Party, that it is still illegal, but that one adopts measures to make people more able to get out of it. All the experience shows that that's the way to do it. So it's treatment under compulsion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1629	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1634	Thanks to Mr Lundtigen, who has taken a very constructive approach to the debate on drug policy. It could have been an example for more people, by looking for how to find the good solutions, and by believing that colleagues actually want the best, even though the goals may be different. We're not done with this, and we're going to have a good opportunity to work on it. So to proposal No. 30, to which it refers, on trust: we cannot have it so that if we vote against a proposal for a reform of trust, we do not want to give confidence. We actually trust -- through the business model, which we believe in. It is managed through business meetings, through health enterprises, and it is the system behind which the majority of the Storting stands. So the fact that we don't go for that proposal is actually an expression that we have confidence in the system as it works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1644	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1660	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1676	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government and up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1689	This is the first debate of the Education and Research Committee during this major period, and I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the representatives as members of a very important committee, which has the responsibilities of kindergarten, school, higher education and research. One of our most important tasks is to ensure that the society we deliver to our children is in a better constitution than what we took over. Among other things, we must: ensure that there are jobs in the future for those starting school in the next few years. If we are to be able to maintain and further develop today's welfare society, we depend on more people to work longer, and more people to work. Our job as education policy makers is to get the most through school and make sure that as few people as possible fall from it. The money we manage in this budget, for example. early intervention, money is saved — in 20 years’ time — on social assistance, labour market measures and unemployment benefits. The kindergarten field has now moved into our committee, where it belongs naturally. The fight against high school dropouts already begins with early work in kindergarten. The main initiatives in the kindergarten field during this government period are increased quality in kindergarten, more kindergarten teachers, a more flexible admission, increased right to space and a fully equivalent treatment of municipal and private kindergartens. Almost 300,000 go to kindergarten, but too many are very expensive. That is why we have two schemes that ensure that those with the strongest shoulders carry the most weighty weight in economic terms, so that there are cheaper kindergartens for those who have the least. It means thousands of dollars in the savings of kindergarten expenses for many families, and it's one of the things I'm most proud of that the government and the cooperation parties have done. Yesterday I had the pleasure of opening a conference on future education. Innovation and technology are important in all areas of society, and there is no doubt that today's young people need digital skills to function well in future societies. But we have to remember what underpins all innovations, all technological advances: it's reading, writing and billing. The basic subjects are what must work optimally. It applies today, and it will apply in future education. If children do not learn to read, write and calculate well, they are likely to fall from later school. That's why I'm glad we've put a lot of effort into more teachers and improving teachers' skills. Teachers have the world's most important job. Those are the ones who annoy the curiosity of the kids, can give the kids a sense of mastery, both in the classroom and in the schoolyard, and they can help our kids succeed, and that later in life they are equipped to make tough choices and choose education that we need in the future. Although we do not know everything about the working life of the future, we know that we will need good craftsmanship for many years to come. The technology is not ready to take over the job for the carpenter, for the health worker or for the car mechanic. That's why a master letter should be as respected as a master degree. The Party is committed to strengthening and practicalising the professions and to facilitating the teaching of more than one profession in the school. We need people who have had a hammer in their hands for thousands of hours of work, or who have made car this year after year, to provide students with even better education in the subjects they have chosen. We continue to invest in the professional sector. 2018 will be the year of the professionals. The goal is far more apprenticeships, so that more people have a place to learn. The SSB estimates that we'll need almost 100,000 skilled workers in 20 years. At the same time, we know that approx. 9 000 applicants did not receive a course last year. This is the labour force that Norway needs. Fortunately, the latest figures show a positive trend. They show that we're on the right track. The counties are doing a good job, and the work life involves more apprentices. Finally, I would like to say that the Progress Party believes that the oil sector will provide us with many good years and big revenues in the future. No later than today, we could read that new oil projects in 2017 are creating 100,000 new annual works. Nevertheless, the future is uncertain. It's going to be less money to distribute to us politicians. We need to increase value creation, and then we need to improve the framework conditions for those who are the value creators. We have to lower taxes and taxes even more, we have to continue with a historical commitment to transport, and we have to give incentives to get value-creating investment in research and business. There was much more I would like to spend my time on, but five minutes goes by quickly. In short, I can say that after four years of civil administration, Norwegian school is on its way in the right direction. The students learn more, they are more present and more complete high school. That's a good starting point for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1719	It was interesting to hear the chairman’s comments on – as he said – this first debate. The criticisms made at the school in the budget must be seen to be the impact of the Left and Christian People's Party. There is talk of lifting a professional profession, but I do not see any new measures in the budget. It is worth mentioning that in its budget, the Labour Party has devoted a billion more to the professional sector and has many new measures. The debate on the government platform shows a bit the same thing. The progress party has gone high on the track and said that one has four demands for negotiations – there is no one about education. So I'm actually wondering if it's going to mean something purely political that the Progress Party wanted to get the committee leader on the Education and Research Committee. Steffenssen has stated in both the media and here today that professional subjects should be raised in particular. In the negotiations for a new government platform now: does the Chairman of the Committee believe that the Progress Party should fight for the impact of professionalism, or should he choose tax cuts and more?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1726	I am not going to advance the work of a government platform, but it is quite clear that school is also an important field of initiative for the Progress Party. If the representative Tvedt Solberg had read more than just one news item, he would have seen that Siv Jensen has also said that she wants school to become a much more important matter for the Progress Party in the election in 2021, that we are very concerned about trying to lift up the particular profession and fight against apostasy in high school, and that there will be important areas for us in a new government platform. But then it's also important for us to bet on reduced taxes, as I mentioned in my post, and to have a historical commitment to transportation, because it's about those we're training today, having a job to do in the future. We then need to ensure better framework conditions, so that we can strengthen competitiveness and that no more companies are flying out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1731	I do not feel that there is any answer to what was my basic question, because when we now go into much more difficult times, as Minister of Finance Siv Jensen talks so much about, where there needs to be more priority, there is no doubt that the Progress Party has pointed to completely different areas of action when these elections are to be taken. It is Siv Jensen himself who has said that of the demands of the Progress Party is included in the government negotiations, no one is involved in education. We have heard that the years will come for professionals – there are still no new measures. There's been 2 500 fewer students in the profession, and there's a huge need for teachers, so there's plenty of things to tackle that we see this government hasn't done. So I want to challenge again to answer the question: when there are now more urgent times in the budgets – it becomes more difficult to give priority to where the funds will go and what to spend money on – can we now believe that things will be different, that there is something that will change, and that the Progress Party will go seriously in the fight to prioritize the professions, which they have not done in the last four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1736	First I have to clear up a manifest error that the representative Tvedt Solberg came along with. He says there's 2 500 fewer in the professional field. The reason is that ‘media and communication’ has changed from professional to study-specific. It was 2,900 who applied for it this year, compared to 3,100 last year, so it's about the same thing, you've just changed where the students belong. So when the representative says that nothing happens in the professional field, it is wrong. Vocational and vocational schools are strengthened by nearly 70 million. NOK, 638 new places of study in specialised schools, we are increasing the recruitment of apprenticeships, and we are going to give more professionals the opportunity to host companies. There is absolutely a lot happening in this field, but it happened very little during the eight red-green years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1743	The representative Steffensen was very concerned with the trades, crafts and tradesmen. There are many of us who are concerned about it, there are many of us who want one to bet more strongly on it, and like the Workers' Party, the Centre has added a quarter of a billion in addition to the professions of next year's state budget. The right hand and the Advance Party point out in the proposition and the setting that 2018 is the Year of Professionals, and then it is nice that a grant of 5 million is granted. kr to some school competitions that you are going to attend. However, the problem is that it is important for professionals that a person allocates money to, for example: equipment. Equipment in the professional field is a particular challenge for a part of the line, which can be particularly resource-intensive, but one will not even be involved in it – one will not at all be involved and look at the possibility of top-level financing of this type of particularly resource-intensive professional line. Why is the Progress Party so very negative about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1748	First of all, I would like to congratulate the representative Arnstad on the fact that the Central Party is presenting better budgets in opposition than what they were doing in position. With regard to equipment in secondary schools, we do not agree with the proposal to investigate it, because a report was carried out by 2015 which shows the need in secondary schools. For us, it is important that money be followed up for municipalities and county councils, so that they can spend more money in secondary schools. The local government sector has grown in real terms over the four years, with more real growth than in the four years before. Otherwise, the most important thing in the field of vocational education is, of course, that we ensure that students have a place to complete their education. That is why we have greatly increased the apprenticeship grant in the years we have been sitting, while it stood still in the years when the representative Arnstad was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1757	The government is now increasing the maximum price in kindergarten to NOK 2 910 a month. Siv Jensen was one of the coroner's mothers, and the fact that the Progress Party is going in today to increase the maximum price is, in my opinion, a breach of the agreement. According to the kindergarten agreement, the maximum price was to be NOK 1 750 in 2005 and if the SSB consumer price calculator is used, it shows that NOK 1 750 in 2005 corresponds to NOK 2 200 in 2016. So the maximum price is going to be approx. 700 kroner higher until next year than 2005. Does the representative of the Progress Party believe that the Progress Party is violating the Kindergarten Agreement as they increase the maximum price in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1763	As I mentioned in my post, some of what I am most proud of is that we have carried out, the need test of the price in kindergartens. It means that the maximum price increases slightly, so that those with the best income have to pay a little more, so that those with the lowest income get thousands of dollars in reduced parental costs in kindergarten. I am proud to have joined, and I am a little surprised that the opposition voted against this when we promoted it in December 2014. It's a little misunderstood socialism, where SV fights against getting cheaper kindergartens for those who have the least, while fighting for much cheaper kindergartens for those who serve the most – a very strange policy that SV stands for. I think they should actually agree more with the policy we are pursuing, with reduced parental pay for those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1773	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation at the beginning of this period, the new Chairman of the Committee on Permanent Management and the Committee Secretary for having released us safely through the budget harvest. The working party wants a school that sees the whole student, because that's how students learn best. We want a school that gives time for learning and trusts the teacher, a school that prepares our children for the future work life, a education policy that balances differences. One of four students does not complete or consist of secondary schools in normal time. It's a social problem that we've made a 13-year-old school run that so many people don't complete. And most of all, the problem is for those young people who go into a working life where there are fewer and fewer opportunities for them without education. Many challenges are unsolved, but the government does not use the ability to equip Knowledge Norway for the future. We have to tackle all parts of the education system. Early effort starts in kindergarten. We clearly say no to the unsocial increase in the nursery price of the government while at the same time helping to improve quality. The most important for better quality are several qualified adults. Where the government proposes minimal growth in the proportion of kindergarten teachers, we want half of the employees in kindergartens to be educators. We suggest more teachers at school, more intensive early learning through a reading, writing and computing guarantee and a more practical school. The working party proposes a much stronger effort against bullying and harassment to provide young people with hard work, help. We want a healthy school meal and physical activity because health, learning and good opportunities in life are interrelated. We propose a professional billionaire for better equipment and more practice early for students. Barnhage, school and education are the winners of the Workers' Party's alternative state budget. We're proposing over $2.50. kr more than the government for education and research – of 2 billion. to improve the learning and quality of children and young people in kindergarten and school than does the Right and Advance Party have in its draft budget. There has been a pattern in recent years in which government boasts of having implemented policies it has not even proposed or been in favour of. An increasing number of education policy initiatives have been taken by the opposition to the Stortinget. The government has first been against or uninterested, but has gradually had to follow: teacher density and standard, digital strategy, early efforts, skills reform, lucky facial features – examples are many. We now have a government that does not lead the school policy, but that follows. I believe that the state budget is an expression of a government that has run out of ideas and lacks new visions for the school – an empty budget, as Dagbladet called it today. Many challenges are unsolved, but the government does not use the ability to equip Knowledge Norway for the future. In five years, the Right Party and the Advance Party have spent 1 000 billion oil crowns, more than all other governments combined, but the school results are missing, new initiatives are missing. One of the major challenges we are facing is a teacher crisis, now updated by the decision on teaching standards, and more and more students are meeting an unqualified teacher in the classroom. The government has currently no good plan to solve it. The Labour Party will recruit more teachers and will have measures to reduce the drop-out in education. Over 20,000 students reported being bullied in the last school year. It is fine that the government has made the laws against bullying clearer, but the 2018 draft budget does not have any new proposals for action. The Workers' Party proposes a reinforced bet against bullying. Since Erna Solberg became Prime Minister, the number of students in the professional field has fallen by 3000 students, and that figure has been adjusted for the education ‘media and communication’. That is why the Labour Party believes that there is a need for a boost for the professions, a professional billionaire, this period, which we put into our budgets. The right is talking about competence, but the government's competence reform is limited so far to a new website. It doesn't just keep talking about competence, you have to bet on it. That is why the Labour Party allocates 100 million. more than the government of a real reform of competences. If the pattern persists and we are still going to have a government that follows in school policy, at least the Labour Party – and I expect the rest of the opposition on the Stortinget – will be ready to propose new policies that can inspire the government to make a new effort at least a little bit on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1808	After hearing Mr. Henriksen's comments, it's really hard to understand how to think that early efforts are important while cutting 300 million. kr to private kindergartens in their alternative state budget. About half of our kids go to a private kindergarten. We have now put in place framework plans for everyone, both municipal and private, the same with the standard of manpower and the standard of pedagogical density, and we know that actors like the foundation Kanvas lie ahead, with 50 pst. pedagogical density. We know that they have tariff agreements, low sick leave, high user satisfaction and at all a very good track record of quality. Then it becomes a very central question to hear how the Workers' Party believes that a cut of 300 million. kr may help to strengthen the possibility of more pedagogical staff or, for example: provide a boost to the quality and content of private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1813	The working party is for the equal treatment of public and private kindergartens. I believe that the right really asks the wrong question. The question that the Right should ask itself and the Progress Party is why they are not too demanding for private and public kindergartens. Today, the same requirements do not apply, for example: in the case of opening hours, the number of weeks the nursery must be open, quality or that the municipalities must actually guarantee room for children with special needs. The working party is in favour of non-discrimination, but we are in favour of a single principle – a level playing field that offers a level playing field. Private kindergartens are important. About half the country's children go to private kindergartens. We believe it is right that municipalities should be able to secure the same framework as children in public kindergartens. Let's add 357 million. kr more to kindergartens than the government does. It means more places, it means more pedagogues in kindergartens, and it means more quality. It's because we're actually willing to spend money on it -- not just money you spend on cutting the maximum price and moving it over to other measures, but new, fresh money to the kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1820	I register that the Workers' Party no longer believes that private kindergartens should participate in this team. It has been proposed to reduce the rate from 100 pst. to 96 pst. It's not equalizing. It would be better to set the same requirements, but you don't choose to do so. You cut, for example. $8,000 for the little children, and it'll definitely go down on the quality. But we can continue in a number of other areas of criticism brought forward by the Labour Party, for example. ABE reform. It is widely criticised that there is an ABE reform that goes beyond, for example. the higher education sector. But when you read the alternative state budget of the Workers' Party, you find no sign of a plan to reverse it. Through the budgetary agreement that we have now delivered, we have actually helped to strengthen a basis that makes it really quite strange to see the criticism of the Workers' Party, which does not choose to follow up in words and actions. How can the Labour Party, on the one hand, criticise and, on the other hand, cannot at all follow up on its own policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1829	With regard to the rates in private kindergartens, the Workers' Party's proposal for adjustments will be approx. the same grant as in 2015, and then there was no crisis for private kindergartens. But if it is such that these signals mean that the Right now is to make the same demands – similar demands on private and public kindergartens – we accept that offer with joy. We've suggested it before. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been opposed. With regard to the ABE reform, the Workers' Party will also strengthen basic funding. We say no to increase the cut from 0.5 pst. to 0.7 pst., and we believe that the Storting should take an overall discussion of whether this is actually the right way to run an entire sector. We don't think it is. We've been on those cuts in previous years because there was room for efficiency improvement, but now even the sector is saying that this goes beyond professionalism and quality. If the representative Gudmundsen or Right does not want to take my word for it, you can read the leader of the VG today, who says that this efficiency cut to the Right, which is really a flat cut, is first and foremost a piece in the budget negotiations, but little professionally thought about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1836	The school-level teacher standard now adopted by the Stortinget creates the need for more recruitment measures to increase access to qualified teachers to fill Norwegian primary schools in line with the new norm. On the basis of the figures available, it falls from 20 pst. The first year the teachers are at work. If you manage to keep a larger share in school, it will seem recruiting, in our opinion. The Christian People's Party has proposed a mentoring arrangement in our alternative budget to give a mentor in 20 pst. position to provide guidance and feedback to all new teachers in the first year of their practice. Could the Workers' Party support such a scheme as one of the recruitment measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1841	Let me first say that it is well done by the Christian People's Party to get the government involved in something that they strongly oppose, namely a teaching norm. We are now concerned that the teaching norm is properly implemented, that the government likes to stop talking down the impact of the Christian People's Party, but rather finds out how to set up a teaching norm in a way that gives students the best possible learning. When it comes to recruitment, it's clearly a challenge when the numbers show that 64 pst. by newly educated teachers, in fact, are in the teacher's job five years after completion of education. It's a huge non-response that we have to do something with. Better guidance for students is clearly a workable measure. The majority unanimously decided in the previous period that it would be done. The government is now working on that matter. We have not included that measure in our State budget. It's because we wait and see what kind of solutions the government comes with. But on the question of whether there is something the Workers' Party can consider to be involved, it is absolutely that, provided that there is a proper and good device on it, because we believe that guiding students, following up newly educated teachers better, is absolutely an important measure to get more people to continue in the profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1848	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1854	Fortunately, we are approaching the end and may soon wish us a good Christmas. As we stand here at the end of the year, I have to be able to say that it is very happy to note that we are now putting behind the fifth budget unit on the civil side since the government change in 2013. So we've delivered one of the bigger promises for the knowledge society ever, and today we're continuing to focus on early work, the professions, higher education and a strong commitment to research. We've been talking about the need for early action for a long time, but it's only after the government change and the following years we've gone from late to early action. Although we can discuss the scheme, there is no doubt that the budgetary agreement will once again build up under a solid uplift for the pupils, for more teachers, for increased early work and for primary school, but also for the quality and content of kindergartens. No children are too young to be seen by our four parties, and I am proud that we are pointing out a course where learning is in focus, where all children will experience mastery feeling and develop a learning joy. We already see signs that our kids are learning more. From the introduction of the Knowledge Promise to the commitment to teachers — on several teachers, on further education, on the master’s degree, on qualifications, on teacher specialists, to mention something — we now see that Norwegian school is evolving to become ever better. We've seen a cultural change from a time when we talked about what we were doing in Norwegian school, to focus on what we get out of Norwegian school. The renewal of the profession and the commitment to the community and to the teaching profession will in future provide additional opportunities to follow-up the individual student and to help all to gain opportunities in the school cycle. Possibilities are created in the classroom, not through detailed management from an office in Oslo. It should therefore be borne in mind for some that, while 600 temporary teachers were given in high school for eight years, a budget for nearly 1800 more teachers in high school has now been provided in a few years. Last week's number and GSI confirm this promise. It should also be borne in mind that where the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have delivered a triple bet on quality measures in the kindergartens, the Kutter Arbeiderpartiet now reaches 300 million. NOK to the private kindergartens, i.e. NOK 8 000 per child in the small step – not exactly what we can call a strengthening of early efforts. There is sometimes a long way between word and action. Norway is in transition, and as a small country in a global economy, our knowledge commitment will be the key to, and the very prerequisite for, our success in the future. I would therefore also like to point out that in 2018 we are following up with a promise and a strengthened commitment to the professions. Through our budgetary settlement, we have put in place the lifting of time for the apprenticeship grant, as well as strengthening practice correction, hospitation schemes and the Lektor2 programme, demanding apprentices in state tenders, and taking greater responsibility for apprentices in state enterprises. In addition, our high-quality initiative and the lifting of the colleges. In 2018, we will follow up with several study places, and a number of initiatives have already been taken to ensure the development, quality and content of the education team. So, in sum, we've raised the professions more than ever. We also have a professional investment, which has seen a significant change since the government change in 2013. So together on the civil side, we have, for example, raised the apprentice's allowance by NOK 21 000 after the nearest standstill for eight years. No demands were made on apprentices either then, the funding of the vocational schools was constantly weakened as more students came in, and the framework was about the same. If we are to succeed in the future, we must also have world-leading university, university and research environments. Through structuring, we have secured more powerful environments in the international competition we face. We now provide a solid budget for higher education and follow-up and complete the long-term research and higher education plan. We are pleased to note that our research and development efforts have passed 2 pst. of GDP, and it shows that our policies, combined with the growth of industry, have given a strong and historic boost to innovation and development. This is good news, which puts Norwegian business and our research communities in a better position to meet the future. There is little doubt that we have delivered and deliver solid knowledge budgets over many years, and also into 2018. That's how we equip our kids and our well-being and secure the business for the unknown future. It ends with cutting rest, late effort, lack of vocational training and quantity rather than quality in kindergartens. The knowledge budgets are now managed by parties with great ambitions for our children and Norway’s opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1873	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1878	33,000 experienced teachers will be separated from today's government. Competence requirements have been given retroactive effect and those teachers who are not re-trained by 2025 will no longer have an approved education. How the government will manage to implement this promise at today's pace is a question I have to ask the representative Gudmundsen. In addition, the funding of this competency enhancement package, according to the teachers I'm talking to, is unfair, and it's not fully funded. What does the representative say to these teachers who are now becoming unqualified and who do not have a good funding solution on the table to implement the requirements of the Right-wing Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1885	First of all, I would like to say that the competence requirements are primarily to ensure a good school – that we should have well-qualified teachers, and that we should have fewer unskilled teachers in education. It is about investing for the future, through competence for quality – which was also a policy implemented by the red-greens and was behind both the content, funding and the device, but which we have significantly strengthened, by increasing both the rate and not least the state share and also tripled the number of teachers offered. This means that we are now passing 6,000 teachers only in the current year who receive offers of continuing education, which helps to ensure that, over a decade, we are actually at the pace of as much as 60,000 teachers who receive further education. I would like to remind the representative that the number of missing fillings is in excess of 30 000. I mean in this way – combined with a number of other important subjects it is important to get a lift for within the school – that we are on a good path, and that we have a good plan to just achieve the goals and ensure that our children get the best conditions for a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1890	The representative Gudmundsen continues the trend of government parties to boast of measures others have pushed through. It's interesting to see that the Right has had a kind of rhetorical shift as they get pressured into education policy. It has become increasingly unclear in the last year what the Right believes about teachers. The mantra from the Right in previous years has been that there are no more teachers, but better teachers who are important – the teachers' professional skills. An example of this was when the Minister of Knowledge in the 2015 election campaign, in a debate at the Education Association, was asked what the three main measures for the school were in the election campaign. He did not mention any early effort or more teachers. Today, after the breakthrough of the Christian People's Party in recent years, Right says that you are for more teachers. However, the right argues against a teacher's norm and in its five budget proposals has not provided funds for a single teacher. It's a rhetorical shift, not a political shift. So the question is, what is Right Policy? Neither party program nor government budget proposals suggest that the Right is for more teachers in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1899	I think the representative Henriksen has quite a selective memory. First, the Right has said that the most important thing we have to do is to give priority to a knowledge promise among the teachers. The teachers themselves have also wanted that. Seven out of ten teachers have had a wish for this for a long time – quite understandable, all the time the bet of the red-green government was almost completely lacking, and very, very many teachers who wanted to take further training did not get it. There is no doubt that research suggests that the relationship teacher–student is one of the most important priorities for achieving a quality level in Norwegian school. We've never said that more teachers are not a good one, but when you're a politician, you have to give priority to making a substantive promise, we're, of course, the most important thing first. Then it is interesting to look at the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, which does not follow up, among other things. its own teacher's vows on the number of teachers. Speaking of 3,000 in the election campaign, only 1,000 are now being delivered in this alternative budget. You talk more about food and about physical health and prioritise the big money on everything else than quality and content.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1906	I believe that the representative's reply here shows the need for the Workers' Party's proposal over several years, namely a read, write and calculate guarantee. Among other things, when the Workers' Party has talked about more teachers, we have said 3,000 more teachers during the period. We're overfilling that in our alternative state budget now, with 1,300 more teachers in school. I would like to thank the representative for the answer, but that is not what I asked for. I asked what is Right Policy – Party Programme or State Budget – what suggests that the Right actually wants more teachers in school, after five state budgets and not a single new teaching position. A decision on the standard of teachers has now been adopted in a budget settlement. That means that the recruitment challenge we see in school really comes to light in the next few years. Then I would like to ask the representative Gudmundsen and the Right what kind of action in the state budget he thinks helps to increase the recruitment of teacher training and to reduce the decline in teacher training that we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1915	Firstly, I believe, once again, that the representative Henriksen has a rather selective understanding of our state budget. What was presented was a significant million bet: 300 million. kr for early effort, an increase from 2017. We want the local authorities to have money, so that those with their shoes can set up and target the money, through smaller groups, more teachers or other measures that they think are most useful. Because it's about ensuring that the school owner has room for action to create a better school, and we know that there are different measures that can work in there. So at the same time, we have a historic promise. I'm very proud that we from the four bourgeois parties have managed to get the time to work early in the nursery. It is incredibly important for us to succeed in lifting our kids, so that we can later see that they can fill up and complete and pass advanced education, and finally – and that is what it is all about – give our kids the opportunities they need to succeed and get a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1922	We're all concerned with increasing teacher density, but in the discussion of teacher norms, there's a lot of us that's been a little bit in doubt. We've been in doubt because we're a little bit unsure: does that mean that there's going to be an increase in learning outcomes? No, says the Statistical Central Bureau, which published a report earlier this week. Could this mean centralisation? Yes, say many forces, including the Department of Marines, I understand. Does it involve the detailed management of schools? Yes, say the principals. Is this a shining example of politicians not constantly pursuing research-based policies? Yes, Højre's former Minister of Education Kristin Klemet, who spoke at the Norwegian Lektorlag's annual meeting recently. Many of us would have thought that these issues had deserved a broader and better review before possibly introducing a norm. My simple question is: why does the Right now suddenly think that it is a good proposal to introduce a teacher's norm?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1929	We have now included in the budgetary agreement that we should have a close evaluation and follow-up to this decision, and the Right has also pointed out that there may be specific challenges in implementing the norm, including: with regard to the recruitment of teachers. At the same time, the four bourgeois parties have also put in place quite solid recruitment efforts. I believe that just introducing a master’s education for teachers and introducing character requirements for admission itself have meant that we have seen a significant strengthening of the teaching profession’s reputation – among others. through the fact that the University of Tromsø, which has had a pilot project on this very thing for some years, has seen a record increase. I'm pretty sure that as the master's degree is now in progress, we'll see that a lot more students will apply for the teaching profession. We also have, among other things: a grant scheme has been put in place to provide you with $50,000 in scholarships if you complete a standard-time teacher training, you will receive another $50,000 if you choose to apply for a child’s education — where it is important to ensure recruitment — and you will receive another $50,000 if you take a job in North Norway after finishing your education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1938	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1944	Thank you so much to the Cooperation Committee. There is no doubt that the UFO Committee is awaiting an exciting period. Processing the state budget has been a teaching process, where we have to put pressure on and turn towards a wild development. The Centre’s ambitions – for children and young people, kindergartens and schools, educational institutions and workplaces – are based on a solid municipal economy. That's where we spend the most money, while in the Ministry of Knowledge's budget we put on more targeted measures. Practical and theoretical interests should be stimulated to the same extent, and we will fight for real training provision also for trainees. It starts with the teacher. The central party believes in trust-based management in the school sector. We know that the teacher is important for the student's learning outcomes. We must then give priority to trust and quality over results and target management. There's too much in school that can't be measured. Student motivation and development are not linear or coordinated; it is individual and unpredictable. The students are growing and developing differently, and it must be the school's room for it. By creating more teaching positions, teachers get more time per student. This ensures better follow-up, for example: the basic skills of reading, writing and billing combined with oral and digital skills. Then the students will have to know that the skills will be useful in the future, for example. The digitisation of the whole of Norway is under way. Technological advances make us world leaders in several fields. It's driving the welfare community and the business world forward. Encoding as an elective subject in school seems to be successful. It engages and develops the digital competence of students. We are continuing to focus on this in our alternative state budget. The Centre Party shall continue to pursue a genuine professional career. We have worked for a number of years to improve the recognition of practical competence. We have proposed many measures to increase the quality of vocational training, remove obstacles in the system and increase the motivation of students to choose just a professional course. The drop-out in secondary education is too high. The greatest disqualifications are in the professions. We believe that the school should have a greater responsibility for the students of apprenticeship. By means of the exchange models, etc. the schools must follow up the students until they have completed their diplomas. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes a separate grant scheme for closer follow-up and dissemination of pupils at individual schools. In total, we also add a quarter of a billion on the table to a real professional lift. In this context, the equipment promise for resource-intensive subjects. Little is so discouraging that the equipment you meet in the classroom does not keep up with the equipment you meet in the workplace. The centre party is proud of the free school principle and will compensate for the differences in costs by increasing the amount of equipment. For training to be relevant, it is important that students have up-to-date equipment. The centre party also proposes a separate pot from which schools can apply for grants from specific cost-intensive equipment. The labour market needs vocational schools. The centre party believes that the subject schools should be given a higher priority. The training should have a learning score and should be recognised as a higher vocational education. The Central Party believes that the labour market needs more people to take this training, while the training is suitable for more than those who find their way there today. There are also no relevant vocational education courses for all industries that demand professionals. We're serious about that and want to turn up the number of places to study, and we're going to set aside funds for 1,000 new college places. This is part of Education for the future. Education, research and innovation shall drive the development of the country in the future. The Centre Party prioritises new study places in the UH sector, regional innovation and research. We're betting, for example. on ICT, aviation, music therapy and medicine. Students need conditions to be able to implement the study services that we charge. The Centre Party prioritises student welfare through both more housing and higher health care spending than the government has. Knowledge actors for the future deserve good framework conditions, and the Center Party will work to give them. The Centre Party shall promote a budget which takes theoretical and practical skills seriously. We will take the whole country into service, provide the labour force it needs, and last but not least have an offer where there is room for all students with pressure and rotation against equal valuation of practitioners and theorists. With this, I take up the suggestions that the Central Party is making and promotes in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1975	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1982	Since the right came into government, we have been busy creating a knowledge school with more learning and greater opportunities for Norwegian students. We have done this by prioritizing the most important thing first: early efforts and more good teachers. But where the Right in Government rigs Norway to meet the future's skills needs, the Center Party will reverse. We have introduced five-year-old master's education, which the teachers themselves asked for, and which will mean more practice, professional immersion and digital competence. The center party will reverse. We have introduced new career paths for the teachers in the classroom, so-called teachers specialists, with whom the teachers themselves are pleased. The center party will reverse and cut. How does the representative Knutsdatter Strand feel that the Central Party's policy on reversing in school is right to meet tomorrow's need for more knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1989	Thank you for the question. It's impressive to hear that the Right has read our alternative state budget to point and point, while at the same time you think that what we're doing is to reverse. I totally disagree. What we're doing is betting. Unlike the Right, we recognise one of the problems that can be the greatest for Norwegian school in the time to come, namely the lack of teachers. Where the Right answers that it is going to be more difficult to complete the education – five-year master's education, it is going to be more difficult to enter and celebrate in mathematics – where the students of pedagogics themselves say that school credits had been a much better solution, the Centerpartie answers to hear them. And when it comes to the separation of thousands of teachers, we think it's the opposite of investing in trust and quality. It's the opposite of taking students' needs seriously. Because it's just the teacher that's the key to teaching the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1994	I noticed that the representative did not answer the question. I notice that the Center Party is so eager to reverse and cut that they ignore the knowledge and disregard the report that came today, which shows that the teacher-specialist system has worked. The teachers and the schools are well satisfied, the principals state that there is a better culture for learning, and that the scheme contributes to more good teachers wanting to stay in the classroom. Therefore, the government has proposed to extend the scheme. But the centre party will reverse and cut, so I'm going to ask the representative again: why would the centre party cut off a scheme, an attractive career path, which contributes to recruitment, and which can discourage teachers from applying for school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e1999	I have to admit that I have not bothered to read the report that was presented today, but the centre party has also realized that there are too many unskilled people in special education. When students are required and offered special education, they are not met by skilled and competent educators. It is necessarily unskilled who must fill the gap the right has made in the school where we lack competent teachers. We just need teachers with time and trust, so you don't have to have students who fall outside the classroom, who don't have room within the four walls of the class, and who need teachers specialists. So we're going to have to take care of this. I hope that the Centre Party will be able to take advantage of several of its good actions – and that the representative Stokkebø will be able to look at our actions, not just our cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2004	I would also like to congratulate the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand on a better budget in opposition than in position. I registered that the representative said that for a number of years there have been quite a number of actions, and that was mentioned from the pulpit, among others. professional investment. Then we have the apprentice grant, which we have increased by approx. 21 000 kroner per contract in our period, while it was said to be silent under the previous government. We have strengthened the demand for the use of apprentices to win public tenders. This has been discussed for a long time, but our government is implementing it. Then there were also several student homes mentioned from the pulpit. There we deliver well over twice as much as the previous government. So my question is, since the Center Party says they've been working for a number of years to get to these things: was it SV or the Workers' Party that restricted you in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2011	It is always nice to hear that the Progress Party looks back at the time when it was a red-green government. At that time, the Senter Party was also well pleased. We feel that today's accumulation is the very opposition that is still pushing forward the measures at school. We're also for increased apprentice grants, we're for apprentices in tenders, and we're putting pressure on even more student homes than the government's budget. There may be restrictions and negotiations in a government. The representative and the Progress Party are well aware of this when they are involved in implementing a teaching norm – which is precisely what the Centre Party has been afraid of, namely a centralizing policy, which the Progress Party is supporting in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2016	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2021	SV will make crowded classrooms history. If we are to raise Norwegian school to the level that our students deserve, teachers have to get more time for each student. Several teachers will be better able to watch and follow up on each individual student, and they will have a better opportunity to create a good and inclusive school environment for everyone. With several students in the class, the teacher gets less time per student. Less time per student means that education is less adapted to the individual. School-related students do not have enough challenges, and there will be less time to follow up on those students who are struggling. When primary school pupils wear out, the risk of drop-outs increases during secondary school. Priorities early in life thus have consequences throughout life. In principle, there is a broad consensus that more teachers are needed. But there's a lot of disagreement about how we're going to get there. The government of Solberg has so far granted 1.3 billion. kr to increase the teacher’s density from 1 to 4. step, which must mean that they consider this to be important. The problem, however, is that the bet does not work. The school's teacher's density has fallen, and the funds obviously don't go where they're going. Several teachers will be better able to watch and follow up on each one and have a better opportunity to create a good and inclusive school environment for all. It is gratifying that the Christian People's Party is now moving in the same direction, and the budgetary agreement with the government is an important step in the right direction. But the struggle for increased teacher density is not over with this, because the counterresistances are great. I record that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Knowledge contribute to creating uncertainty about the government's will and ability to implement the scheme. While the Christian People's Party should be commended for having gone ashore to increase the teacher's density, I record that the Christian People's Party has paid a high price. The Christian People's Party accepts today's requirements for competence and the introduction of requirements for 4 in mathematics in order to enter the teacher's education. The Directorate of Education's statistics on primary school showed us last week that 5.6 pst. by Norwegian primary school teachers, they do not meet the competence requirements for addition. So they're unskilled. Norwegian school screams for qualified teachers, and for teachers' recruitment in North Norway, where the teaching shortage is greatest, the number of empty study places is dramatic. Then it makes no sense for the government to close the door to teacher training for motivated high-section students who want to become teachers. This year alone, 415 places of study are available. More than SV should be worried that so many spaces are available, and it's close to believing that this is due to the four-dimensional requirement in mathematics. How many teachers in Norwegian school are missing, and how many students choose other educations because of this requirement, without taking account of the average, it is difficult to figure out. The Minister's figures at least say that this year there are 284 people who want to start the education, and who are so interested that they take the course exam, but they don't come in. Place it there. Is it really just the 4 character in math that determines whether you're fit to be a good teacher? I want to say it as strongly as this is a highly irresponsible policy. SV believes that the four-requirement needs to be removed. Recruitment work must be intensified. In addition, separating 33 000 teachers in a situation where 5.6 pst. of the teachers are unskilled, are mildly meaningless. I'll take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2036	The representative Mona Lill Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2044	Two weeks ago, we were both at the PIRLS conference in Stavanger. There we learned that the students read much better after the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, with higher learning pressures on the basic skills. Then it is interesting to remember that Øystein Djupedal from SV in 2007 admitted that SV had taken this too easily with knowledge, and that they had not given priority to students learning Norwegian, math and English thoroughly. Now it seems like SV is going backwards into the future, because there's a lot of talk about physical activity, more teachers and cultural offerings going into school. Among other things, it's in their alternative budget set by 3 billion. kr for more fruit and green and school food. But there is little talk of the content of today's education, the competence of the teachers and the professional community of each school. It was quite clear when the representative of Fagerås said to Education that early efforts are not to give priority to teacher specialists in the first classes, and that the scheme has been discussed. Can the representative of Fagerås explain what is so debateable with more career paths in school and higher bets on more teacher specialists?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2051	I thank the representative Tybring-Gjedde for giving me the opportunity to talk about the full-day school. When SV says that we want more school food, and that we want more physical activity, we say at the same time that we want to give teachers time and resources for this, we want to extend school day. Today's school wants us to be more practical and more varied. We believe that, for example. will lead to fewer drops out of high school, and we really think that's how the school of the future should be. We are not opposed to competence requirements. We're retrospective, we're opposed to what the government is doing, telling today's teachers that they're no longer good enough. What other profession does it feel to be told that they are no longer sufficient? That's what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2058	There are 10,000 students who leave primary school without being able to read, write and calculate properly, and the school can't even out social differences. I understand that SV's main action against this is to use 3 billion. SEK in, among others school food and fruit and green. I think that's the wrong priority. So the representative has talked a lot about having a trust reform and having confidence in the teachers at school. I have some problems understanding what SV is adding to it. The right is concerned that teachers should have the competence and the space for action to develop good teaching practices — a professional community. We want to slim down the curricula to have more depth learning and reduce the time thieves in school. I notice that the only SV actually suggests when we discuss this is to remove national tests. Otherwise SV is in the queue first to suggest several things to go into school, such as: physical activity. At the latest in this budget setting, the Swedish Government criticises the removal of a reporting requirement to map training for SFO employees. My question is whether the representative can mention three specific reporting requirements that they want to remove in order to give more confidence to teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2067	There is no doubt that we want a trust reform in Norwegian school. It's precisely because we want the teacher to have more time in the classroom. What is part of the reform is less target management and more practical and varied teaching. We want the teacher to spend time in classrooms. I want to point out what the Children's Ombudsman says, they've done a lot of studies on special education, and it turns out that the weakest students get the least experienced teachers. This is a completely wrong development. That's why we want more teachers into classrooms. That's exactly what the principals answer when they get questions about the impact of the 600 new teachers entering primary school, to which Kristin Halvorsen has given money. Well, there was a better special education, and the kids were taught in the classroom... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2072	We are in favour of more practical, varied teaching, which is why we are now focusing on the competence of teachers and on five-year master's education, so that you learn more varied teaching methods. Time in the classroom is for us, that's exactly why we're making more career paths, so that teachers actually don't have to leave the classroom if they want to take further education and do something else in school. You still do not answer my question, which is: Can you mention three specific reports about documentation requirements that SV believes we need to remove in order to have more confidence in the teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2079	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2084	I myself have worked as a teacher for 17 years, and I experience that more and more of the time I had as a teacher had to be used to write reports – I had to sit in a crowded classroom and write reports. That's really not what I initially trained myself to. I trained as a teacher because I wanted to spend time in the classroom teaching the students and providing adapted training. How should it be possible to provide adapted training with the flooded classrooms for which the Right obviously enters? Now they must apparently introduce a teaching standard that they are opposed to and do not have faith in. But that's why it was to have a teacher's norm introduced one of our main issues in this year's election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2089	In the budget setting, SV proposes to transfer time from the school leisure scheme to the school day. Does SV see no challenge in setting up a full-day school, which means that children have at least the same working day as adults, and that the school takes on more of the responsibilities that parents have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2094	SV looks at how families work today. All of them, most of the families have to send their kids to the SFO. Therefore, we will include more of the school day in the SFO, among others. we want lessons to be done when the students come home, so that the students should have it just as their parents do – when they get home, they are free. What's happening today, Countess, is that when the students come home and have dinner, they have to start a new round of homework. It is a clear demand from SV that we want them to let go of it, and that the school day be set up in such a way that it is adapted to modern families.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2101	The President still recalls that it is the President who is to be addressed – that is the way it is. The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2108	We're facing major challenges in the time that's coming, and it's the ones going to school today, that's going to solve a lot of them. That's why we need the best school in the world. We must give the children who are growing up today an opportunity to claim in a new and different labour market. We have to have ambitions for all students, and we have to have a diversity in education. That is why we must also have room for private actors who have new methods of learning and who offer something other than public. Mangfold is also about folk colleges, which are the salvation of many school-ridden youths who don't know what they're going to be, or who would like to bet on creative aspects of themselves. For the Left, it was therefore important to correct the cuts in support of the national colleges. Learning takes place throughout our lives, and we all need to fill up knowledge. The term ‘lifelong learning’ is hollow without an offensive commitment to adult education and study associations. For the left, the teacher is the most important thing for students' learning. It doesn't matter much if you're in a big or small class, in a big or small school. What matters is if you have a capable teacher. That's why we're betting on the teachers. We have strengthened teacher training with a five-year master and have spent several years on qualification and further training. Now let's add 200 million. additional to continuing training and qualification. But we're far from the goal. The number of unqualified teachers in school has increased. With the teacher's norm, the efforts on the teachers are even more important. The left wants more teachers in school, but we're concerned that they have the necessary qualifications. There's a hurry to recruit more teachers for school. We have to lure teachers who are in other professions, back to school, and it must be more attractive to stand longer in the job. We need more places to study, and we need to give newly educated teachers better follow-up, so that they choose to stay in school rather than disappear to other professions. We also need to strengthen the team around the teacher. For this reason, the Left has spent many years on the school health service. The school librarian can also be an important resource for teachers and students. I am therefore pleased that the government – on a proposal from the Left – will look at the Swedish competence grant scheme to stimulate the recruitment of several school librarians. Norwegian school is in the middle of a digital revolution. While large parts of Norwegian society have been digitised to a greater or lesser extent, many schools depend on it. The future school will train students in an increasingly digitised everyday life. The demands for understanding and competence in ICT are increasing, and we need to stick with it. Therefore, the Left will have a significant focus on ICT in school. We have great ambitions and suggested a whole week at primary school in our alternative budget, but we are pleased that we are getting a stronger commitment to programming. We are very pleased that we are getting a boost for digital learning materials, in the form of the establishment of a new national digital educational arena, thanks to funds that left fought through in the work of the budgetary conciliation. It will contribute to more innovation among the developers and a better offer for the students. There is a great need for programmers, especially in the area of data security. The left is therefore very pleased to contribute 500 more places of study in ICT. Furthermore, ICT competence is strengthened by several scholarship holders. We need a commitment to higher education, and for the Left, the strengthening of the basic funding for the UH sector, the University and Higher Education sectors, was by 100 million. KR important. We also strengthen research by 50 million. kr extra to enabling technologies, 50 million. SEK for business research, 50 million. kr for stock research, knowledge raising for the sea, etc. Because we need more knowledge in all areas, we're also strengthening the Free Research Institutes by $25 million. kr. The left now provides us with a flexible education for religious leaders at the University of Oslo. This will allow you to train imams in Norway, imams who know Norwegian values and Norwegian culture, and who will understand which communities they are part of. A broad majority in the Grand Duchy has supported the Left's proposal, and now we have secured the necessary funding to get started. I will end by lifting the importance of a good kindergarten. The left said in the election campaign that everything starts in school, but the years in kindergarten are incredibly important. Therefore, we are happy that we too are getting a solid stake in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2137	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2142	Recently, the Address Paper had a case where the ratio between students and teachers has been quite still in the last few years, the number of students per teacher has fallen slightly. Leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, then said in a comment that these were numbers that she would take into the government negotiations, ‘because providing more wise, good and qualified teachers is the most important thing we can do for our students’. I would like to ask the representative of Almeland from the Left these possibly most relevant questions: if the Left Party had directed the Ministry of Knowledge, what would such a change of state council have meant? How would a left-wing minister of knowledge put his or her mark on education and research policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2149	I'm not going to stand here and shoot what's going to happen in the negotiations, but I can say for the Left it's important to make sure that you also have a sufficient number of good teachers where there's a need for it. One also sees in the Left's proposal that increasing teacher density is a topic we're concerned with. But the most important thing for the Left is that we provide a strengthening of the continuing training effort we have for the teachers, and not least that we ensure that the resources that are in school today have sufficient competence — enough formal competence too — to provide a good learning environment for those students who will meet a challenging labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2154	I have also noticed that the left went to the election on the motto ‘Everything starts at school’, but that Almeland is now moderating the statement a little bit, because I was going to ask if it really does. The representative of Almeland was now a little bit concerned with what is Left's view of kindergarten and early work in the field of education, but I would like to hear a little more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2159	It's true that this was one of our slogans in the campaign, but for the Left, kindergarten has always been a natural part of the educational cycle. A good kindergarten with competent educators is important to ensure a good start to life and not least to ensure that we are able to balance differences, so that everyone can enter school on the same footing as possible, in order to be able to master school everyday life, which too many are very challenging. We are very proud that we have got a further bet on, among other things. free core time. It shall ensure that kindergarten is actually accessible to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2166	The left’s representative, Grunde Almeland, was involved in this with qualified teachers, and, as we heard earlier here today, the government introduced a system of teacher specialists in primary school in 2015. The objective of the teacher-specialist scheme is twofold. It is both to have an attractive career path for teachers and also to discourage skilled teachers from opting out of school — a measure to keep skilled, qualified teachers in school at best for Norwegian students. There are 300 teachers employed as teachers specialists since the introduction of the scheme, a further 300 will be employed next year, and this will also include initial school training. The goal is to have 2,500 teacher specialists by 2025. Rectors state in a new report that the scheme has helped to provide good education and a common culture for learning and works well. I would like to hear if the Left's representative agrees that it is important to continue to invest in teachers' specialists, and if the Left has any thoughts about what can help to make the scheme even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2175	The left is very positive that there are more career paths in school. It is not least important to motivate teachers, as the representative says, to remain in the teaching profession, and to experience it as if you could evolve. It's very positive that there are arrangements where you have the opportunity to specialise while you're still in the classroom at the same time. This arrangement is left-wing positive to. An evaluation of NIFU and NTNU Societal research has been presented that points to several things that we also believe are important to ensure that the scheme is improved, in particular with a view to sharing the knowledge gained by teachers specialists with the entire college. There is also something that needs to be raised further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2184	Luckily, the Christian People's Party has overrun the Right, the Advance Party and the Left and will ensure increased teacher's density in Norwegian school. It's SV. But we're worried about the access to teachers. School places are now empty because the Left with the government has decided that if you have 4 in math, you will not be allowed to become Norwegian teachers, even if you are best in Norwegian throughout Norway. In addition, they must separate 33 000 teachers by giving retroactive effect to competence requirements. The policy facet is what the representative himself pointed out, namely that the proportion of unskilled teachers in school is increasing and now is 5.6 pst. When we have policies that don't work, there's one answer to that, and that's to change the policy and throw out the government – not to go into government with the Progress Party and the Right. The representative, Skei Grande, said in the hearing that teachers do not have the same pride in increasing their skills as other professional groups. The left has obviously met other teachers than I have, but I wonder if the left believes it, for example. is Steffen Handal, head of the Federation of Education, or superteacher Håvard Tjora, who does not respect the competence of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2193	For the Left, this is about the best for the children. We are responsible for giving the children who attend school today the best conditions for meeting a very challenging future labour market. We in the Left have full confidence that the teachers get this. When it comes to the competence of teachers, the Left has fought to ensure that there is just enough funding for further education, so that the good resources already in school today can be provided with further development and replenishment. It is also important to point out that when we have a lack of qualified teachers today, it is precisely the more vulnerable groups, the students who receive special education, who often have access to them without the necessary formal competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2200	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2205	The Christian People's Party will build society on the basis of the values laid down in our Christian and humanist cultural heritage. These values are based on the infinite value of each human being, our collective and personal responsibility for each other, and the desire to take care of the environment and the basis of life for future generations. The family is the primary and most important community of the child and must therefore be strengthened. The school will be with the home to form and train the students and equip them for life. The nursery shall be a safe and good place to be for young children, a place where the child develops through play, interaction and creative development. The most important thing for the quality of nursery services is that there are enough adults in kindergarten. That is why the Christian People’s Party will work to ensure that there are at all times a maximum of three small children per adult and a maximum of six large children per adult in all kindergartens. In combination with this standard, the Christian People's Party will have a 50 pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst pst. In our alternative budget, we proposed such a standard for staffing and a standard for kindergarten teachers introduced from 2018. A teacher must have time to see and support each individual student. Higher teacher density provides more time for each student and better opportunities to adapt training and provide all the assistance and follow-up they need. That's why the Christian People's Party prioritized several teachers for the smallest students in the last period, and therefore a school-level teacher standard was one of the highest priority demands of the Christian People's Party into the budget negotiations. High teacher density must start from 1st class so that an early learner can provide additional help where needed. Today, many people are getting help too late, and clearly the most special education is being put in at the youth level. This is in conflict with what we know about the importance of early action. We have to get away from a wait-and-see attitude and make sure that extra efforts are put in from year one. Through the budgetary agreement with the government parties and the left, we now have a teacher standard that is phased in over two years, with a teacher's density of 16 1-4 students. steps and 21 students aged 5 to 10. steps from 2018 and thereafter 15 and 20 for 1 to 4 respectively. and 5-10. Steps from 2019. A statutory minimum standard for teacher density ensures that all students have access to the school's most important resource, which is the teacher. The Christian People's Party wants children, wherever they live in the country, to be better and more equal access to this resource. The introduction of a teacher’s norm at school level is a historic victory for Norwegian school. This is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, the greatest reform in many years and will ensure that our children are seen and cared for – from the point of view of the Christian People's Party they are eager first-class and through too many demanding high school days. More teachers will help us get a school that sees the whole human being. Several have called for evidence that fewer students per teacher benefit and give effect. Among other things, we have research from the United States, which concludes that precisely class size has a significant impact on the long-term impact of education on students. We see the same thing in Sweden. Here at home we see that low teacher density provides less adapted training and increased need for special education. Looking at the latest PISA figures, we can see that Estonia is soon on the level with Finland in terms of results. One of the most important reasons for this is the fact that Estonia has focused on teacher density. Earlier in the autumn, the OECD also acknowledged that class size has a learning effect. The main point with more teachers is that it should be possible for schools to organise school days for the benefit of children in a flexible way, where the starting point is fewer pupils per teacher, and that different teaching methods can be used to provide more adapted training. The job of using the new room for action provided by the teacher’s norm now needs to be done by the schools and teachers. There is also a need to do a job with good measures to recruit more teachers and to get more teachers to stay longer in the profession. I look forward to working with the government and other parties to ensure that in the future we have a teaching profession that is attractive, both for students who will choose education, and for experienced teachers in terms of standing longer in work. Too many children grunt at the next school day of fear of being bullied. 40000–60 000 children and young people are subject to weekly bullying. For many, bullying is linked to guilt and shame. We know that the longer the bullying takes place, the greater the risk of permanent physical and mental damage. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that we have now introduced bullying agents in each state – that it will be put in place together with the other measures against bullying, which are now in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2238	As Martin Henriksen said, the Workers' Party is very pleased that the Christian People's Party was able to get a pass for more teachers. At the same time, we have recorded that they had to comply with requirements that they had: removing skills requirements that have been given retroactive power and removing the requirement for grade 4 in mathematics in order to get into the teacher's study. Then we have a question: can the representative Gruvan extend the duration of that agreement, how long has he been committed to? Or to put it another way, when are they allowed to change their mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2245	Just to make it quite clear, we haven't changed our view of these demands that have been given retroactive effect. We still believe that these skills requirements, which we also agreed on and which were introduced in 2014, are a proper development to qualify more teachers at the right level for the important job they have in primary school. With regard to the four-claim, we have not changed our view of it either. We don't think it's a well documented requirement to find the best qualified teachers to do a good job in school. That is how this agreement applies to the 2018 financial year. That is the duration of this agreement, as we have entered into it in the context of this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2254	I thought I'd go a little further on that particular question, because we've agreed with the Christian People's Party that the qualifications of teachers are good, but giving them retrospective power is a blow to the face of a lot of teachers who are capable, experienced and who have a lot to do in Norwegian school. The fact that one tells over 30,000 teachers that they're not good enough has provoked them, seafaringly. It's made them uncertain. Then I understand that the Christian People's Party has committed itself to a certain agreement. At the same time, the representative of Gruvan says that the Christian People's Party has not changed its view. Then my question is: what strategy has the Christian People's Party put in order to continue working to prevent this separation of these more than 30,000 teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2261	For us, it is important to communicate with the teachers who are now told that they lack competence to teach at school, that they are initially good enough and have shown it through practice for many years. It's an important message for us to convey. As far as the strategy is concerned, in this round, we chose to give priority to teacher norms. We believe that this is a very important quality requirement that we can now contribute to giving the school by giving each student access to equal teacher resources regardless of where you live in the country. Then we'll come back to the question of how we can raise the other issues. We've put in no strategy other than that we're going to keep up with what we mean. We are bound for the financial year 2018, and then we have to come back to this after 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2270	Not surprisingly, my question also concerns the price the Christian People's Party had to pay for the teacher's norm. The Christian People's Party has submitted a Document 8 proposal that is based on teaching standards, new skills requirements that are not to be given retrospectively and to change the character requirements of mathematics. But then it is that after budgetary negotiations with the government, obviously the Christian People's Party has given up two thirds of its own Document 8 proposal. When the matter was up in a hearing last Friday, pointed out, among other things. The National Association of Schools that it was the Christian People's Party's proposal the Committee should gather on. Obviously, School-Norway thinks this is a good proposal. But the question I and School Norway are now asking us is: What happens to Christian People's Party's own document 8 proposals? Will they vote against it when the matter comes up in Stortinget on 13 February?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2281	It is not only School Norway that believes it is a good proposal, we believe in the Christian People's Party as well. We are going to make it quite clear when we deal with these matters what we think about this, as I have just explained in response to the two previous representatives. We're going to use the same arguments that we've used all along – the four-claim is not well documented, and giving the skills requirements retrospectively means we're going to agree to put a stamp on highly qualified teachers, who have done a good job at school. The only reason why we cannot vote for it is the budget agreement we have concluded. We must be faithful to the agreement we have entered into. And then we have to get back to these issues in a different context when we might not be bound by a budget agreement. We thought teaching standards were absolutely the most important requirement, and therefore we chose to give priority as we did in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2293	The fact that the world is changing is nothing new, but we are living at a time when changes are moving faster than before, and there are major societal challenges that just get clearer every day that goes. These are economic globalisation, the challenge of international competition, automation, digitisation, the integration of new people who come to our country, faster pace of change, signs of increasing exclusion and thus increasing disparities, and not least the fundamental question of how to ensure sustainable well-being. For all these issues, school, education, research and knowledge are crucial. If you are concerned about equalising social differences in Norway, you have to realize that the best way to do something about the social differences is through kindergarten, school and higher education. Poor integration, poor knowledge, or the separation of knowledge between people who have different origins — the difference between a Norwegian boy with roots in Porsgrund and a Norwegian boy with roots in Mogadishu — continues through the kindergarten and continues from the first school day and beyond. Therefore, it has been so important for the government to invest in safe growth and early efforts. But what I'm going to talk about today is not just what we've done. I'll also talk about what I think is important to do in the future. In kindergarten, we have spent a lot of money on more employees and on higher quality and further education, but we have to realize that there are still too many differences in quality between kindergartens. That's the most important thing for the kids who have the least. Through this budget, we have started an escalation of early efforts, and governments are not to be measured by what they do in a single budget, but by what they do in a four-year period. We've started with an extra bet on teachers specialists in the past, master training for teachers will provide opportunities for depression and reinforced early efforts, we've wanted to refurbish the municipalities, and we regulate the relationship and transition between kindergarten and school. We will continue to do that, but it is also important that we address ever-increasing challenges in school. For example, while the literacy skills of Norwegian students are increasing — they are getting better at reading, and differences between majority and minority Nordics are falling, and this is incredibly important — gender differences show signs of increasing. And it's important that we have a stronger focus on digitalization and digital knowledge, not just by putting digital dolls into school everyday, but by equiping both students and schools to know how to use the tools, and also when they shouldn't be used. We in the government are also going to continue the fight against time thieves in school, and we're going to continue to focus both on mental health and to take seriously the problem that we're facing what might be a big social problem: that we live in a society that in many ways is so short-sighted and in many ways also materialistic, so focused on appearance and on the outside, which requires so many children and young people to experience increasing stress. And that's what the school has to do. Every year, in the field of vocational education and training, we have been focusing on a professional profession, through apprenticeship grants, through a professional teacher's strategy. This year we are spending more on a number of smaller programmes, for example. in order to re-fill vocational teachers, but also in higher vocational education through vocational schools. But we have to keep going, because even though more people get apprenticeship space with this government, not enough people get it. In university and higher education policy, we have gone from a red-green rest cutting to a systematic effort both on the content, on the quality and on student housing and student funding. But many students still meet the quality of higher education that is not good enough. I believe that as a country with ambitions to be on the world front, we also need to invest more in excellent professional environments and talents. In the field of research, this government has been responsible for a research promise, with the good help of the Left and Christian People's Party in Stortinget. What we have to do now to move on, to achieve our goal not just in 1 pst. – as this government brought up again from the drawer where the red-greens had put it – but about 3 pst. of our total GDP for research and development, is triggering more private research. And last, but not least, we need a skills reform. We need a reform for lifelong learning. The government has also started, as with strengthening programmes such as Competence plus, and as with this budget, with a focus on digital career guidance. There is not one measure alone that will give us the reform of competences, but a series of measures that we systematically prioritise over several years. Some from the opposition have said that during the government period, it is the opposition that has promoted knowledge policy. I've seen a little bit of that. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2318	Time's up. Then it's time for a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2326	The Workers' Party is pleased that the Christian People's Party has been passed on to more teachers in school and to a teacher's norm. We are concerned that the Council of State is now spending time talking about what the government will achieve with a norm, and how to set it up, so that it gives the best effect for the students, not just talking down the impact the Christian People's Party has got. The Christian People's Party was given the backing of a teaching norm in the budget. The government was given the means by which competence requirements, admission requirements for teacher training should be established. What is the Council of State's view on the duration of this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2333	The starting point is that what we agree on in the budget agreement will be implemented. Then it's the four big parties that manage the budget agreement, but it's like a goal for all parties should be that you have measures that stand over time, and that you don't abruptly and abruptly change politics all the time. Then the four parties go in and take the fine interpretation of the contract text. Moreover, it was important in the last period that it was not just the Right, the Advance Party and the Left who voted for several of the proposals that came. Among other things, we received strong and good support from the Workers' Party for a requirement of 4 for teacher training. I'm glad. We also received support from the Workers' Party to introduce the requirements of competence in school for all teachers who are there, not because someone is going to be separated or lose their job, and the Workers' Party agreed that it was important that we should have a proper level of further education, and that all children should meet a teacher who had been immersed in the subjects in which they taught, when it was Norwegian, English and mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2340	The working party is still concerned that the students will meet qualified teachers in the classroom. That's why we're worried when we see that the use of unskilled people has increased by 40 pst. under this government until the last school year, and then there has been a slight change now. If a teacher’s norm is to work, it depends on recruiting enough teachers, and these are challenges that have been seen over several years, but the measures have not been in line with the challenge that comes. It is very good that the government has presented proposals for change and new grant schemes, but we see that the search for primary school teacher training for 1–7. There is a decline in the number of men in both school and teacher training. 2,200 teachers are retired every year, and these are challenges the government must have seen coming. Now it's a month since we signed the budget deal, and yet we haven't seen a plan or got a signal about a government plan to increase recruitment. The question is when we get a plan from the government that addresses the challenge, because it has to be done quickly to get the teacher training search up and down the drop-off on education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2345	Now, one of the frustrating, but most importantly, the real realities of our system is that as a government council, I don't come to the Storting every day and inform about everything I do. I'm briefing you, for example. through questions in the Question Time and questions in the budget debate. So I can say what we're doing for the recruitment. Last year we started something that was successful. It was – to say it very simply – that instead of putting down national and team recruitment campaigns, we asked the institutions themselves: what do you need? We're going to do that this year too. This meant, among other things: that the University of Tromsø, which also operates very well on its own, had very good recruitment, the Sami college, which has been struggling with recruitment, also had very good recruitment. It's their efforts, above all, that have done this, but we're contributing. So is it also to mention that it is not that we generally have a recruitment challenge in Norwegian school. We're recruiting too few at 1–7. steps, especially in North Norway. It's the biggest challenge, not a general teacher recruitment problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2352	Last week, the government provided some figures for possible improvements in the efficiency of the municipal sector. The Minister of Local Affairs has praised the figures and said that new figures show that if all the municipalities become as effective as the best or most efficient, we can release about 29 billion. kr. The problem is that in the nursery sector, efficiency is measured only by producing the lowest possible cost of accommodation hours. It's a bad recipe for quality. Similarly, it means that municipalities with low staffing in kindergartens and fewer employees with high education and seniority are the most effective. In today's attitude, we focus a lot on the question of larger crews and more pedagogues in kindergarten. How does the Council of State feel that the measurement of efficiency that the government is now priced for stands in today's debate? And can this municipality barometer on efficiency at all say anything about the quality of childcare facilities in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2359	I have not read the municipality barometer on efficiency improvement, but whether it can be streamlined in Norwegian municipalities? Yes, there is clearly a difference between how Norwegian municipal politicians spend taxpayers' money. But it is, as the representative says, not that in any sector of society we are concerned about what we put in, and what we get out in clean hours, e.g. The whole point of the government's knowledge policy, as the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs puts himself 100 pst. After all, the quality is crucial. We cannot measure the quality of e.g. kindergarten or school or adult education only by means of the number of teachers, resources used on construction or the number of hours spent on construction. Of course, it can give an indicator if we like. Sees that two schools get about the same results and students who thrive as well, but that one runs much more reasonably than the other. For kindergartens, the government has now made proposals both on the standard of staffing and on the increased standard of education, so that there is enough the representative and I agree, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2364	Last week, statistics from the Education Directorate showed that 5.6 pst. by Norwegian primary school teachers, they do not meet the competence requirements for addition. At the same time, figures collected by the Education Committee from the Minister of Knowledge show that there are 415 vacancies for teacher training around the country. Nord universitet has 116 vacancies, the University of the West has 68, and the University of South East Norway has 70 vacancies this fall. Doesn't the minister think it's a problem that so many places are empty, and isn't it now that the minister should take a cap to make sure that all our kids got enough time with a qualified teacher in the future too?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2369	I'd like to fill out all the spaces that are empty, but it's not a correct description if you make the picture look like it's all of a sudden vacant space, and it's never been before. Looking at teacher training in the last ten years, there have been almost always between 200–300 and up to 500–600 vacancies. So for several years under the red-green government – without the government's tightened admission requirements for the teacher's study – there were more vacancies than it is this year. It's just a fact-finding, it's not because we don't want to fill those places. The most eye-catching thing is that many people said that we would barely be able to recruit some teachers – a massive drop-out in teacher recruitment. What turns out is that we can recruit teachers. We still need 415 more, which I would like to have in this year, with higher demands. We get better qualified students who want to become teachers, probably more people who want to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2376	Governments mention digitisation as one of the challenges we face. Recently, we have just seen the challenge of getting sufficient digital skills and ICT skills. In some areas it is reported that the necessary competence is almost non-recovery at all, especially here we might look at IT security. For this reason, the Left is pleased that we, together with the government, have been given a scholarship in the field of ICT and not least more new scholarship places. We have also developed a new platform for digital learning materials in primary school. These are all bets that the Left is very concerned about. The question that remains then is how this should be followed up in a good way. So what ambitions does the Council of State have to follow up and take this initiative on?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2381	Firstly, there are at least two issues related to digitisation. One is how it should be used in the classroom – so how should teachers use it, and how should students learn about it? I'm very concerned about what we can call smart digitization: learning to handle digital tools isn't just about more, more, more, it's about the skills of those who use it, it's also about knowing when it's smart to put the digital tool away, and about when you should have learning methods that don't necessarily use digital tools. It's important. With regard to our – as a nation – total access to ICT competence, it is quite clear that we had to do what the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party have now done through more budgets, namely to add more places of study to ICT. Over several years, we have prioritised several scholarships, research places, to ICT. That's also the solution to get to e.g. important national bets such as cryptology.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2388	New figures show that there are significantly fewer students from the poorest countries after a new partnership programme has replaced the quota system for foreign students. Does this development concern the Council of State? What action does he want to take to ensure that students from the poorest countries continue to be prioritised at Norwegian educational institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2394	We are engaged in international cooperation. We are also concerned that we should have good targeted mechanisms for cooperation between Norwegian environments and environments in developing countries or other countries. Some of the problems with the quota system were, among other things: that according to reviews from the Ministry of Knowledge, there were very many who did not return to their country of origin afterwards. It could be suspected of being a brain drain scheme. Something else was that we wanted a system that was more built up under a long-term institutional-to-institutional cooperation. The reason why we think this is important is that we know that it really raises the quality of entering into academic cooperation on the same footing as two institutions, for example. one in Tanzania or one in Madagascar, or where it should now be, together with a Norwegian institution, which together over several years is working together in a partnership. Of course, I am interested in seeing how this has turned out, but I also want to say that I think it is important that we wait first to see a little more clearly what the results of the conversion are.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2408	British statesman Edmund Burke wrote: ‘Clean economy is not economic. Expenditure, large expenditure, may be an essential part of a good economic policy.» In this budget, expenditure is large. But the cost of research and education is an essential part of a good economic policy. There are investments that will ensure value creation and well-being for the population of Norway. The Right-wing Party Government has implemented a shift in the appropriations for research and education in the State budget. The government's 2018 government's draft government budget has increased the appropriations by 9 billion. kr since the government joined. Here I want, among other things. draw up the initial appropriation of 50 million. kr to Life Sciences Building at the University of Oslo. I'll also refer to an increase of 100 million. kr in the basic funding of universities and higher education institutions, 50 recruitment posts and 500 new ICT places of study. The progress party is also very pleased that the government is proposing 20 million. to develop a national arena of excellence in higher education. It is a follow-up to the excellent Higher Education Quality Culture Communication, Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Both teachers and school owners show great interest in and will make use of the scheme. In addition, 2 200 new student homes are provided and the second phase of the gradual introduction of 11 months of study support over four years is implemented. 14,000 high school students report being bullied twice a month. The fight against bullying has always been a priority for the Progress Party. That's why we're now happy that the counties are going to get their own bullying agents, and that it's set at 65 million. kr in the budget to combat bullying as a split layer between state and state. Competence requirements are laid down in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, because the teacher is incredibly important. The new continuing training requirements shall meet the new skills requirements of society. This government has tripled the number of continuing training places compared to the red-green ones. Then I would like to say that the Progress Party is pleased that we have been asked for grade 4 in math on teacher training. Last week we were at the hearing. Representatives from the Parental Committee for Primary Education could tell that a municipality in North Norway had the lowest level of mastery in both English and mathematics among over half of the 5th grade, and that this applied to several places up there — despite the fact that the teacher’s norm has already been met in the municipality. That means that Åshild Bruun-Gundersen could actually imagine a trip up and hear a little about what they think can be done, and what is the cause. The absence limit has been a measure to reduce the absence of high school students. But the apostasy is still high. You see signs of coming drop-outs already in high school. More students now than before have problems like depression, anxiety, eating disorders, low school motivation and bullying. Therefore, trainers should be seen as an exciting professional group, in particular because they can offer educational skills with teacher training at the same time as they have social pedagogy. At high school, counselors are called social teachers. If we're to allow teachers to be teachers in the future, as they want, more social educators will probably have to be on the field. When the municipalities are about to recruit more teachers, I hope that social educators and counselors will be among them. For the Advancement Party, it is important that individuals become acquainted with their own interests and opportunities and set goals. But overall, the Progress Party is well pleased with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2441	The budget debate and budgetary work show that a situation is now developing in relation to some important issues related to education policy, which are of great concern to the Centre Party. One is the fact that overnight there is a teaching standard that is not established, and where we do not know either the design or the consequences of the norm. Everyone wants to increase their teacher's density, but there's a lot of ways to achieve it. And when we see the strong objections that have arisen, both in terms of centralisation, and also in terms of whether this can be a detailed school management, it is a challenge to introduce a teacher standard overnight, which will probably also demand up to 3,000 new year's work by teachers, in a school that already lacks nearly 4,000 qualified teachers. In addition, when we maintain the four-dimensional requirement in mathematics that has been introduced, and are unable to do anything about it, we are unable to replace it with, for example, the four-dimensional requirement in mathematics that has been introduced. A reasonable average, or point, means that you are actually shutting out young people who might think of being teachers and who are very motivated for learning. So you put more emphasis on the nature of their education than you might have when you're a trained teacher. The third, which is also a challenge, is the standard of competence for teachers, who are given retrospective power, and who naturally provoked many of the teachers, who feel that over the years they have done a good and sensible job in Norwegian school, and who now suddenly feel separated. But the big problem, if these three measures are put together, is that the sum of them probably reinforces teaching shortages in Norway. We're increasing the proportion of non-qualified people in Norwegian school, we're doing it deliberately, and we're doing it without being willing to turn around and review it again. So the Central Party has noticed that the Christian People's Party has underlined here today that the agreement they have entered into with regard to competence requirements and the four-party requirement in mathematics applies only to 2018. That means that the Center Party has not given up, that we will come back to this matter in new rounds, and that this will be a matter that will also be important to discuss in a longer perspective. I also want to comment on a few other things that have emerged during the debate. One is a follow-up to what I had a little dialogue with the representative Steffensen about when it was a professional subject. Because it is true that the Right Party and the Advance Party refuse to participate in an investigation into the equipment needs of the professions, and they did so because they thought it had already been investigated. However, the Right and Advance Party also recognise that the current situation is too poor – and it is too poor especially in some of the most resource-intensive subjects in the field of vocational education. However, no measures are proposed to improve that situation. All responsibility is pushed downwards. And that's what the Center Party has a hard time understanding, that one should not now be able to make a promise in terms of equipment in the professional fields, especially for some of the most resource-intensive subjects. We should have contributed to that, it could have been a real boost, and in any case, it's far better than giving 4 to 5 million. to participate in school competitions because it is the year of the professionals next year. And then finally, I want to say a few words about the process around the budget, because I think it's becoming increasingly remarkable to awoke from the sidebar. First, the Right Party government performs some petty cuts in public high schools, adult education and in the student associations, and they follow up these cuts with a rather tough rhetoric, where they ridicule short courses in higher education schools, etc., and talk down those matters quite significantly, but they know that the plan is clear: the plan is that this should allow the Left Party and the Christian People's Party to negotiate again in the budget. And when that's done, everyone is suddenly satisfied. Then even the Right Party and the Advance Party take a little of the credit for the money that has been negotiated back. And then you get the situation that overnight, without any consultations, without any hearings, you introduce a standard of teaching that is in no way established, but that is just to be introduced, by a council of states that we all know here – and the Council of State has also recognized it – is contrary to the whole thing. It is an irresponsible budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2458	The world is changing, and Norway is in transition. We see an increasingly tougher global competition and a raging technological development. We know that many of the jobs of the future do not yet exist. This is why the Right in Government is committed to early efforts and to providing students with good basic skills that are important for the success of continuing training and work. That is why we are focusing on Young Entrepreneurship, so that more people can cultivate creativity and creativity. That is why we are making sure that this government is researched as never before to create new industries and secure jobs. Although many of the jobs of the future do not yet exist, there is someone we know we need more of, and there are professionals. Artificial intelligence will never replace competence and human care can provide health and care workers. Even with more digital construction sites, we need good works that can control construction projects. In the future, we need more skilled professionals who can help build the country. Several people have to choose and complete vocational education, and others have to obtain their professional letters and master’s letters. That's exactly why the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have strengthened the profession and the vocational schools in the period that has been, by over 600 million. NOK, and in the 2018 budget we add more than 70 million fresh. It's a historic bet. But as important as using enough resources is what we're using them on. We must give priority to the right measures. Too often I meet companies that confirm that the students do not have the practical skills needed in their industry. This is precisely why the government is working for more motivating vocational training, which is relevant to the professional life of the students. That's why we now apply professional law to the teaching of the common subjects, allow more students to stay in a company and get professionals from industry and working life more involved in the teaching. With the right in government, we get more skilled workers with the relevant skills. It is not enough for many to start professionally; others must also complete. One of the main reasons why students do not complete is lack of apprenticeships. That's why we have increased the apprenticeship grant by NOK 21 000 per contract, making it easier for companies to take in apprentices. We raise the status and recruit more apprenticeships. We make demands for apprentices in public tenders at the same time as public tenders. We now see that the government's solutions work. More and more students are getting a place to learn. As an important part of the historical effort in the field of vocational education, we also lift higher vocational education. The government has been fully impressed by all its efforts to make the vocational schools more visible, accessible and attractive with increased quality and more students. We increase the number of places of study by 638 and ensure that the vocational school becomes a fully professional alternative to universities and colleges – for master's letters are just as good as master's degree. If we are to get more people to take vocational education, the students must be heard and appreciated. That's why we give the college students voting rights in the boards. We grant the vocational schools a right to be part of a student relationship, so that students can access student housing and other welfare measures. We strengthen the student democracies with the colleges, because we know that the best offer is designed with the students on the team. The development of specialised schools to ensure up-to-date and specialised competence, while being short-lived and practical, makes them suitable for contributing to the transition. Vocational education is an important part of government's commitment to lifelong learning. Vocational schools shall be able to keep themselves up to date and be prepared in a changing labour market. No one should be out of date. With the Right in Government, we carry out the lifting of time for the professions and vocational schools, and we train more professionals who can help build the country and create a sustainable welfare society for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2477	The way to work and social inclusion goes through knowledge and qualification, so the priorities of this budget are so important. Because knowledge has so much to say for your lifestyle, the Workers' Party wants to invest in everyone's skills. We have an offensive commitment in our alternative budget throughout the knowledge chain – from kindergartens to higher education and research. As individuals and as a society, we need to get the knowledge we need for the future. Students, students, teachers, principals, school owners, parents and researchers do a good job every day, but the Workers' Party is not satisfied with the government's efforts to prepare people and communities for the future working life. In this article I will focus on higher education and research. I have two fundamental critics of the government. The first concerns the way the government over several years has controlled the university and higher education sectors. The cheese ratio now amounts to nearly 900 million. kr accumulated. If this continues, we're going to have 1 billion. kr next year. It is difficult to see other effects of the so-called red tape and efficiency reform than that of reducing the quality of studies and research. This is an unobligatory way of governing, which undermines the freedom of action of institutions and creates an unpredictable framework for both universities and colleges. Each year in the budgetary conciliation, government parties have increased the efficiency figure more than in the original draft – this year by 0.2 percentage points. In the Workers' Party, we are also committed to operating the sector effectively, but we believe that the government should take responsibility for prioritising the search for savings potential instead of cutting institutions flats year after year, no matter how effective they are. That goes to a certain point, but now we believe that the institutions have reached a tolerance limit, and the government should reconsider this way of governing the sector. My second fundamental criticism is that the government does not take seriously all the young people who want to take up education, nor does it provide enough study places and enough research in the areas of society have a critical need to develop further in the future. During the summer, a record number of qualified young applicants remained unsolicited. When you have a situation of over 70,000 under 30 years who are outside studies and work, we believe in the Workers' Party that there is a much more offensive investment needed than the government is willing to do. We will create 3,000 new places of study with a focus on, among other things. ICT, technology and real science and the professionals of the welfare state. We say that investment in research and development is essential for us to be able to deal with the major societal challenges we face, but this is alarmingly weakly followed up in the government's government budget. It is being researched as never before, said the representative who stood before me in the pulpit. The truth is, there is a real decline in funding for research. Norway shall be a driver of international knowledge development and have world-leading competence. At the same time, it is important to commit offensively and give priority to research for the renewal of the welfare state and the public sector. We are proposing new programmes for research into ICT and data security, social security and preparedness, and the development of skills. The media now even highlight the critical lack of ICT-related competence, in particular data security and cryptology. Here it hardly seems that the government has taken on board that the future is already here and knocks on. Instead of taking overall action and ensuring national security, responsibility is shifted downwards on individual institutions. Finally, it is strange how little government cares about improving student welfare and quality of education. The Labour Party sees the importance of an education system that sees results related to seeing the whole human being. We have committed funds to continue stepping up support for eleven months of study, 3,000 new student housing, and strengthening prevention work on the mental health of students. We have proposed student representatives throughout the country, and finally I want to add that we have encouraged the Minister of Knowledge to take the overall responsibility for combating sexual harassment in the Academy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2498	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2503	Every day thousands of hugs are spread from parents to little cheeks that delight in a day in kindergarten. The kindergarten is both a safe care arena and an arena for learning through play and stimulating the natural curiosity of children. It's too many the first meeting with language, nature and not least interaction with other children. Things go in the right direction. Never before have so many people had room in kindergarten, and never before have you done so much to make families use of kindergarten. Low-income families now get free or cheap kindergarten, regardless of where they live, and no one pays more than 6 pst. of its income for a nursery place. That's good. But unlike the Workers' Party, the right is not only occupied by the capacity of the kindergarten. We're taking clear steps to improve quality. We have renewed the framework plan for kindergarten. We ensure continuing training for employees, especially in the field of language development, and we are now alerting the introduction of a recruitment standard and a reinforced standard of education. We're doing what we promised in the election campaign. We do this without following in the Labour Party's footsteps and during the night cut 300 million. in appropriations for children in private kindergartens. Kindergarten is not just an important common arena. The kindergarten sector is also a very good example of a workplace with too many unskilled people in need of skills. Both the employees and the parents who deliver their children in kindergarten need lifelong learning in a society with large technological and demographic shifts. Therefore, one of the most important efforts of the Right is to qualify people for tomorrow's jobs. We are in the process of modular vocational and vocational training to make it easier to combine training and work. We've strengthened the Competence Plus system. We have proposed to make it easier to receive training for a professional letter while you are at work. We are now embarking on the creation of a digital career guidance service, and not least: in the last four years – including in this budget – we have implemented high levels of skills both in the health and care sectors and in the education sector. But we have to be honest and clear that we have to do even more in the years to come, because there is a real risk that we will have a more two-part labour market, where more people will fall out if we do not renew and rethink skills policy and higher education policy. It's not useful with a large desktop model to solve these challenges. We need to bet in several areas at the same time if we're to succeed in our most important task, to ensure that no one falls out, either in kindergarten or in the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2518	Introducing it is said that knowledge is crucial to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness, future wealth development and value creation. That's right, of course. But it doesn't just apply to theoretical or literary knowledge. Equally important are other characteristics of a human being. If we're in school one-sided emphasis on academic skills, we're at risk of shutting out a lot of good people who want to work. If we fall into the trap, it leads to loss of competitiveness, loss of future prosperity and loss of value. The Labour Party will have a common school where everyone will experience learning, well-being, cooperation and meistering, a school that will lead all children in the working life of the future, both those who will become academics and those who will become skilled workers. Therefore, the Labour Party will have a more practical schooling from the first year of school. Everyone learns better from seeing the theory and practice in context, but learning to enjoy practical work from the first year of school can also inspire more people to choose a profession later. We need several skilled workers. For this reason, the Labour Party has proposed to invest more than 250 million in its alternative budget. kr more than the government in the professional sector. We'll bet 100 million. kr more on up-to-date and modern equipment in teaching, increase each apprentice’s contribution by DKK 5500, grant scholarships to increase the number of skilled workers to become teachers, and provide support to companies that provide elephant practice. Figures from the Directorate of Education now show that there have been 3 000 fewer pupils in professional occupations under this government, and 2 500 only in construction and engineering and industrial production. It is worrying that the Right-front Party administration is scarcely able to present a new measure for the professional sector and is still able to claim that 2018 should be its professional year. When foreign companies invest in Norway, it is often seen as our greatest strength that we have a broad public knowledge, that people cooperate well – even across professional groups – that we can do the work together, and that we are solution-oriented together. We're able to build flat structures where we don't need to sit and wait for the boss and have the hierarchy. People can decide for themselves. It's important. Research shows that what motivates a person the most is self - serving, mastering, and meaningful work. The ability to deliver is greatest when a person has room for action, a job they can master, and frames that can give them a room so they can do what they think is right. For the Workers' Party, it is therefore important that we have a school that gives the children the knowledge they need, but which also teaches them all the other skills that are important in working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2529	It's about study places. I've been talking to a young girl who was among the record thousands of applicants who were out of school this summer. Oda Man has known that she would be a nurse as long as she can remember. In August, she received a refusal to apply for the second consecutive year’s nurse study, despite good grades and strong motivation. Then she had to stand in line for 14 months – before finally entering the nurse’s study in September. The score requirements increased along the way. This applies to training to train personnel who are in short supply throughout the country, and it occurs at a time when Norway experiences high levels of youth unemployment. With a situation of over 70,000 people under 30 years of age outside studies and work, the Right-wing Party government has scarcely proposed new places of study. Study places provide individual opportunities to emerge from a difficult situation and also provide the labour market with the necessary skills. Back to Oda. She became discouraged, and she got tired, but fortunately she managed to get a temporary job. Nevertheless, she had to spend one year of her life and well saw it at a temporary job, even though the only thing she wanted was to get started with a study that she has always had as her first choice. There were in a way 14 wasted months, which could have been used to qualify for work. The Labour Party is taking the future seriously. We propose to set up 3,000 new study places in 2018, with emphasis on teacher training, health and social sciences, ICT, technology and real science. This would have given more people the opportunity to study, and that the unemployed and others outside the labour market could secure the skills needed to get to work. 1000 of these places we would have earmarked for studies in ICT and technology. Another theme: In order to ensure a solid and adaptable university and higher education sector and to attract skilled students and researchers in the years to come, we believe in the Workers' Party that it is absolutely central to a good infrastructure and a well-organised building mass. It is also a very maintenance phase in research and higher education, and we believe that there is a need for a list of priorities for construction and infrastructure in the sector. Despite record oil spending, the government almost does not find room for new buildings either. We have previously received a majority to ask the government to present a plan for the overall investment needs of the new long-term research and higher education plan. We expect that to happen soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2542	In my county, More and Romesdal, we have strong traditions of innovation and entrepreneurship. Experience-based knowledge is largely behind the formidable value creation that has taken place over decades. Such competence must be safeguarded. However, with global competition, rapid technological development and ever-increasing migration needs, research-based knowledge is becoming even more important. A combination of experience-based and research-based knowledge can contribute to an increased rate of innovation and restore business for a new period of time. The importance of education and skills is increasing. More and more young people and adults are taking higher education and continuing education. In more pressing economic times, it becomes clear that the labour market rewards a high level of education and a high level of competence. OECD figures in 2015 show that employment is clearly better for those with higher education than for those with lower-level education than for those with higher education. Then it is good to see that the absence of high school dropouts, that a quality improvement of the colleges has been started, that funds have been allocated to a historically high number of student homes, and that 11 months of student support has been introduced. The recordmange was offered a study place this year. Figures from DBH show that the number of registered students in tertiary education increased by more than 24 000 between 2013 and 2016. It makes it difficult to understand the Workers' Party's criticism that the government is not paying attention to education. Quality in education must start from the first stage, for the quality of finished engineers, car mechanics and health workers also depends on the basis of which they have received initial training. Nearly 6,000 teachers took advantage of the opportunity to increase their competence through continuing training in 2016. In the year's budget, efforts have been further strengthened. All over the country, new master’s degree programmes are now being launched to facilitate an even stronger professional view of tomorrow’s teachers. This does not mean that all of today’s teachers with an old education do not perform well enough. On the contrary, international surveys from 2015 show that much is being done correctly in Norwegian school. Norwegian students at the 5th stage achieve very good results in mathematics and are among the best in Europe. However, it must not be used as a sleeping cushion or as a support for stagnation in development. Making workers better able to do their job by filling their skills must never be seen as a threat to the existing or a denial of the job done by the current staff. On the other hand, we must realise that we are living in a society of fragile development, where it is absolutely essential that we keep up with – or anyone is at the forefront – in order not to be accompliced. We still don't know what types of jobs will be central in the future, so the most important thing we can learn students and students is to acquire new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2564	The Labour Party has an offensive commitment to school in its budget. Our goal is to give the children the knowledge they need to meet in the future. We will train the labour we need – both masters and masters – and provide all children with the same good basis for participation in society and for good life. I recently attended my old elementary school in Stavanger, Nylund School. The principal and teachers at the school were in agreement now before Christmas: they want more teachers, so that all students meet a teacher with time and resources. That is why in the Workers' Party we have spent money on more teachers and early efforts. In our alternative budget, we're close to 400 million. New school measures, measures that students would have noticed in the classroom if our proposals were given a majority. And this is in addition to the 1,000 new teachers we're going to hire. I also want to boast a little of the government, because finally we see a budget where they mention 'early effort'. After four years without visions and new suggestions, it might have been time. But I'm worried about the follow-up, especially when we see a government council that seems like he's a little out of government. It's now set at 300 million. for early school and kindergarten work. Of these, 200 million is. kr free funds to the municipalities, which are very uncertain in strenuous municipal budgets. The rest of the funding is tied up in their own, smaller projects, so the schools, the teachers, the parents and the students are likely to see little about this investment. Then it's a shame that our proposals, with a much clearer and more comprehensive commitment, don't get a majority. But even though we see a government that does not have a great deal of vision for school policy, it is good that the opposition has shown its way and got an important majority in place, for example. for one hour of physical activity. Our goal is to get more of these decisions over the next few years to ensure a better school. I hope we can form a new majority for an increased effort against bullying, where one sees that the opposition will have more resources for those who are going to fight bullying out in classrooms, and new proposals for a more practical school. Because we see that many students, especially boys, experience that the school is too academic and monotonous, and that one loses motivation and learns less. Again, the opposition has greater ambitions for a more practical school, which more closely links theory and practice. Then I'm glad that, in the context of the budget, we got an overall committee behind the proposal on digital learning materials. The Labour Party has been impatient here. For four years, the government has failed to make use of the possibility of digital learning material to improve learning and follow-up of students. As the Council of State said, we are living in a time of great technological change. But an active policy is required to meet this, and here the Council of State has failed. In our budget, we propose many important measures. We in the Workers' Party want a national investment in ICT at school. It must contain a national support system to stimulate the development of good digital learning materials which are educationally quality assured. We point to the Danish model and are pleased that a joint committee is now asking for an investigation of different models. We hope that it is the Ministry of Knowledge that will do, because we have no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2583	One of the main objectives of government is to create a sustainable welfare society, and one of the most important objectives for achieving this goal is to focus on just knowledge, research and innovation. Realising the knowledge society, making sure that new knowledge is put into practice — to ensure good welfare services, to create tomorrow's jobs, to ensure a green shift and a sustainable economy — is essential for ensuring that future generations also enjoy living in one of the world's best countries. And lucky we are sitting on the Education and Research Committee and have this as our government budget debate. I am very pleased that the voters gave the four non-socialist parties renewed confidence. Right will have higher quality in Norwegian higher education, more environments at the top of the world and a continued offensive commitment to research. Norway is also a long-term country, and it is necessary to ensure that all parts of the country have a wide range of study facilities, which guarantee equal rights to education and are adapted to the needs of working and social life. The 2018 budget will help to realise just this. There is still a real growth in higher education appropriations in this budget, and not least efforts are being made to follow up the quality notification and structural reform, which are part of the government’s long-term commitment to quality at all levels of the knowledge sector. These include: means of quality-enhancing action through the development of a national quality arena and means have been put in place to ensure a proper follow-up to structural reform. It is also important that we ensure a good social and economic environment around the students' lives, and provide students with a real opportunity to be students. In 2014, study support was increased more than ever in 10 years and the year’s budget continues to escalate towards 11 months of study support. It is also provided with funds for the construction of 2000 new student housing in 2018, which is a doubling of the average for which commitments were made in the years 2006 to 2013. The objectives of the long-term plan for higher education and research are met by this budget, and there is very good news for all those who are engaged in good and long-term higher education and research. The measures in the escalation of the long-term plan and its long-term priorities have been met by a total of 2.9 billion. kr in the last four years – a formidable investment, which has given the sector a real boost and also good predictability. Now it's going to be revised, and I'm glad to continue working on it. As both the representative Gudmundsen and the councillor Røe Isaksen mentioned earlier, now goes for the first time over 2 pst. of our total GDP for research and development. This is historic, and the budget continues to invest in this. We need more research, more innovation, that the results of this are put into practice and provide us with a sustainable welfare society, more secure jobs, a green shift and a sustainable economy. This government and cooperation parties will continue to invest in knowledge, research and innovation, and this budget is a powerful contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2602	After listening to the debate for a while now, it is quite easy to note that in education policy it is more important to be in opposition than actually to have the opportunity to govern and intervene — because it is not quite easy to see the school policy of the Workers' Party, and it is really quite obvious that they are in a gap between us and SV. So what a red-green school policy would have looked like is actually a little bit difficult to see or establish. If we look at the lists of the parties, it stands firm, for example. The closure of master training for teachers, the liquidation of several career paths for teachers, the reduction of the transparency of the results, and in the budgets – where the large amounts of money are to be allocated – most of them go beyond what may be the case for a real knowledge effort. It's a little strange to hear the criticism that has come in the course of the debate, especially from the Workers' Party, when you say you're very critical of the cuts in the ABE reform. We see that in the equation it's added 100 million. kr, which means that the real level of the ABE reform for the university and higher education sectors, for the civil parties is around 0,4 pst. Then it is particularly interesting to look at the Labour Party budget, where this reform process is not reversed. There is also a point here that we have now landed the expansion of the research ship «Kronprins Haakon» and I would like to tip that when we get an increase in research effort – it has a small real decline in relation to research investment – the opposition will hopefully rather want these boats to get out of the sea and be in operation than to be on the drop, just to have a few percentage points in the right direction. We're going to the end here now, but one thing I've at least been able to enjoy when I've been following our representatives' posts is to see that a lot goes straight to Norwegian school – first of all thanks to the many competent teachers who stand on every single day to give our kids a good fill and opportunity in life. If we listen to the education sector, they will have more of what we know works, and that the four bourgeois parties have supplied. We hear Vice-Chancellors who are overly enthusiastic about the recruitment of the new master-educated teachers – who are already out in Norwegian school, after UiT had the pilot project I mentioned earlier today. We hear teachers' organisations such as the Association of Education and the Norwegian Lektor team that want competence requirements in the field of education. We hear school owners reporting dramatic declines in absenteeism and figures showing that more people complete and survive. We hear the business that is cheering for the post-secondary education initiative, and that involves more apprentices, and we hear college students cheering for the effort they have become part of. We hear parents who want more qualified teachers than state food packages in A4 format. We need more non-socialist school policy and not a red-green direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2619	Malnutrition, overweight and lifestyle diseases are increasing among Norwegian children and young people. In prevention, it is well documented that the broad, universal measures have the best health benefits and the school has an untapped potential. Through school, you reach all children, regardless of the income of your parents and regardless of the background of your parents. For too long we've talked about the importance of public health, and that good health brings happier children and children who learn better. The decision that was made not many days ago by a majority in the Storting, where one wants more physical activity, was a big step in the right direction. Several schools in Norway have already shown that this is possible, for example: in the Drammen municipality and Trudvan school in Sogndal. The working party has also spent money in its alternative state budget, where one hour of physical activity is to be introduced every day from the first stage to the 10th stage. If everyone is to have equal opportunities, we need to invest more in what ensures our children good and safe growth conditions. Where you live, and the background and income of your parents cannot and should not be decisive for your health and school results. We just can't go on like that. The Labour Party wants to reintroduce the free school fruit scheme, and we have also set aside money for a trial project with a free school meal in 50 municipalities, as a spice team between the public and the parents. It's just a shame we don't have a majority. Now we see examples of municipalities that take responsibility themselves. Last week we were able to read about Porsground, which spends money on a local school fruit scheme. It's a shame something like that creates differences. It is clear that the Progress Party and the Right believe that public health and prevention are an individual problem. We check time and time again and in case after case that you vote it down. Last time we saw it in the matter of physical activity. Everyone from the Right was for more physical activity. Everyone from the Right voted against. Learning is about much more than numbers and letters. It's about the whole human being. It's about the whole baby. This is why the Workers' Party strengthens the school and the entire team around the child – in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2634	Many incubators face major challenges related to their building mass. The lack of support for rent and capital expenditure has led to an economic pressure situation for these schools. The Christian People's Party is pleased to have entered into the budgetary agreement with the government parties and the Left a doubling of the capital grant. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee endorses the proposal that the government should make a more thorough analysis of how construction costs can be included in the grant basis for the schools, based on costs similar to those of public schools and schools. Competence is more than a study score. Competence and learning are about developing the whole human being, and here the primary schools have a very important role. In our opinion, the government's proposal to cut public schools showed a lack of understanding of the role and the need for higher education institutions. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that in the budgetary agreement with the government parties and the Left we were able to reverse the cuts. The Christian People's Party wants a wide range of high school courses and will continue to work to ensure that students at the national colleges can receive 11 months of student support, like other students. Freedom is one of the pillars of civil society and an important prerequisite for an active cultural and organisational life throughout the country. It was therefore important and necessary to reverse the proposed cut-offs of the study federations so that these activities could continue and continue to provide important services to people in different stages of life. The housing allowance is important for students on the outskirts. The government's proposal to change the distance criteria for this grant would affect students living in the districts and could actually have consequences for their schooling. It was therefore important and necessary that in the budgetary negotiations between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party agreed that this cut was reversed, so that it would still be 40 km away from residence to school, to trigger housing. The need for health professionals will increase in the future. It is therefore necessary to take action in the future to ensure that we have enough competent personnel to meet this need. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we proposed strengthening health education by setting up 500 new nursing places, 100 places for health sisters and 50 new medical places. This is a need we have to come back to in later budgets. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the budgetary agreement provided for the possibility of funding 30 psychology study places at the Ansgarskolan in Kristiansand, 15 decentralized nursing places at the VID University, as well as three scholarship positions for each of the colleges. Technical Centres, Flekkefjord, provide space and opportunities to strengthen the creativity of young people, an important and good cooperation between school and business. We're satisfied that we got 0.8 million in place. kr in State aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2653	We need to get more people to work, get more people to do more work and lay the foundation for business growth and better welfare in the future. Competence reform is an answer in all three areas, and, of course, tripartite cooperation is needed to achieve a successful reform. Workers shall not fear developments, but know that they will have access to a fill of skills. Consequently, the Labour Party will introduce a competence reform and proposes to invest 100 million. kr more than the government of adult education in its alternative budget. The organization on its page is committed to creating a web page. The Labour Party proposed to introduce in its alternative budget a pilot project for the competence reform in 2018, where we start in the construction industry and in the health and care sector. We strengthen student associations after the government cut off and propose to develop custom student offerings at universities and higher education institutions. So I'll say a little bit about bullying. Bullying is one of our biggest societal problems. It starts in kindergarten and continues at school and continues into the workplace. In the student survey, over 20,000 children and young people report experiencing bullying at school, and it is estimated that 100,000 workers experience bullying at work. Bullying is a social problem that affects people's lives and health. It costs society enormous amounts, and for each individual it gives effects in terms of, for example, poor self-esteem, poor academic results, outreach and mental suffering. Bullying must be combated at all levels, the sooner, the better, and efforts must begin in kindergarten. This is one of the reasons why high levels of competence around the younger ones are so important: more kindergarten teachers and more teachers with time to build good environments and relationships in kindergarten and school. The kids who get bullied today can't afford to wait any longer. It is incomprehensible that the government does not introduce new measures against bullying in the 2018 budget. The Labour Party believes there is a need for new measures to fight bullying in the school, and will spend 84 million in 2018. kr more than the government of it. We want preparedness teams against bullying in all municipalities, a competence enhancement program for everyone joining the school and adding more environmental workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2666	The PIRLS survey showed that Norwegian students read much better than before. The introduction of the Knowledge promise has created a higher level of learning pressure in school, and it helps to balance social differences. After the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party acknowledged that they had neglected the importance of knowledge. As Anniken Huitfeldt said to the Evening Post in 2006: ‘When one in five readers is too poor, it is not possible to apologize for being so socially integrated and involved in the gym.’ There were good concessions then, and it has led to a political consensus on creating a culture for learning at school. But this debate shows that the left-hand side is engaged in a U-turn. No one talks about the learning pressure in classrooms being too weak. No one confronts the Minister of Knowledge with what he wants to do with the great quality differences between the A and B classes at the same school or between Finnmark and Oslo. Then I'm not talking about differences in the number of teachers, in the maintenance of construction or in the number of hours of physical activity, but differences in learning outcomes and in the proportion of high school graduates. The centre party and SV are against school leaders and school owners getting to know what the students are learning at school. They will remove screening samples and keep the results secret. At the same time, they do not have a problem in providing detailed guidance on education in areas that are not crucial for students’ learning. Instead of investing in continuing education and good professional communities in each school, they sit at Stortinget and decide how many minutes math or Norwegian teachers will spend on physical activity in their classroom. At the same time as everyone in School-Norway is asking for the curriculum to be streamlined and for them to have more time to learn depth, the left-hand side is the first one in line for new themes to enter the school. While we know that the teacher's competence is essential for students to learn, the opposition fights against important steps in the government's teaching promise. The centre party and SV will eliminate the qualifications of teachers, while the Workers' Party still does not know what it means. The SV and the Center Party will remove the character requirements for starting the teacher's study, and the Center Party will reject the government's teacher's specialist scheme. It is an honest matter that SV and the Center Party have different priorities than the Right. They are more concerned with the framework around the school than with the professional content of the school. But what's surprising is that Norway's largest opposition party is still unable to give an answer to what they want with the school, other than to grant a little more to many budget lines. Right is and will always be the guarantor of getting more knowledge in school, because there is knowledge that balances social differences and creates opportunities for everyone. And after four years with the Right in government, it goes straight to Norwegian school. The students learn more, which is the most important thing about the school, and then it's not time for a U-turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2684	It has been interesting to follow the debate. I registered that the representative Tvedt Solberg was very concerned that the 200 million. kr that go over the municipal sector as free resources, will not go to what they are going to do, for early action. I share the concern when there are almost 300 rapporteurs from the Labour Party and the Central Party. I urge the representative, Tvedt Solberg, to vote at the Advancement Party in 2019, and we will have it sorted out. The representative, Martin Henriksen, says that the government is being pressured to change its school policy. But let's see who follows who. We've put a lot of effort into vocational education and vocational education, as we promised. We have increased student support, and it's interesting to see that we're on our way to raising it to eleven months. It was something for which all the red-green parties were, both in 2005 and 2009. Then they sit in the negotiating room and negotiate a new government platform, but there are some of them who are able to negotiate it out, even though everyone agrees. But we're implementing it, and we see that the Workers' Party is following in its alternative budgets now. In the case of student housing, we have delivered between 2 200 and 2 500 each year during the period that has taken place, while the working party on average delivered approx. 1 000 in the period over which they crashed — with the exception of two years, 2009 and 2013. It was certainly a coincidence that it was an election year, but then they chose to grant money for a little more. Otherwise, in the case of continuing training, Trond Giske travelled to Trondheim with Jens Stoltenberg and promised that they would continue to train approx. 3 000 a year. We have delivered 5,500, the Labour Party is following in its alternative budgets. We can immediately take apprentice grants, or we can take research and 1 pst. GDP. The non-socialist majority is showing the way, and the opposition is following. Otherwise, I registered that the representative Arnstad believes that it is a political theatre and a game for the gallery when we go out and think it is wrong that the state should finance line dance and bridge training for 50-year-olds. Well, let there be no doubt: I mean with all my heart that it is not a public task to finance bridge training for 50-year-olds. I find that the bulk of the population is unfortunately of a different opinion, and I should have liked to have seen another outcome of it in the budget agreement. But I am pleased with the verbal proposal where the government is asked to engage in dialogue with the national colleges in order to find a model to phase out grants for short courses, in return for an increase in basic appropriations. But let there be no doubt: I don't think it's a government task to finance this, unlike the representative Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2697	The representative Nina Sandberg has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2702	I brought up this with the ABE reform, and it has apparently fallen right a little heavy for the chest. I did that because the Workers' Party is critical of using the university and higher education sectors as a balancing item to make the budgets go up. This has gradually become less of a reform and more of a way of balancing, where it is what the government's supporting parties consider to be a good purpose, which is financed by flat cuts in the operating budget. These cuts are set at random. They are not very accurate, and it is not the bureaucracy that is being hit, but the users, in this case students and professional employees. In the view of the Workers' Party, these cuts should be seen in a longer-term context and in a wider context. We think it is easy for the government to rid the principle of cutting down on operations and jobs without considering the consequences. We also believe that the Storting should decide whether the sector in the long term is served by this way of ruling.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2710	Education is the most important mechanism for smoothing social differences in Norway. When the Health Director held his Annual Report for 2017, the title was ‘Preliminary action against young aliens’. Too many children and young people fall outside, too many miss adequate education and do not get into work and participate in society. This poses health challenges for the rest of your life. It should be borne in mind that while Norwegian youth as a group have never been better off, one in five young people does not complete further education and one in ten falls outside both school and working life. At the same time, more and more young people report mental symptoms and low self-esteem. The fastest growing group of young people with disabilities is young people under 30 years of age with mental disorders, and among young people under 39 years of age with almost 60 pst. mental and behavioural disorders. If we're going to plan for good health in the population, we're going to have to start in childhood, kindergarten and school. Social distress and poverty are inherited, but this pattern can be broken if the big community facilitates it. The solution is not in repair in the health sector but in prevention. Then we can use the school. The centre part will give priority to the prevention work, which can naturally be done in the school, as part of the whole-created learning environment. It is alarming if the Norwegian school has developed a test regime and a performance pressure, which in itself suggests that young people feel more pressure and develop mental disorders and problems. It is a declaration of failure for a school that must have the aim of forming. The centre party believes that the school must have an obligation to contribute to good public health. All the parties are for the elephants to have more physical activity, but a minority suggest that this should not apply to all the elephants. The centre party finally got multiples to set a clear and mandatory measure of one hour of physical activity a day in the school. Physical activity is the best medicine in the world. The human body is created for movement. Physical activity does good for body and soul, and regular physical activity prevents disease and is essential in all preventive work. Physical activity in childhood provides the basis for maestering, well-being and well-being later in life. Our 15-year-olds are as stationary as the 65- and 85-year-olds, and this shouldn't be a debate on why we're going to put one hour's physical activity in the school, but why all the days we should stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2721	Too many students are being bullied. There are students who lie down with a lump in their throats and wake up with pain in their stomachs, students who grin at school because they know they're going to meet the bullies another day. It's awfully bad for those involved, and it's a serious social problem. The government is therefore stepping up the fight against bullying. We have more than doubled the resource effort and introduced an increased obligation of activity. We have developed a better safety net, which captures the issues where the schools fail, and now we are introducing together with the Christian People's Party and the Left bully in all states. No one should be able to turn away, saying that they did not know or do not intervene. With the Right in Government, the fight against bullying shall continue with enhanced impact. Neither for those who get away from the bullying, does life always go on the rails. People who seem to be doing well, too, may find it difficult, and so with the Right we're going to build a stronger layer around the student. That is why we have decreed that all municipalities should have health sisters and psychologists in the future, and we are presenting a stepping-up plan for children and young people's mental health. That's why we've given over 1 billion. kr to school health services and health centres. This has led to over 400 more health sisters, and the waiting time for help has fallen. In the 2018 budget, we are strengthening the work by 300 million. kr. We have also launched a research project, a team around the student, to find out how we can best use more professionals in school who work together to give students the best follow-up possible. Together with the national initiative for the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, many municipalities work well, and I have to praise Gétdal Secondary School, as the representative Roy Steffensen and I have been visited, who have invested in several environmental therapists and got an even better learning environment. The layer around the student works. Right-hand jobs for a school where no one has to get up in the morning and grumble because you're being bullied, and where health nurses always have to have an open door when you need it. That is why we build a strong team around the student with clear frameworks, attendance requirements, good and up-to-date teachers and more health sisters and professionals to follow up on the individual. It contributes to better well-being and mental health, less absence and absence and more learning for Norwegian students.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2732	It's been a long time since the government parties had a new idea in school policy. That's why they might have to go so far back to find something to criticize, either that Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde's representative finds cases from 2007-2008, or that one tries to wrap up old disagreements in rhetoric like'stupid operation', which is a very strange rhetoric – or the representative Steffensen, who has to go quite far back too. I would like to say, as the Labour Party's leader in the Financial Committee, that there is an exciting debate about the future. I encourage the Right Party and the Advance Party to sign up for it. One of the claims made by the Right is that, unlike the Workers' Party, which is only occupied by the kindergarten capacity, the Right is of quality. Well, then you have to do what gives quality. Having enough qualified adults is the main measure of quality in kindergarten. Many enough adults mean that you get comfort, you get a catch to sit on when needed and good educational activities adapted to the children. It is impossible for a small number of adults and for large groups of children. In the autumn a new quality study was carried out in the nursery, with a view for children. The researchers behind that survey tell us that what gives us quality is more kindergarten teachers, high adulthood and that the children get to belong to small and stable groups. All of this has been proposed by the Workers' Party to improve quality. We have proposed more kindergarten teachers, a pedagogical norm and want the government to get on the road faster. We have proposed small, stable groups. On the other hand, the government has rejected the proposal on the right to group membership. They have agreed to put in place a standard of personnel and have proposed a lower standard of education than the Stortinget asked. It is not ambitious to increase the proportion of kindergarten teachers by a few, sharp percentages. The working party believes that there should be half kindergarten teachers in the kindergarten, not a small ambitious educational norm, to which the government has submitted, which parents must also pay for themselves through increased kindergarten prices. So finally, I hear that the Right also criticizes the Red-Greens for not knowing what the policy of a Red-Green government would be. Well, I can reveal that the red-green parties are not in government. The Right Party and the Advance Party are in government. But now it might have to be a new party in, after government negotiations with the Left. Then it's interesting to find out what the policy of that government is. The Progress Party has been given the chair of the Education Committee and wants more space in the education debate. What are they going to use that space for? Is it through its policy of grades from the fifth grade, i.e. from the age of nine, the division of classes by level, the full release of the right to set up new private schools, free choice of schools in primary school, higher education school money and the privatisation of relationships? I would like to challenge the head of the Education Committee from the Progress Party to clarify: Which of these issues is what he is going to fight through in government negotiations with the Left and Right? [[President clubs]] I want to challenge the Left to clarify what they can accept from this. And to the Minister of Knowledge – who has spent the time writing Christmas cards, nice to those who receive it – which of these will he warn against? [[The President cut off]] Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2743	Time's up! The President asks the Stortinget to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2748	I'll do the best I can. It is easy to get involved in this debate. As a humble, new representative, I can start by correcting myself: the centre party's cut to teacher-specialist education is related to teacher's density and special education, but perhaps not in the way I put it in place. It's more about resource use, because we don't want to spend $60 million. kr to continue this pilot project, because the evaluation showed that teachers set time for teaching and follow-up of pupils before seniority and pay. Rather, we want to spend money on what is well anchored in teacher prophecy, namely time and trust. The Council of State would not be aware that the opposition is taking the lead in education policy, but it is not necessary to read the budget agreement or the setting carefully before it is confirmed. Where the government first cut the appropriations for the higher education institutions, colleges and other volunteering, they have now turned around. Where the government first cut in the outreach grant, which shook students and student organisations all over the country, they have now turned around. At the same time, the opposition has been able to bring together a majority for several comments in the vote. I also experienced that even government councils were haphazard with coding, ICT, IT and digitisation in school and called it "dupediter". But that is also a commitment to programming. Furthermore, we can read that UNICEF recently mapped out the state of the world's children. It was found that one third of Internet users in today’s society are just children. They view digital connectivity as an overwhelmingly positive part of life. They also conclude that children should learn digital skills in school to keep them informed, committed and secure online. It assures me that we must continue to invest in this. On the other hand, the progressing party set up its basic skills against digital skills in the opening stage. Let me just tell you that there are two sides to the same thing. It was a representative from the Right who drew out how we presented ourselves to tests and tests and to what extent school leaders should have insight into the students' skills and mastery. We're not necessarily against it, just because we're against it being detailed, published and a political point how the individual school and students do it. We'd rather bet that it's the individual school, the individual class and the individual teacher who can make an assessment for learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2763	We don't know what the future will bring, what the labour market will look like, but we know that knowledge will be central. This is why the effort to enable individuals to acquire knowledge is so important to the Left. It is simply about making education more accessible. The left has for a long time been concerned with ensuring maximum access to higher education. I can assure you that the Left will be concerned about it in the future as well. This is reflected in several concrete measures, both in the alternative draft budget of the Left and in the budgetary agreement with the Government and the Christian People's Party. The left has been at the forefront of several years of placements, but study places alone will not make access to higher education real for everyone. Eleven months of study support was therefore a very important breakthrough for the Left. That in 2018 we continue this effort by stepping up the scheme with an additional week, is not only joyous, but also necessary. Students should be sure that the Left sees the challenge of conducting a study at a normal time if, for economic reasons, you are forced to take on a job with such a high workload that you do not have enough time to study. Therefore, the Left is committed to ensuring a study funding scheme that is liberal enough to allow everyone to complete their studies. At the same time, bets can be made on e.g. Student housing helps improve the student economy, but the challenge today is precisely the existing cost framework. Therefore, we are pleased that, in the revised national budget, we will come back to looking at the cost frameworks and grant schemes. Making higher education available to everyone is also about improving the quality of higher education itself. In the left-hand option, we're pointing at this through that 50 million. NOK 250 million. kr that we propose to provide the UH sector with basic funding is earmarked for digitisation. This will benefit students' pedagogical offerings by achieving pedagogical innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2774	Some points: Firstly – to the representative Martin Henriksen – ‘no more money for everything’ is a new idea. Furthermore, it is to criticise a sitting government for their lack of new ideas and better solutions, something that came up on the Right in 2013, so that's not a new idea either. The representative Sandberg has addressed the ABE reform a number of times. If you look at the totality of the budgets, universities and colleges have had a good real growth every year under this government, including in the government's own budgets, and that is also the case in the year's budget. The representative Sande is calling for new measures to be taken against bullying. I think it is symptomatic of a way of thinking about policies that are also linked to ‘new money’. You think that if it's not a new measure in every single year's budget, where it comes with completely new money, and where you're going to start something new, you don't do anything with a problem. But in the autumn, with quite a lot of support at this moment, we introduced a whole new mob legislation in this country. It's followed up, it's action, it's given money, we follow up the work that hawks. Systematic effort over time is the most important factor, not having new measures in each budget alone. The real class distinction in Norwegian school does not go between different school buildings. It doesn't work on accessing computers. It's not about class size. It doesn't matter what kind of fruit or food package the students have, although we also see that social differences play in. The most important and greatest class distinction is what the students actually learn. And if I had one wish for this period, it's that, in addition to all the other matters that are important for the Stortinget to discuss, you hold me responsible for it too – for differences in learning outcomes, that is, what students can do after leaving school in Finnmark, in Oslo, in the Nord-Trøndelag or in Sogn and Fjordane, and for why there are systematic differences based on social backgrounds as to who falls out of school, and who doesn't. If I had been on the left-hand side, I would call it class distinction, but I'm on the right-hand side, so I call it "systematic social differences." I have not listened to ICT, even though I called it ‘dupediter’, but I have said that equipment alone is not enough for an ICT bet. Finally, the size and the opposition must also be consistent. When on every occasion you're demanding that we don't have to control the details, say we're going to debureaucratise, say that now we're going to clear up space, so that teachers get more time to focus on the most important thing, you can't on any other occasion demand new things into school. The calculation piece is not suspended. In the end, I would like to thank you for the short cooperation we have had this autumn, since I have been on leave. I'm sure I'll say that on behalf of former government councillor Henrik Asheim. I wish the whole committee a Merry Christmas and I can assure you that the representative Martin Henriksen will also receive a Christmas card.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2793	I must also comment on Nina Sandberg, that she once again took the floor on the issue of the ABE reform in a brief comment. I can assure Sandberg that the Labour Party's criticism may not fall so heavily to the right of the chest, because we are basically used to not always agreeing with school and education policy or that criticism comes from that point of view. We live well with that, as long as we know that it is actually the Right who has the best school and education policy, and we have shown that over the four years we have been in government and during this period. The ABE reform is not intended to cover a variety of additions to a budget agreement – it is not what it does either – but is intended to release funds precisely in order to implement important and absolutely necessary investments in the sector. Both the Workers' Party and SV have criticised this cut, but SV has at least been fair enough to remove this money from their budget. This has not been done by the Workers' Party. They say you want to look at the device, but if this is really as bad as all the high-sounding criticism was supposed to be, you should actually have removed it from your own budget instead of leaving the money behind, and used it for actions that you want, not within the sector. Nina Sandberg also referred to a student who wanted to study for a nurse, but who did not come in because she did not meet the recording requirement. Then again, what I think is some of the difference between the Labour Party and the Right and Education Policy: the desire for high quality, both in studies and in the competence after completion of studies. The University of Oslo and Akershus have had this as a recording requirement for a while already after a request from the College itself, from the Nursing Association and from the nursing students. They were all very concerned that this competence in mathematics was absolutely necessary, not least because after school, nurses actually have to handle medicine and calculate it. Then I think it's important that we politicians listen to it, and make sure that they too, in line with the teachers, have the competence to do the job they're set to do. So the Labour Party also said from this pulpit a little earlier this afternoon that they thought it was a pity that they did not have a majority. I can understand that, something else would have been strange, but I have to admit that I'm quite happy that they don't have it. I am glad that we do not have a school policy that prioritises school fruit rather than quality in school. We as parents can send with an apple, but we cannot replace a capable teacher. The working party also clarified that they have made contributions so that it would be possible to impose a requirement for one hour of physical activity. The problem is that they have gone into a decision that just does not add this money. Yes, the Right voted against, but no, we're not against physical activity in school. We are just opposed to putting a rigid system down the schools – a rigid system that deprives teachers of the freedom of method, a rigid system that, to name a few, is entirely in agreement with the Right in not a good solution. Yes, for physical activity, no to a rigid scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2804	At the bottom of the debate, I was going to take the opportunity to comment on some of what has emerged during the debate. Firstly, I very much agree with what Mr. Tybring-Gjedde said when it came to kindergartens and the need for one who is also concerned with quality raising measures, educational standards and other measures. But in a government and in a government party it must be linked, and that is because it is problematic. It can't be that one department doesn't know what the other department is doing. One may not send double messages to those who are actually required to carry out the nursery activities in that country. For this is how I also pointed out in my reply to the Council of State that while we are talking about quality in this debate, the Minister of Municipalities is commending those who are most effective, that is. those with the lowest number of staff, with fewer employees and with the lowest number of employees with high levels of education and long-term employment. He lets them out best – they're the most effective – while we're talking about a completely different kind of quality. That kind of double message the government can't get away with. I share the concern expressed by the representative Sandberg about the number of higher education places. Our need for competence suggests that you should not have to wait months and years to get a place to study, as more and more people do, and as the representative also pointed out. The funny thing about this government is that they increasingly require quality before they start school, instead of demanding quality when you're done with your education. That's when you have to prove the decisive quality, whether it's teacher or nurse training. Then I have to go back to the teacher's norm. The council says here that he thinks the opposition should be concerned that the class distinction goes on what the students are learning, that's what we're going to be concerned about. Why, then, should the government now, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, contribute to something that perhaps centralizes teacher power away from those areas that have the greatest challenges of just learning outcomes? And why should a detailed management – which in any case the Association sees as a strong detailed management – of the school’s disposal of the facility by nightly introducing a standard of teachers that has absolutely not been investigated? With regard to what the representative Gudmundsen says, I should not say so much about it, just note that the representative Steffensen was against a short course and bridge today, but that he is going to vote for it anyway. He does because no one in this room is as advanced in his double communication as the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2817	Previous speakers began by saying that because we represent the government parties, we need to have a coherent policy. I have to say that I think the debate this past week has shown that it is perhaps only the government parties that need to have a coherent policy, because I think it has really been a strange way to run politics – or I should say criticism – on: You criticise the government for better success and have greater stakes than the previous government, which is the natural thing to compare with. Government parties increase the apprentice's allowance by NOK 21 000, the working party adjusted for NOK 0 – but criticises it for not being enough. Government lots are charged more than 1 billion. kr in the professions – The Labour Party complains that a professional billion has not been introduced. Government parties double the student housing structure – The Workers' Party believes that this is not good enough. The Labour Party opens zero labour crime centres, the government parties seven pieces – the Labour Party still complains. Government parties put more emphasis on patient treatment in four years than the red-greens did in eight — still only critics. We have doubled the grant to nursing homes – the Labour Party is dissatisfied with the bet. You increase your investment in the infrastructure by a huge 50 pst. – not enough money, says the left-hand side. That's how I could still have in the area by area. I really need to ask whether these representatives and the parties believe in this themselves. If they do, at least they're totally out of credibility. During this period of government, Norway was even named the happiest country in the world and the northernmost people in the world. I think it is strange that the left-hand side has not come to say that this was too little too late, that it did not happen quickly enough, and that it should have happened before. And you could actually ask yourself, why is it going to be like that? Why has the debate on the budget shown that it is only a criticism? I think that's because the project on the left is not about finding an alternative policy to this government, it's mostly about making criticism, no matter how good the results are. I think the left-hand side would have been much better if they could sometimes say that here the government has actually done a good job, that it has doubled the number of student homes compared to what we managed to do, is very good. Then I think there had actually been someone who had heard after when the criticism came, but it is, as it appears now, totally bare for credibility when you criticize the government parties for being much, much better than a self-capture to be. There'll be a little bit of a think-of-a-number policy when you say what's their alternative. I hope that in the next debate there will be more solutions – and not just criticism – from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2828	The Workers' Party, together with a unanimous biging at the latest this spring, asked the government to find a solution for the German School, as I did. But the government is passive. Norway has a foreign policy strategy to strengthen links with France and Germany. Then it is strange that the government does not seek solutions across departments. The French School and the German School provide a real alternative offer to public schools, thus contributing to a desired diversity in the capital of the country. These are schools that exist all over the world. If Norway and Oslo are to be attractive to international workers, we must offer school services such as this in Norway. In the revised 2017 National Budget, we were able to find a solution for the French School in this Chamber. Now there's still a solution for the German School. The school management at the German School believes that the school is dependent on enhanced funding to avoid intake peaks from the autumn of 2018. A short-term and a long-term solution is needed. We hope the government will now engage in dialogue with the school on the matter, and come back with a solution in the revised national budget for 2018. Then we want to change the legislation, so that these schools get more predictable framework conditions. We expect the government to follow this up, as the Storting has decided. The Workers' Party therefore says 'Herzlich welcome!' rather than 'Auf Weerseen!' to students who want to go through school everyday at the German School Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2840	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde said in his post that no one is talking about learning outcomes. Then the representative Tybring-Gjedde has not heard after, or at least did not understand what SV is talking about. Does the representative Tybring-Gjedde think that SV is talking about expanding school day for nothing? We're talking about it because we have to get what's missing today. We need to focus more on creativity, knowledge and depth learning, more time for a practical and varied school day, more physical activity and healthy school food. Nutrition is very closely related to learning, as we know. Lessons are to be taken in school everyday, so that when the children get home, they get help at school and are free of homework. We believe that a more practical and varied school day will provide better learning outcomes, and building a bird box, dramatizing Ibsen or dissecting a fish will probably make sure that all the kids get equal opportunities, whether they learn best through theory or practice. But if you want to do this in Norwegian school, the teacher's norm is important. If not these things are talking about increasing learning outcomes, I think the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde must have a strange learning vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2853	I agree that this has been an interesting debate, but I am a little surprised at how visionless it has been from the government. It may not be so strange, as an answer to Mr Simonsen's representative, that a visionless budget also gives a visionless debate. What I think is strange is that those who have now gained confidence from the people to new years in government have no new ambitions. It seems like you're actually a little done, and satisfied with your project. It may almost seem that the Left has to enter the government most like a government rescue package to get you some new ideas. Because in this debate, a mere effort is being made to use the big words. One speaks of a historical professional profession, but one has no new measures and only five million to the professional year. The Council of State was also no exception. He spent his entire article talking about digitisation and new technology, describing, explaining and demanding, not least, wise digitization. Yes, I fully agree, but this government has not had any digitization. All the concrete proposals we are adopting and discussing today are either the Left which has been included in the negotiations, or the Labour Party and the Committee which have been included. There is no systematics here – only big words and little action. The representative Tybring-Gjedde was concerned with learning and quality. So are we. I find it strange that the right today is against having more teachers in school, that the right is against a trust reform and not least against removing the testing, measurement and over-control that the school now sees. I'd rather invite Right to the debate that really matters to the teachers and students, and before one does, I see Tybring-Gjedde's moan as a rhetorical point. In addition, the Right systematically devalues the importance of the school environment, physical activity and health. I've heard Right say that fruit and physical activity are at the expense of students' learning. That's wrong. Sunny students learn more and not less. I still lack an answer from the Progress Party and the Chairman of the Committee: what will the Chairman of the Committee really be fighting for when a new government platform is to be designed? What is it that the Progress Party really has on concrete training requirements when it comes to designing the new visions for a new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2868	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2873	In terms of physical activity, it's definitely not detail management of subjects and content, it's ensuring our students a practical and actively oriented everyday life, because we know that works both for health and for learning. Activity learning is actually a separate part of education – I recommend that more people check it out. Otherwise, I can add that I am happy that eleven months of student support is being lifted, but one must actually point out that it is the students themselves who pay for it through an increased student loan rate. I would like to applaud the construction of student housing by the government and the representative Simonsen, but the Center Party would have built more. In the case of higher education, it is a pity that the funding system is used to redistribute and that structure and geography are more important than trade and quality. So finally, I just have to challenge when it comes to absenteeism: what kind of resource use is that? Here we have doctors and health sisters who today have enough to go through with the work they already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2884	Many of my friends are right now sitting with their noses well planted in the syllabus and making the last little effort that is to be made before the exam. A year ago, I honestly thought that I would sit with my nose in the book myself, but instead, I stand here and send a greeting to all the country's students who are now on and fighting through the final exams to contribute to the future Norway. They shall create values, whether in the form of economic values or knowledge, as a value in itself. The knowledge nation has almost become a cliché, but it is still important. And if we're going to be the best in the world at higher education and research, we also have to facilitate that students can acquire their talents, regardless of background. Today, some remain before the country's students can demonstrate their real potential. Because although the student movement has fought through a number of important Community solutions that allow more time to be spent on its studies, there are still barriers that allow not everyone to contribute to its full potential. First, the full-time student is a myth. The policy in Norway aims to ensure that students spend their working time studying, but because the student loan still does not last, the student spends an increasing proportion of his or her working week on the job instead. The result is clear: the students now have a degree of completion at a standard time of 40 p.m., and it costs society a lot. SV takes it seriously. We propose in our alternative budget to spend 286 million. kr to increase the study aid to 1.3 G. It'll be a big boost for the wallet for the country's students. Secondly, the country's students are thrown into an unsafe rental market where speculators take blood prices in the largest cities. I know several people who have lived in tents for a long time because they have not found a place to live that they can afford. We can't have it like that in Norway. Providing reasonable and decent student housing to more people will provide safer frameworks for students and less need to work alongside the studies. Also, it takes SV seriously; we suggest building 4,000 more student homes than the government does. Thirdly, and finally, we still need to increase the quality of higher education and research if students are to have their full potential exploited. It believes that we need to do this through, in particular, strengthening basic research and basic funding for free and independent research. That's why we're proposing $300 million. more than the government of the basic funding, and we do so because knowledge and independent institutions are a value in themselves. We need more of that and not just more order research from business. So to all students out there: SV wants happiness with exams!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2901	The representative Simonsen of the Progress Party wept bitterly at the fact that the left-hand side did not boast of the budget of the right-hand side. Then I have to say that it is not that the right side is so brilliant to distribute money, which means that there has been a little more money for things – they have also increased the government budget deficit by over 100 billion. kr per year. It's such a staggering sum that one almost can't see it separately. So when they've increased the deficit by over 100 billion. kr, they're able to fork away quite large parts of the tax cuts to the richest, and then you're left with a little bit of money at the bottom. Yes, we have e.g. 11 months of student support, but they did not have the money to finance it, so the students themselves have to pay an increased student fee to get in place. So yes, we're not particularly impressed with the right-hand side. Any person could have managed to budget well if you could increase the deficit by 100 billion. kr. But it turns out that in the long run, the income actually has to go up with the expenditure. Therefore, SV proposes to reduce the use of oil by several billion kroner. I am disappointed that the Workers' Party does not show the same measure of stomach, but in SV we are at least able to clearly prioritize. Then there's someone who disagrees with what we think the richest have to pay more in taxes. It's okay. But at least we can say that the generations of the future should not be those who have to pay for the Budget Party to the Right and the Advance Party in order for them to be able to pay off and bring with them the central parties. But that's not what I was really going to talk about. What I was really going to talk about was health. Now I get straight from training down here, because physical activity every day is very good. That is why both I and the representative of the Supreme Court are ready to extend the debate a little longer for those who are here – for now we have been moving. What we know is that children and young people learn better and become healthier if they get moving every day. But for us in SV, it's important that things should preferably happen with extended hours, more teachers and more resources, because we know that there's a lot going on in school. Therefore, the SV's primary position is that we should employ more teachers and extend the school day so that it becomes a practical and varied school day, with room for everything. In addition, we know that good eating habits are learned early. When we had fruit and green in school, the consumption of shower and candy among young people sank, and they ate more fruit and green not only at school, but also at home. It solves health challenges for the future, it's thinking ahead – not making a budget party where we spend all our savings today. I notice that the right-hand side representatives enjoy their free fruit and vegetables here at Stortinget, although they do not enjoy children in Norway the same right. It is simply about whether we should only prioritise the present or plan for the future. Are we going to spend the savings today or do we have a clear priority? Are we going to bet on preventive health work with physical activity at school – and school fruit – or are we going to spend the money today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2916	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2921	Although it is obvious that there is a budget debate, and there is a lot of talk about money, like the Council of State, I am concerned that we will in the future also have good education policy debates here in the Chamber about what results we achieve. There is no doubt that Norway, as one of the world's richest countries, is one of the countries that spends the most money per student at school, even when we look at countries in the OECD, with which it is quite relevant to compare ourselves. At the same time, we know that we do not fully achieve the results we want. We see things going better in primary school. More reading and raining better. We see that the drop-out rate in high school is falling, that more people are getting an apprenticeship, and that the university and higher education sectors are able to win more competition-based research projects. In this way, a lot is going well, but we have to stretch more, and the answer doesn't always have to be more money. Then I wish everyone a really good Christmas and a good new year. I thank you for the cooperation and look forward to continuing in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2928	Thank you in the same way. The representative Turid Kristensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2935	We have heard a number of allegations that the government has no school policy, no new measures, and no results in school policy either. I have to say that's quite special. It is possible that you don't want to see, but at the bottom of this debate I will be allowed to mention a few examples that can serve as a reminder. We have renewed the framework for kindergarten, and we have introduced the Teacher Lift with a record commitment to continuing training and the implementation of the teacher-specialist scheme. Early efforts started in the previous period and are now being continued, further new bullying laws and stepping up the fight against bullying, student teams, health sister and psychologist positions in the municipalities, the renewal of the profession, vocational training, post school investment, quality notification, humanities notification, structural reforms in higher education, long-term plan for higher education and research, increased student support and more than a doubling of support for student housing. It is also well known that students are more present at school, fewer falls from, more complete and the results have been improved. All credit to capable students and teachers, but it must be allowed to point out that the claim that the government has no policy should fall on its own unreasonableness. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2945	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2950	I must first say that it was just to be lacking that not a government that sits for four years and uses record oil money, also has something to point to. That's not what we're criticising. If the Council of State, Simonsen or others want more boast, I recommend them to go elsewhere than to a budget debate in Stortinget. It's about producing political differences. If the criticism is that we spend more money than the government, we also live well with it. If the representatives from the Right are really concerned with detail management – and here I believe that I hear the sound of a double standard – they should take into account that they send double signals to the schools and kindergartens by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation bringing up a measurement that really means that reduced staffing in the kindergartens increases efficiency. They should address what teachers point to as the greatest over-management of their everyday lives, namely the quality assessment system in school with testing, testing, measurement and reporting. As long as the government refuses to see that challenge and puts down its feet to do something about it, it may well be that the majority of people in this case also have to do the job for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2957	I would say that the speakers who have been up after my post underline my whole point. Because it is said from the Center Party – we get a thumb up to have built 2,000 dwellings – that they would have built 3,000 dwellings. But there's a big difference here -- you would have built 3,000, but you never did. Then I also have to thank the same representative for making me aware of another example, which I forgot to mention myself – I said I could mention in fleng – I could also have mentioned study support. The government gets criticism of not having increased study support enough, when it's actually about the biggest increase that's been made in ten years, and where you actually start introducing eleven months of study support. So it was said from SV that it would be strange if we couldn't get something to do with the huge tax reliefs that we give, and the big use of money we have, and one says that the money that ordinary people get is only small money. One has to almost wonder what is the usual income level of people in SV, when NOK 10,000 for a normal family is considered to be small money. There's actually so much tax haven't a normal family got from this government, and I think it's coming very well with now into Christmas. It's a grip that SV wants to take that could have made the deficit a lot bigger, and that's to stop all the investment and shut down the oil industry, which this year is contributing 130 billion. kr to the treasury. I want to believe that if we got into a situation where all that money was gone and we didn't have it anymore, it might well be that there had been a majority in the hall to cut the bridge course for 50-year-olds. It's no wonder that you have to spend money when the majority won't even participate in such a cut. Then the representative Henriksen concludes the debate in a fine way by stressing another point, namely, that he criticises the government for oil money, when he has wanted about the exact same oil money usage himself throughout all the years this government has been sitting. Then the entire attack again is totally exposed to justice. Then I will also mention a cut on which I will challenge Henriksen. It is proposed in the budget this year to cut 300 million. kr to private kindergartens, where half of the country's kindergarten children go. There are double standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2972	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2977	The representative Fagerås from SV asked if I understood SV's policy. The answer may be that I don't really, because I don't understand politicians who are going to give priority, who don't give priority to teaching students. Professionally up-to-date teachers also in practical-esthetic subjects, good professional communities in schools, reading real science, ICT betting, measures to combat bullying, strengthening special education – these are actions that we know work. I actually agree with the representative Arnstad: quality is difficult to measure. But the big difference in quality in Norwegian school is not really about the number of minutes of physical activity, the number of teachers or the number of hours, unfortunately. It would have been really nice if it were, but it's very often about competence, management and clear priorities. If we're to make sure that the school becomes a real social cohesion arena, if we're to make sure that it's actually not the wallet or the bookshelf at home that decides, we have to bet on what we know works, and not what we want worked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2982	The representative, Roy Steffensen, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2987	I have to say that I don't know the socialists in SV again. Earlier today, it became clear that they were opposed to reducing the parental payment in kindergartens when we introduced it, and the big issue now is to make sure that those who earn the most are getting cheaper kindergartens. Finally, the representative Wilkinson was up and taught the right side about how to finance the budgets. So there are new times in SV. It was pointed out from SV that we spend the savings. On my first day as a staging representative, the oil fund was 4 714 billion. kr. Now it's at 8 628 billion. kr. So there's nothing to suggest that the savings are used up by this government. Otherwise, I have been challenged by what is the vision of the Advance Party into a new government platform. That, of course, is our entire party programme. That's what's being put on the table on our first day of negotiation. With that, I would like to wish Christmas to the whole committee and everyone who has participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e2998	Yes, there is clearly a need for some economic education. The oil fund does not increase because the government is good at saving. This is increasing because we now have oil production in Norwegian history for a very short period of time. So the question is, are we going to divide those resources by the generations of the future, or are we going to spend everything now? The government budget deficit has increased by over 100 billion. kr – 100 br. kr in an increased deficit on the state budget, which must be taken from our savings – and then they stand here and boast of 1 or 2 billion more on education and certain fields. They missed a message from the left. I'll give you some credit. Also, the right has not, this time, carried out the major school privatisation they tried at the last time they crashed. That's good. They have been overrun by the Christian People's Party and are now implementing SV policies with increased teacher's density. That's good. They have even voted in favour of the SV’s proposal to review the increasing differences in Norway. That's good, too. But it's not that hard to understand how the differences in Norway are increasing, when we see how these people make budgets. I've had a tax cut on under a beer for a week. The richest in Norway have received NOK 11 200 each week. You don't have to be math to understand that this increases differences. It was said by the representative of the Progress Party that we should only drill for more oil – that is the solution to all the world's problems. But it has to be that oil we can't live on forever. I think everyone outside this room understands that, and that should also be understood by the representatives of the right-hand side. Then the question is, shall we now prepare for the future that comes, or shall we stand with our heads down in the oil age as long as we can, and then suddenly stand without new competence? Therefore, in its education budget, SV proposes to shift research efforts from oil and petroleum alone to renewable industries, in the future industries, because the money we invest today is what creates the Norway of the future. Therefore, SV suggests preventing problems instead of just curing them. We are proposing to cut the government budget deficit that explodes on the right, because we are saving for future generations. We propose shifting research from petroleum and old-fashioned technology to renewable technology and shifting skills, the skilled people from the oil industry, so that we can use that competence in other and renewable industries. It's rusting Norway for the future. I think Kåre Willoch had turned around – yes he can't turn around in the grave yet, because he's alive. But Kåre Willoch once talked about that conservatism was about building Norway for the future and changing to preserve. If you want to keep it, you can't drive and crush the piggy pig and spend all the money now. That's why we have to stop spending so much oil money. And no, the right-hand side won't get any praise from the left-hand side for how they can prioritize, as long as they increase the deficit in the budget by over 100 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3013	The President will remind the representative that there is a school and research debate and not a financial debate today. The representative of Marit Arnstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3020	I think one might have to assume that it's also being mixed up in a little bit of economics. It is sad, just before Christmas, that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not feel that they get the applause and the cheers they want. But the debate needs to be put in perspective. Today we have a prime minister who is responsible for more use of oil money than all the prime ministers before her. That's the situation we're in. That's why I want to tell the representative Simonsen that it's absolutely right that the Center Party says that 2,000 student homes are good, but that the Center Party would have suggested more. In other words, we would give priority to something different than this government. We are in that period of Norwegian history as oil money is the largest, and today's debate is about how to prioritize the use of this money. The Right Party and the Advance Party have largely prioritised them for tax relief. We wanted to give them priority to other things, including: education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3029	The representative Mona Lill Fagerås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3035	I had to take the floor at the end, because the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gedde said something that was actually not true. SV is not against professional update and competence enhancement. What we are against is the retrospective force – the same as both the Federation of Education and the National Association of Schools say. To the representative Roy Steffensen, who is proud that the government has provided cheaper kindergartens: unfortunately, almost no one is using that scheme. The easiest thing would be – for a Progress Party man who does not want more bureaucracy – to maintain the system for which the child care agreement’s mother agreed, namely low parental pay, low maximum price for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3042	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3058	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3074	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3086	: Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3095	A total of 47 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-18, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 19-21, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 22 and 23, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 24, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 25, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party, Socialist Left Party and Left proposed no. 26-37, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Party of Central and Socialist Left Party proposed no. 38-42, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 43-46, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 47, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red The President takes note of the fact that proposal No. 5 was withdrawn during the debate. Proposal No. 47, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Odda Hospital is maintained at today’s level and strengthened with new tasks, in line with the recommendations of the Stortinge on 15 May this year.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3139	The Christian People's Party must also vote in favour!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3144	The Christian People's Party will also speak out for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3156	Proposal No. 43-45, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to order more user-guided beds in mental health protection through the mission documents of regional health companies.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to impose penalties on municipalities that force the elderly in hospital homes to live in double rooms against their will.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to explain to the Government about the dental class divisions and to propose measures to increase the availability of dental care they need.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3185	Proposal No. 46, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to strengthen rehabilitation and rehabilitation, including physical therapy. The plan shall ensure that several diagnostics are covered by the free treatment system.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3202	Proposal No. 38-42, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government requests the implementation of a compensation scheme from January 2018 for non-profit institutions serving households’ historical pension costs as outlined in the draft government budget and return to the State budget for 2018 with the necessary improvements to the scheme, including the setting of the break point for compensation until the date of entry into force of the scheme.’;» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the proportions of Haukeland University Hospitals can be completed by 2022.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Kristiansund hospitals are not sold.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan for the specialist health services to be in a new hospital in Hjelset and Kristiansund, and how new buildings should be realized financially without compromising the patient’. Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to split up Health South-East.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3243	Proposal No. 30, 31 and 34, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the Government for trust reform in the healthcare system, where forms and reports are exchanged with confidence in professional judgement to the greatest extent possible.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that tasks of normal operation are carried out internally in the hospitals, not through the use of cost-effective consultants or outsourcing.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide better training and procedures to maintain oral health for hospital residents and users of home care.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3272	Proposal No. 26–29, 32, 33 and 35–37, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take international cooperation initiatives to maximise access to new medicines and to stop overpriced medicines.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks whether vaccines against water cups and meningococcal serogroup C should be included in the paediatric vaccination programme’.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for national production capacity on the vaccines in the paediatric vaccination programme.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a national strategy for alcohol prevention.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the regulation of the Cancer Register so that they can obtain data on the woman’s country of birth.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen the follow-up of veterans with mental health problems and to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an overview of the status of the actions in the action plan ‘Serviced for Norway’ and to make time-consuming progress’. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks that alternatives to estrogen supplements for post-cancer adverse reactions be included in the bladder prescription scheme for cancer patients with cervical cancer or breast cancer’.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider exempting all children up to the age of 18 from GMP excesses from 2019’.» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a new sample with a clear mandate to propose alternative models for the management of specialist health services to replace the current health business law.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3332	Proposal No. 25, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for information on the right to free dental treatment for home-care residents and residents of nursing homes to be made available to the services and for information to be made available to relatives.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3349	Proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to increase the borrowing rate of large hospital investments from 70 per cent to 80 per cent.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3366	Proposal No. 22 and 23, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an expert group with a mandate to present proposals that reduce the reporting burden in Norwegian hospitals. The mandate and composition of the group are presented in the revised national budget 2018 and the group input shall form the basis for the hospital mission document in 2019.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the removal of the restriction to prevent health sisters and midwives from being entitled to all forms of contraception for young people under 16 years of age.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3390	Proposal No. 19 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to continue to include odontophobia in the terms of social security disbursement under Section 1 paragraph. 14 in the Regulation on the reimbursement of costs of examination and treatment of dental practitioners and dental practitioners for disease.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3408	Proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess a division of Health South-East with a background in the possibility of better governance and operation.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3425	Proposal No. 21 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with its own case to the Stortinget for the follow-up of NOU 2016:25 Organisation and management of the specialist health service.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3442	Proposal No. 4, 8 and 9 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate so-called ‘free treatment’ and, instead, to strengthen the free choice of hospitals, with an obligation for the agencies and hospitals to inform where and how patients can get the best and the fastest possible treatment.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that critical operational tasks in hospitals are performed as internal operations, instead of outsourcing services.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a principle that health businesses should always consider carrying out a task on their own before selecting commercial solutions’. Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e3471	Proposal No. 1–3, 6, 7 and 10–18, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new tobacco strategy to be developed by the government.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national action plan for the work against hepatitis C, with the aim of ensuring that no infection or death of hepatitis C occurs in Norway by 2025, and that all patients have access to safe and effective treatment. The Agency’s draft hepatitis strategy, dated December 2015, must be used as a basis for the preparation of the action plan.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the specialist health service is exempted from the ABE cuts in the government’s budget proposal for 2019 – if the government continues to reform.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to strengthen the objectives of increasing the number of employees offered full-time jobs.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals generally employ people in permanent positions in order to ensure their competence and security.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back on its own in the 2019 government budget on how to increase the number of LIS1 positions from 2019.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reverse the neutral VAT system in healthcare companies.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Jobbfast is continued in 2018 as a health offer for alerts, with at least the same treatment capacity as in 2017.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked not to proceed with Helfo’s recommendation on a new office structure.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new strategy for immigrant health to be developed by the government.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to close the State funding of municipal care for the elderly and to ensure that the saved administrative costs can go to various good measures for the elderly.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to re-establish the system of the cultural spaserstock.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set aside by the government to continue the work started in St.meld. No 20 [[2006-2007]] Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess whether to take a higher percentage of the wage costs of continuing training for community nurses in order to enhance the competence of health, care and care services in as many municipalities as possible across the country, and to ask the government to return to this in the revised national budget.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e6665	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have already provided subsidiary support for the recommendation. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e6709	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e8615	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-8, by Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Mona Lill Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposed no. 11 and 12, by Mona Lill Fagerås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 11 and 12 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests that the cost framework be raised to NOK 900000 per unit of furniture as an emergency measure to ensure the construction of student housing during the budget period, without pre-empting the notified review of the grant scheme.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the revised national budget for 2018 to increase the proportion of student housing allowances from today’s level by between 34.3 pst. and 37,5 pst. to 50 pst. of the cost framework as it has been in the past, in order to avoid disproportionately paying the students through the rent.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e8654	Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote a legislative proposal during the spring of 2018 that legislates the right to camp school stays.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e8671	Proposal No. 9, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish sign language as a separate subject area of Statped and to facilitate the establishment of a network of focal points schools, where Statped is given a coordinator role.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e8688	Proposal No. 1-8, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to identify the real equipment needs at schools in order to meet all the curriculum objectives and the relevance of vocational training, with a view to introducing a top-level funding for specific resource-intensive training programmes.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify the need for increased continuing training in the light of the change in Norwegian working life and to clarify the role of vocational schools as providers of continuing training in order to meet the needs.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan to increase the number of colleges adapted to the needs of Norwegian working life in the years to come, taking into account the need for conversion and a high level of technology.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a matter on the role of study centres in the education system by the autumn of 2018.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to monitor ICT skills needs and to develop a national strategy to strengthen digital skills in key areas.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start work with the aim of increasing the number of study places in medicine in Norway, including the assessment of increasing the number of places of study, and to return to the Stortinget with an assessment in the revised national budget 2018.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on a new and up-to-date living conditions survey among Norwegian students.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government of the revised national budget is asked to come back to the Grand Duchy with a review of the impact of the changes in the grant and loan schemes for secondary education students since 2014 and an assessment of whether the level of exit of equipment respects the principle of equal rights to education.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e12225	It's getting wet over A, I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e12239	It's going to be over A, IV. The Central Party and the Left Party have already received subsidiary support for the recommendation. The Labour Party, the Environmental Party of Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e12255	A, II, III and V-VIII shall be voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have already provided subsidiary support for the recommendation. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e12324	B, I and V-IX will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e12334	It's going to be past B, IV. The right hand side and the progress side have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e12348	It's getting wet over B, III. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e12362	It's going to be over B, II. Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e13860	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-19.ana.ud582e13881	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
