ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e62	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Nordic region: Kjell-Idar Juvik For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e81	I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on behalf of Mr Arnstad, Mr Myhrvold, Mr Pollestad, Mr Mossleth, Mr Enger Mehl, and myself on the change in the policy on predatory game.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e86	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e106	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e115	We have an obligation to give protection to people who need it, but an influx in the extent that we experienced in 2015 puts our society to the test. Not least it concerns the sustainability of our welfare systems. That is why we need to regulate immigration to Norway. When the Storting dealt with changes in the Foreign Affairs Act, with different types of restrictions, in the so-called asylum agreement, it was precisely in the light of the large influxes of asylum seekers. A large proportion came through Russia, via Storskog, the border crossing point in East Finland. No one had dreamed of getting over there with bicycles. It says something about how unpredictable the situation is. When the Storting process dealt with these rules, exceptions were made to the general rule on general consultation, as the rapid and high inflow made it necessary to implement specific measures. The majority decided that the proposed changes to the law should be made temporarily, and that the Storting should return with an evaluation of these changes to the law. It has now been two years, and we have got the case to Stortinget. Evaluation and consultation have been carried out, and the government proposes the continuation of the temporary legislative changes adopted at the time. This applies, inter alia, to: instruction authority on the Foreign Study, the right not to take an application for protection for processing into reality if the applicant comes from a safe third country, the obligation to notify the place of residence, detention and detention in the event of a risk of avoidance, a place of accommodation other than Trandum and further that shorter time limits may be imposed on departure and return. The proposition is extensive. It also deals with the police record of interpreters, the need for it, temporary work permits for asylum seekers and family start-ups, following a request from the Workers' Party. The Board of Appeal shall be composed of a majority for the continuation of the restraints, with the exception of the continuation of the commanding authority vis-à-vis the Foreign Letter. The Right Party and the Progressive Party believe that the policy direction of the foreign field should preferably be by law and regulation, but in some cases the instruction authority will be a more appropriate tool, particularly in the case of urgent clarifications and changes. Changing the law and regulations is time-consuming. The Right Party and the Progressive Party therefore support the continuation. Wars and conflicts near Europe’s borders increase the risk of influx. Although we are now in a period of small influxes of asylum seekers, we know little about what the future can bring. Anxiety around the Middle East, Africa and what's happening in Russia's frontier country, we know little about, and it's important that we have a tool and not least a readiness to deal with situations quickly. There is also a high degree of uncertainty associated with secondary movements within Europe. Norway must be prepared for a return to arrival rates, and not least for human traffickers to establish new routes. Our experience from 2015 has made it clear that we just need a preparedness and a tool to deal with situations quickly. It was a criticism from the opposition in 2015 that you did not have the necessary tools and that you did not do enough. That's exactly what we want to avoid right now, by giving the government the opportunity to have these tools. Several representatives from the opposition parties, in particular the Workers' Party, have made this criticism. But now they're voting down an important tool and a readiness to deal with a dramatic increase. There will always be a discussion about the strictness of asylum policy and whether practices are within our Convention obligations. These are discussions we have to take, even though they are difficult and demanding. I refer to the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e140	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e145	Thank you to the President-in-Office. The Workers' Party supports a majority of the proposals that have been submitted and that are a continuation of the decisions on which the Workers' Party took part in 2015. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have a strict, fair and humane asylum and immigration policy, and that we have legislation that ensures control of our borders. The national assembly of the Labour Party has established these principles on several occasions, and therefore we will also vote in favour of a majority of the proposals in the vote. With regard to UNE and the continuation of the command authority, the Workers' Party will vote against. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party indicate that it is proposed to continue the amendments to the second paragraph of Section 76 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which means that the Ministry has the same right of instruction in relation to the Foreign Affairs Department as it has in relation to the Foreign Affairs Directorate. It is clear that, following the temporary amendment of the law of 2015, the Ministry currently has the same instruction authority to UNE as it has to UDI in terms of interpretation of the law and the exercise of discretion, i.e. that the Department can control both UDI and UNE practices through general instructions. We stress that UNE should be an independent judicial body, and that the starting point is that UNE should be except for political governance. We point out that the UNE's independent position should guarantee predictability and non-discrimination under changing regimes, especially in areas where Norway has also committed itself internationally. We see this as a very heavy argument, and we therefore do not support the continuation of the commanding authority towards UNE, as the government wants. The majority of the population now correct the government and the Council of State for the second time in a short time, and to say it this way: the government and the Council of State are not certain that this should be done a third and a fourth time. Then I'm just going to say a short word about what Mr. Örmen Johnsen says about criticism from the Workers' Party about defective tools in 2015. It was a criticism that the government did not react in 2015 when the situation that was about to arise was seen. That's what the criticism went on, and that criticism stands today. The second proposal not supported by the Workers' Party is the 24-year requirement for family start-up. We have another suggestion about that. This goes back to the treatment of Prop. 90 L for 2015–2016, and we point out that the aim is to combat coercion. The proposal was adopted by a majority in Stortinget and entered into force on 1 January 2017. However, in dealing with that proposition, another majority of the following requests were raised: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals on six years’ work or education requirements in Norway before family start-ups can take place.’ It also joined the Progress Party and the Right Party, so it was a majority. And then we say, ‘Members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party consider it more appropriate to introduce a six-year requirement’ — rather than a 24-year requirement — ‘for work or training before family establishment may take place, where counting starts at 18 years’.’ We therefore believe that it is more targeted to make demands for work or education in Norway by extending this – for the purpose of combating coerciveness and not least for the sake of integration as such. I see that time goes by, so I don't go into all the other suggestions. I have referred to them in general. But in the case of proposal No. 3 in the setting, we have an addition in the first sentence. the first sentence is replaced by the following: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals on six years’ work or education requirements in Norway before family start-ups can take place, starting to count at 18 years’ age.’ That's the last thing that's added. With this, I address the suggestions made by the Workers' Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e186	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the suggestions he referred to. And the president has noted the supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e191	The issue we are going to deal with today is a consequence of the refugee flow in 2015. It became clear, for most people at least, that it had to be taken to deal with the situation, and the government also seized. In order to protect the institution of asylum, it is important to ensure that it is not misused, and in order to achieve it, we must have instruments that can be used when the situation requires it. It was especially after large arrivals suddenly over Storskog, that several restrictions were adopted. If you have been given residence in a safe country and have not been persecuted, it is an important principle that you cannot move on to a new country in order to seek asylum. The asylum institute is under pressure, and this kind of exploitation will help erode the scheme even more. Therefore, there are good reasons to refuse treatment of an asylum application when coming from a third country where there is no persecution and residence. The majority have announced that they want to continue this scheme, and I am pleased about that. We need to have control of people we do not know about, and we need to have control of people who are unlikely to have their application dealt with in Norway. The best way to do this is to introduce the possibility of apprehending and keeping them under control until they are sent out. The aim is to prevent people who have no reason to seek asylum in Norway from disappearing and staying here illegally. It is also gratifying to see that the majority is behind the continuation of these constraints. What's not as pleasing is that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are once again out there and are winging in other areas. It seems that they have completely forgotten what happened during the refugee crisis in 2015. They then saw the need to introduce an instruction authority to UNE. It is when something unexpected happens that action and political leadership are important. The Special Court Committee has examined the organisation of the UN, and they have concluded that UNE should not be replaced by an administrative court, inter alia. because there is a need for political governance in the foreign field. Instructions from the Ministry may never relate to individual matters. They can never go across laws, regulations and international agreements. All cases can also be brought before the Court in the usual way. Therefore, the argument that the authorising authority weakens legal certainty is not a valid argument. Experience has shown that the department has been detained to use the command authority. It is the law and regulation that are the main rule, but sometimes it can be essential to have rapid clarification of practices and interpretations. It is particularly special to see the argument from the Centre Party to remove the instruction authority. They consider that the authorising authority should not be given in a normal situation but should be able to be established if specific circumstances so warrant. That's exactly why you should go in order to keep the instruction authority now. That's how you can be prepared for special circumstances. Once such special conditions have already occurred, it is too late to start changing the laws to reintroduce it. Both the Workers' Party and the Center Party criticized the government for being unprepared for the refugee flow over Storskog in 2015. The reason why we were not prepared was that we did not have the tools that we have now put in place. It is then sad to see that one has now forgotten the whole situation and now takes active action to ensure that Norway is again unprepared for any new situation. From 1 January we introduced a 24-year limit on the establishment of a family with a foreign spouse. The main reason for this is to combat coercion. All parties, except the Workers' Party, want to continue today's order, and that's very good. Unfortunately, the working party also wants to soften the legislation and open the doors for more forced marriage. Since the Labour Party will replace the 24-year rule with a 6-year requirement for work or education, which shall not apply to Norwegian nationals, this is an embellishment. Many young people at risk of coercion are Norwegian citizens, and the Workers' Party's proposal will remove the most important instrument we have to prevent forcible rape for a large and vulnerable group. This shows that the Workers' Party does not really want to do anything about social control and that kind of unculture. Fortunately, it does not get a majority. All in all, we are satisfied that, except for one tightening, everyone is continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e212	On 16 November 2015, Stortinget adopted tightening-up of the Foreign Affairs Act. The situation at Storskog required rapid action, and the decisions we made had expired on 1 January 2018. The Storting also asked the government to come back to Stortinget with an evaluation of the legislative changes in two years. Now we have, as provided, the matter back. From the fact that we experienced very large numbers of refugees in 2015, of which 5,400 across the border station towards Russia, the situation has now turned upside down. The number of asylum seekers to Norway has fallen dramatically in the last two years. The government indicates in the proposition that in 2016 three asylum seekers came over Storskog and that no one has come this far in 2017. This does not mean that the number of people on the run from war and persecution has fallen similarly. Inflows into Norway have mainly been reduced as it has become more difficult to get here. Refugee routes are more or less closed, and we have also introduced border controls that make it more difficult to enter the country. The centre lot supported the restrictions introduced in 2015. We believe that the changes that were made were necessary to deal with the situation that was then. The question we have to ask ourselves now is whether it is right to continue these measures. The situation is quite different than it was in 2015. At the same time, we know that the situation can quickly turn around again. The Central Party underlines in its programme that the Party will conduct a responsible and decent refugee and asylum policy based on our international commitments, humanitarian traditions and our national capacity. We stress that Norway should have clear asylum practices, but that anyone seeking asylum in Norway should have security to ensure legal certainty. We know that very many of those who came to Norway in 2015 have not received refugee status. Approximately half of the cases dealt with last year ended in rejection, according to the statistics of UDI and UNE. I think it is right to have a law that provides the means to distinguish between people who are entitled to stay under the right of asylum and those who will be refused. I see that much of the debate will revolve around whether we have too strict a law, and that low acceptance rates are the result of a strict immigration policy. Perhaps so, but it is probably so that many of those who today are not granted asylum or stay would not have had it with the adjustments to the law proposed by individual parties. The Central Party is united with the majority in the position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, which considers that most of the measures of the Foreign Affairs Act adopted in 2015 are still needed. We justify this with great uncertainty as to how the refugee situation will develop in the future. On a main point, we're separating ourselves from the government. This concerns the maintenance of the department’s freedom of instruction over the Foreign Office, UNE. The tightening up we introduced in 2015 means that the Department can control both UDI's and UNE's practices through general instructions. Many have seen this as the most difficult and controversial part of the temporary changes made in 2015. When we supported it in 2015, it was based on an extraordinary situation in Storskog. We also underlined the time when doubts arose and adopted the change as a temporary one, and we asked for an evaluation. I record that the repeal of the decision on the Department's UNE commanding authority became the most important topic of the committee hearing we carried out. Everyone who took part in the hearing considered that the UNE commanding authority should be removed. In the proposition, the Ministry points out that the main argument against an instructional access over UNE has been that this is not considered to be compatible with an independent naming scheme. So the ministry says that these considerations cannot be decisive in today's situation, where there is a need for political governance of practices when deemed appropriate. This is where we disagree with the government. In the current situation, fundamental considerations indicate that the UNE character of being an independent body is being reintroduced. UNE shall receive its mandate through our national legislation in the field of asylum and not in continuous instructions from the Ministry. UNE is subject to laws and regulations. The Council of State may, at any time, take the initiative to amend laws and regulations if it deems it necessary. The centre party believes that Norwegian asylum policy has served to provide us with a complaint handling process through UNE that is perceived as independent. The UN Commanding Authority was given in an exceptional situation. The center party believes that we cannot guarantee that such a situation does not occur again. If that is the case, the Storting may reintroduce the instruction authority at short notice, but in a normal situation, UNE should appear as the independent and judicial body it was intended to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e235	First, I would like to address the proposals to which SV is co-sponsored. It's been two years since the Stortinget – in the SV's view – took some of the least honorable decisions we've made. Without consultation and without comitology, major changes were made to the right of asylum, changes made by the body set up to interpret this, namely the UN, are contrary to our international obligations. I have to say I'm worried, because it's in times of crisis that we have to stick to the principles that are going to regulate how we're going to behave civilised and in a humane way in a slightly difficult situation. The government did not respond to the serious signals that there were very many asylum seekers. SV asked for a crisis meeting in Stortinget in August and got no. The government put forward a budget in October with cuts in these areas. That's what's not being prepared. What is serious is that they reaped great political benefits in this room by joining the changes that were then made by the majority, with the exception of the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens, and as it has been shown in retrospect that they have not been able to use much of the money either. There are a number of people who have been involved in the UN Commanding Authority. SV believes that it is fundamentally wrong and is pleased that the majority now takes it away. It's about the rule of law. But the result of these instructions was the famous Storskog instructions. It has subsequently proved to be as SV then said, that we have to deal with these matters under ordinary procedure. It had gone faster, it had been cheaper, and several of them that could be returned because they did not have a protection basis, could have been returned. Now some of them have been in reception for two years. There has also been a willingness to define countries by country as safe, so as to avoid the change that was made when removing the requirement to return to a third country, to have access to a secure asylum procedure where they come. Yes, there are many who are safe in Russia, but many of those who came do not necessarily know that. What is important is to check if they have a reason for asylum to come. This is Norway’s commitment, and Norway has that commitment regardless of what any other country does. We know how poor it is to access asylum procedures in Russia. Those who have a safe stay there and who do not have grounds for asylum would, of course, be able to return. However, for those with grounds for asylum, Norway has an independent right to either process the asylum application here or return it to a country where there is access to asylum procedure. This is the bottom line of the right of asylum. This is what it is all about – that you should not be returned to a country where you, for example. will not receive asylum or will be returned to a country where persecution is being carried out. There are these principles the majority still don't see that we're on the whole side of the line of. When we discussed the urgent proposals on 14 November, Jonas Gahr Støre said something important from this pulpit. He said that the manager of the UDI had been out and said that we were close to the line when it came to our obligations. Jonas Gahr Støre also said that we shouldn't be there, we should be good within the right side. It's a piece of yours yet. The changes that the majority are now continuing are not necessary in order to have a strict asylum policy, for it has Norway. There is no one in this Chamber who believes that an asylum policy should be adopted where those who do not have the right to protection receive it. No one thinks so, but we believe that the procedures and rules we have in Norway should ensure that we do not return any to persecution or danger, and that it is our duty to ensure that this happens in Norway. I believe that the Storting must come back to this and to the way in which we interpret international conventions, because I think there are insufficient case studies in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e256	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e261	In the autumn of 2015, we experienced an increasing number of asylum seekers coming to Norway from Russia and crossing the border on Storskog. In October and November 2015, more than 5 000 asylum seekers crossed a border where a dozen people had previously arrived. There was a new situation for Norway, and we agreed in Stortinget to take some action. A high overall number of asylum seekers in 2015 also created challenges for our reception apparatus, and it became demanding for UDI to accommodate asylum seekers as they arrived. But it's important to stress that there was never a big crisis. Although Norway accepted more than 31,000 asylum applications in 2015, history shows that it was within what we were able to handle, and we should remember that five times as many came to Sweden. However, the backbone of the legislative changes was the increase in the number of asylum seekers who came over Storskog, and not least that most were referred to as so-called groundless asylum seekers. The intention was to stop the flow of asylum seekers who had stayed in Russia. It is therefore somewhat alarming that the government acknowledges that the changes did not have this effect. It was not the Stortinget emergency decision in October 2015 that stopped the stream over Storskog. Despite express treatment in Stortinget, the changes were too late. The current was already stopped, and in retrospect we see that very few of those who came were sent back. At the same time, the government believes that it is necessary to proceed with the changes. In general, the introduction of temporary measures and the conclusion that the measures did not have the desired effect would result in the closure of the measures. The immigration field is obviously completely different from all other political fields, and here the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Right and the Advance Party find themselves together again. The ministry writes that although no return was sent to Russia, some were returned to Greece. If there is any country that already has enough asylum seekers, it is probably Greece. The majority did not deal with changes in the Foreign Affairs Act to send more people back to Greece. The left supported the temporary changes, with the exception of the right of instruction to the Foreign Letter. But now that we clearly see that the measures did not have the effect we wanted, we see no reason to continue them. Asylum seekers are entitled to legal certainty, and in Norway we should be in the forefront of providing basic legal certainty guarantees. As a small country, Norway has always been concerned with international rules and the importance of supporting international law. It must also apply in the field of immigration and in the Convention on Refugees. The majority of the Committee considers that there is a basis for extended detention and detention facilities, even if there is no practical experience in their application. For the Left, it is important not to treat asylum seekers as criminals in the first place. The right to asylum is fundamental, and we must be generous with people on the run, people who can carry cruel experiences, and who have fled from everything that is close and dear. When we lower the prison threshold, it's to protect ourselves more than they do, and it's dramatic to the target. This tightening had no effect on Storskog, and it is pointed out in the consultation round that the restriction on families with children and children could make it difficult to enforce in practice. Then we see in the left no reason to make these contractions permanent. We stand by the fact that the Foreign Affairs Department should be an independent complaint body to ensure that asylum seekers have effective access to justice, in compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights. In that case, political governance cannot be controlled in line with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. We who work on this know that the foreign field is a demanding field, where life and death for the individual can stand. Incorrect assessment of whether it is safe in the home country can have fatal consequences. Therefore, it is important that the denominator is independent in its assessment. Going to court is impossible for most asylum seekers, and that is why it is so important. I am therefore pleased that we now have a majority for an independent UN, and I will praise the Workers' Party and the Centre for a wise turnaround. We should have liked the majority to have also been willing to give more asylum seekers a more meaningful everyday life while waiting for their case to be resolved. Unemployment is, as you know, the root of all evil, and most of us agree that work is good both for individuals and for society. Exemptions from the requirement to carry out asylum interviews are good, but we also need to reduce the requirements for ID and remove the requirements for submitted travel documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e285	The matter we are dealing with today is complex and demanding. It is essentially about how we treat people who come to Norway to seek asylum. For some people it seems to be about signal policies and symbols and whether or not we should have open borders. But that's not what this is all about. It is about the principles on which we must build asylum policy, which is worthy of the rule of law. The Christian People's Party represents a responsible and fair immigration policy. We will ensure a predictable policy that ensures key guarantees of legal certainty. We do not deviate from – and we do not negotiate away – demands for international law and human rights. That is what we are demanding. When Stortinget dealt with the so-called urgent decisions in the autumn of 2015, the Christian People's Party was given the impression that the changes would only apply for two years. In addition, it was agreed that the changes should be evaluated. These included: important because all the proposals had not been at normal consultation. The two-year deadline and the evaluation would also ensure that a better decision-making basis was provided to assess whether there was a real need for changes, before they could be made permanent. When the proposal was the subject of a consultation within the Committee, the hearing bodies were unisoningly opposed to the continuation of the urgent decisions, in particular the proposal to give the government the authority to instruct UNE. The issue of authorising authority has been assessed a number of times, most recently in NOU 2010: 12. The committee then recommended that we not give the government an instruction authority in asylum matters. The reason was that legitimacy and independence would weaken, as well as trust and legal certainty. The government also points out in the proposition that political governance of the foreign field should be governed by law and regulation, but that instruction authorities will ensure the ability to act quickly and provide more detailed instructions in times of uncertain asylum arrivals and that judicial proceedings will provide real appeals. Most hearing bodies did not support the continuation of the proposal. UNE, for its part, has pointed out in its consultation response that there is frequency and the extent and detail of the instructions that determine whether the body is independent or not. NOAS has pointed out that Norway will be the only country in Europe that may have such an instruction authority over the Board of Appeal. Access to political governance by the government is at present high, as central parts of the foreign right are regulated. It believes that the Christian People's Party is clearly opposed to giving the government the authority of instruction. It is contrary to a genuine two-way handling if the government can instruct both UDI and UNE, in addition to weakening legal certainty. There is also little socio-economic evidence that cases need to be brought before the courts instead of having a real appeal procedure in the UN. That is why the Christian People's Party voted against giving instruction to the government in 2015, and that is why we are voting against it today. We are also examining proposals to continue to refuse the processing of asylum applications to countries they have travelled through or stayed in, without knowing whether they will receive an application for asylum there. Before 2015, it was only possible to refuse substantive treatment and return asylum seekers to a safe third country if an application for protection was to be dealt with there. Norsk Folkehelp has pointed out that if this is adopted, Norway is becoming more stringent in this area than the EU, as the EU procedural directive contains conditions for an asylum application to be dealt with in a third country. Red Cross, for its part, believes that the proposal violates international law, and UNE questions whether there is a real need to continue the change. They also point out that it is not necessarily more time-consuming to deal with a case under Section 28 than a refusal to deal with reality. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not want to continue this, and it is sad that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party support this, in addition to all the other government proposals – apart from the authority of instruction. The Christian People's Party welcomes the government's proposal to lower the threshold for work permits for asylum seekers. Of course, we cannot help all people who suffer distress in the world. We don't have the capacity to do that. But that is not what the immigration debate is really about either. No one wants open borders, but we want good and valid rules. That is why the Christian People's Party is voting against all the 2015 convergence proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e310	The Government has submitted a proposal for several changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. Two years have passed since the temporary restraints were adopted by Stortinget. The main reason for this was the dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway in the autumn of 2015, and in particular the large influx over Storskog. The legislative changes have been evaluated, as the Stortinget wanted, and the evaluation and proposals for continuation have been widely consulted. The contractions that took place in 2015 were important for controlling the asylum flow to Norway. I recall that Norway received more than 31 000 asylum seekers in 2015, and more than 5 000 of these came over Storskog. Although the asylum flow to Norway is considerably lower now, in my opinion, the restrictions adopted in 2015 are still needed. I am very pleased that of all the proposals we are proposing, only one is not adopted by the Stortinget today. Both the extended possibility of refusing the substantive treatment of asylum applications and the restriction of the exit period, the obligation to notify and the specific place of residence, and as regards the apprehension and imprisonment of applicants to be returned quickly to a safe third country, as it appears, will be adopted in the Stortinget today. This clearly shows that the Storting acknowledges the importance of keeping a strict line, and that we have the best possible preparedness for any new and demanding situation. Even when the asylum flow to Norway is low, a consistent and predictable line in immigration policy is important. There is considerable uncertainty about the number of migrants planning to travel to Europe in the future. There is also uncertainty about secondary movements within Europe. Norway must therefore be prepared for the return of arrivals and for new routes to be established by human traffickers. I believe it is absolutely central that we have a regulatory framework that facilitates the efficient and appropriate handling of any new increase in arrival figures. One of the important proposals that will ensure that the government has the necessary preparedness in the event of new situations is to continue the department’s authority to instruct the Foreign Affairs Department. This means that the Ministry may give general instructions on interpretation of the law and the exercise of discretion to the foreign student in the same way as to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. This authority is primarily important for rapid clarifications. Of course, all instructions must be within the applicable laws and our obligations under international law. Just as the other restraints are now being continued and the Stortinget thus acknowledges the need for a tough course, strict line and necessary preparedness, the government had wanted the Stortinget to understand that the authority to instruct UNE is also an important tool in this respect. Several representatives from the opposition parties, especially the Workers' Party, strongly criticized the government for not acting faster when it came to the influx over Storskog in the autumn of 2015. Now Stortinget is voting down an important tool to deal with any dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers. It will be important to be able to react as quickly as possible through a large influx to Norway. If the authorising authority is not continued, the government will lose an important instrument for the prompt management of the situation. In political debates, we have seen representatives who have said that this commanding authority has been used to push for tightening up and weaken legal certainty. This isn't right. It has, among other things, have been used to follow up the asylum settlement. Furthermore, the Ministry has given two instructions that help to strengthen legal certainty for converters, which has been a difficult but important matter. In the light of the instruction authority, it is open to a priest or other member of the congregation to meet more closely and to comment on the conversion in an examination meeting. A resource selection has also been set up to be consulted by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Labour Party proposes to lift the 24-year requirement in family start-up cases instead of introducing a requirement for six years of work or education in Norway. This is a proposal that will put work against forced marriage in reverse. A few weeks ago, we dealt with an interpellation from the Workers' Party representative Jan Bøhler, where it was clearly announced that the government was expected to do what we could to counteract forced marriage and honour culture. In view of this, the proposal of the Labour Party is a paradox. The 24-year requirement in family start-up cases is aimed at combating forced marriages, as people aged 24 would like to be more independent and make their own choices than younger ones. The proposals of the Labour Party are not suitable for protecting Norwegian citizens, as are many second-generation immigrants, from being subjected to forced marriages. In summary, I would like to stress that there is still a need for the contractions. We are pleased that most of the proposals are being passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e336	The national meeting of the Labour Party decided to increase the number of quota refugees for 2015-2017. The government parties and the state council claimed that this was the reason why more than 30 000 refugees came to Norway in 2015 and that we were largely responsible for the whole refugee crisis in Europe. To follow the logic of the Council of State and the Progress Party, which has repeatedly claimed that an increase in the number of quota refugees is to be seen as an invitation to come to Norway, now tens of thousands of refugees are invited to come to Norway in 2018, as a result of the fact that the Progress Party on the Stortinget has a 100 p.m. increase in the number of quota refugees for 2018 – more than what the Council of State and the Government have said is justifiable. Is it for this reason that the Council of State is so committed to maintaining the command authority vis-à-vis UNE?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e341	In terms of signals, we have seen countries where politicians have been calling for liberal signals, whether it was Germany or Sweden – or Finland, which by 2015 had hardly had asylum seekers, but which suddenly received more than 30,000. Norway also received a lot in 2015. What I've been referring to is actually what was said to our police at the border, that they felt invited to Norway because you had to accept so and so many asylum seekers. With regard to 2018, the situation is that we are going to accept 1 000 fewer asylum seekers compared to the year’s quota. To the extent that it is a signal, the signal is that we accept less, and is seen as a signal of tightening rather than liberalisation. It was not intended to continue the instruction authority towards UNE. It was simply to be prepared if we experienced an increase in the future. The picture is very inconclusive, and we don't know what we're going to meet there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e348	In the proposition, the Council of State indicates that the main argument against UNE instructional authority is that this is not considered to be compatible with an independent system of denominators and that the population is likely to have the greatest confidence in the proper conduct of individual proceedings if the Board of Appeal is independent of changing governments. These considerations should ‘however not be decisive in the current situation’, is further stated by the Ministry, and refers to the ‘needs for policy management of practices’ also in the case of review procedures. UNE is subject to laws, regulations and administrative provisions, and the Council of State may at any time initiate amendments to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions, which will then be applied when UNE carries out its proceedings. Why does the Council of State consider it so important in a normal situation to be able to intervene directly against UNE, which was established as an independent and judicial body in order to ensure the safe and predictable handling of complaints of foreign affairs? Is the Council of State in agreement with me that if an emergency situation arises, the Storting may, in a few days' notice, reintroduce that instruction authority, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e355	The decision may be taken at any time. What happened in 2015 was a lot of criticism, because it went very fast. But it was an example that the Stortinget – and also the government – can turn around and investigate new law paragraphs when you are in such a situation. In any case, I would say that the most important thing and best thing is that you are prepared, and that you have in advance the tools you need when you first find yourself in a situation. And that makes it possible to do things faster. In this proposition, the Government has also underlined that changes to UNE should preferably be made by law and regulation, but that there may be situations where instructional authority would be preferable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e364	First, I can reassure the Council of State that if there's a desire to improve the situation of converts, I know that there's a majority here in the Chamber for that, along with the government, so we can sort that out by law and regulation. You don't need an instructional authority to put that in place. The second is these so-called Storskog instructions that were given. Both the police, the UDI and the Foreign Affairs Department were very critical and encouraged the Department to remove them, because they saw that they were not usable. And in April 2016, the department turned around in matters about asylum seekers with a one-off visa. For people with multiple travel visas and residence permits who had expired, they turned around in November, and now they have turned around for the very last one. That means that a lot of time and resources have been spent instead of dealing with these matters in a normal way from the very beginning. Does the Council of State consider these instructions to have been effective and appropriate resource use in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e373	The most important thing we have achieved is to have control of the influx to Norway. We did that, and it was absolutely vital that we did it. With regard to the Storskog situation, changes were made with the instructions along the way, when it was found that it was difficult to return to Russia. We have also returned to Russia, and we have returned to a number of other countries. So in total, more than 900 of those who came over the Great Forest have been returned, either to Russia or to other countries. With regard to the instructions that have been used, I believe it has been the right way to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e382	The increase in the number of asylum seekers across Storskog was an important backbone of the changes in the law that are becoming permanent today. Most were referred to as groundless, and the ambitions to return these groundless asylum seekers to Russia were great. A large number of buses were set up to carry them back. The Council of State has partially answered my question, but I am very curious about how many of those who came in 2015, who stayed in Norway. Governments have replied that 900 were sent back to Russia or other countries, but that means that a reasonable number of people stayed, and that they might not be groundless.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e387	That's about. 1 150 people who have received protection in Norway. Some have also disappeared. Some probably went back to their original homeland on a voluntary basis. We saw in reports that people who had applied for asylum in Norway had traveled from apartments in other countries. They had jobs there, they had the opportunity to live their lives there safely and well, but still chose to come to Norway and seek asylum. So there's probably different stories behind the numbers that we have here. I believe that it is now important to think in the future. We're in a situation where we know Africa is going to grow with almost half a billion people by 2030. We see a situation in the Middle East that is relatively inconspicuous, and where things happen every day that makes us have to follow up on this. We see that there are many countries in the world where there are concerns. This means that we need to be prepared for things to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e395	The representative, Karin Andersen, was in the topic of “Converters”, and I want to pursue that a little bit. I record that one of the reasons why the right of instruction is sought is asylum seekers who have converted. I'm very pleased that we can share a common commitment to converts, but I'm wondering if one claims that the position of the converts is getting worse if we take away the authority of instruction. Does the Council of State consider that a person cannot strengthen the rights of the converts by regulation or law, and will the Council of State take the initiative to submit such a proposal to the Stortinget? I can guarantee support from the Christian People's Party if it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e402	The size can decide what the Storing will, as long as it is within the current conventions and the rules of the game that Norway has told us to follow. In the case of the conversions and whether there are going to be legislative changes or regulatory changes for them in the future, we have to get back to it. But the instruction given to UNE was given as a result of an agreement that the government had with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the previous period. The instructions given will not be binding on UNE.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e409	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e416	We all agree that we must fight against coercion. We have to ask ourselves what are the right tools. In settings where social control is important, girls have greater freedom before puberty than after. In fact, girls can experience that the social pressure is increasing the older they get. Then it is important to have a six-year requirement, rather than a 24-year limit. With today's legislation, you can experience working or being in education until you're 22 years old. Then you can get the coercion and have to stay abroad until you're 24 years old. We're against that. The Ministry now points out that an extension of six years is not appropriate as a means of combating coercion. A little funny is the justification from the ministry, that the six-year requirement is more administratively demanding to check out. That check-out takes place for the existing four-year requirement. Participation in the labour market will enable you to support yourself and your family. That's why getting more people to work is so important to the Workers' Party. However, working conditions must be checked. Many are exposed to social dumping and the problem is increasing. We assume that Listhaug will follow up on the use of asylum seekers in the labour market. It's not just about your own income, it's about integration. Employment and education make it easier to learn Norwegian and get a network. If you are Norwegian, it is easier to take an active part in your own everyday life, whether it is about leisure time or the working day itself. If you have your own income and a network outside the family, it is easier to break out if you are subjected to social pressure. It's the girls and the boys who are under social pressure and coercion that we're worried about. We therefore propose that we have a six-year requirement. Being subjected to social pressure related to marriage or anything else has nothing to do with age. Yes, age can almost make it worse. If you're 30 years old and you're still single, the social pressure can actually increase. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that a six-year requirement is more accurate, both for the sake of integration and for the fight against forced marriage, no matter how old it is when the pressure is put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e425	Some comments on the debate so far: it is claimed by several teams that UNE must be excluded from political governance. It's a misunderstanding. Of course, you control the foreign language subject, you can do that through laws and regulations. Instructions are only a tool that takes less time. They are not hearings, which, of course, are not laws and regulations. So we're talking here about pace. But it is a misunderstanding that the foreign field has been undermined by political governance. It's probably a field that's very politically ruled, and that's a consensus among most people. So to the Labour Party representative, who was very concerned with the defeat of Listhaug in the policy of asylum. Then I think, is it more important than actually to adopt a policy that we know works? I want to warn you that you almost get the 'complex listhaug' instead of looking at what works. We have to have some tools to respond with. We can probably discuss for a very long time what happened before 2015, but at least we had no laws and regulations on the table that made it possible to get started and actually do something about the situation around the big arrivals. So you could say, well, what did these tools do, they had any effect? I believe that the signal effect should not be underestimated, because you are very sensitive – especially those who work with flutes – to signals from national authorities. I remember Angela Merkel saying in a TV talk that migrants were wanted to be welcomed to Germany. In three months, 800,000 came, and they had to sit down and deal with them urgently — there too — with new laws and regulations. The country was cracking in the seams. Consultation bodies were also mentioned which are against instructions and restrictions. I would also like to point out that the police authorities are positive, and the foreign agency in the police is in the middle of this – and not behind a desk. Finally, I would like to say that, on the one hand, there is criticism from SV about emergency treatment, while it is very easy to deal with urgent matters that SV agrees with – then it is very easy to do so. But if you don't agree, you shouldn't. I guess that's a little bit contradictory.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e438	As is often the case in the foreign field, this debate also uses strong and strong words to characterise opponents of opinion. At the same time, there is a broad consensus in Stortinget about the main features of the foreign field. You have some disagreements. What goes on again is that both in 2015 and in the subsequent debate after the large influx of asylum, but also today, there is broad support for the main features of the foreign field. There is evidence that the tradition we have in Norway to reach agreement, continues to live, and that the parties are willing to take responsibility. What is also quite clear in this debate is that the Right has completely abdicated in the foreign field and left the whole field to the Progress Party. It is something new, all the time that the Right for many years has been concerned about ensuring predictability in the foreign field, but also a system that stands internationally, in view of our commitments. What is also obvious is that, under the great arrival of asylum, duly mentioned by this pulpit, the government was totally unprepared for the situation. As Karin Andersen correctly describes, the opposition wanted measures, the government put forward a government budget with cuts, and so much of the influx could have been avoided if the government had reacted in time. It did not, and there we stood when we had to make an asylum settlement. Many of the measures that came into the agreement are measures that the Progress Party has long wanted and that have now been clearly implemented to continue. We believe that when the situation is as it is today, you should withdraw the instruction authority from UNE. It's because we don't want more political governance of a body that's supposed to be a court-like body. And then you could ask, who's the angle here? As regards the six-year requirement, the Progress Party and the Right voted in favour of it in the previous round, but now they vote against it. In addition, they retain the four-year requirement of the Foreign Affairs Act and clearly argue that it is accurate, but when one argues in the debate here to extend by two years, it is not very accurate. There is evidence that the rhetoric of the Progress Party is not very thoughtful. I will return to the 24-year requirement in a later post, where I believe that the Central Party and SV should vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e453	There are twisted comments from the Progress Party and the Right on the criticism that was presented, on how they were unable to deal with the refugee crisis in 2015 – in part 2016. That criticism stands today. The government did not react quickly enough. You saw what was happening, you didn't take it seriously. The thing that saved the situation in 2015 was volunteering, and it was the municipalities that set up and made sure that things got in place pretty much. There were people in the streets a few quarters away without food and without shelter. It was without control. That was the criticism, and that criticism stands out very well today, considering how the government failed in its implementation. Then I register that the Progress Party believes that the 24-year requirement is the most important tool against coercion. It's one of several tools. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party is so firm that this is absolutely the only thing that you have – it's not right. There is a set of tools that need to be installed. And then we agree that this kind of requirement is important, but then it would make sense to vote in favour of our proposal, which can actually be interpreted more strongly than a common 24-year requirement. So to the representative Örmen Johnsen, who clearly believes that the authorising authority would have saved the situation in 2015. How, then, do you reason around the world? Would the UNE have stopped the refugees coming up across Europe and into Norway? Does the representative Ørmen Johnsen really think that this is what would be the medicine to stop what we saw in 2015? It's such a thin explanation that you can almost not believe what you hear – but it's a try, of course. Unfortunately, the right no longer has its own opinion on asylum policy. They have laid their ground for the Progress Party, and they indulge in obedient logging when the Progress Party believes something in asylum and immigration policy. It's sad to register, but that's what reality has become.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e462	First, we are going to vote in favour of the first proposal by the Labour Party, which is to repeal the 24-year rule. I've been working on issues of coercion for many, many years now, and it's not about age, education or work – unfortunately. If I had believed in these suggestions, I would have voted for them all, but this is just -- to say it like that -- throwing blues in people's eyes. To remove this rule I think will be the best we can do. I have searched several times in the proposition and in the government's work on this. Not once can I find references to the Vienna Convention. That is what Norway has committed itself to, how we are to interpret the right of refugees. It is serious that Norway is involved in putting pressure on the UN interpretations of these international conventions. It's taken us 100 years and two world wars to build this small, weak network to protect refugees in acute, difficult situations, and you don't even refer to it, but in the hearings the United Nations comes and says this is a breach. I register that you almost just accept it and think it's okay. If we didn't have an instructional authority in 2015: we had laws, and that's who we now have to use. The instructions given were not applicable, said the police. It created a lot of looting and bookkeeping and work and heavy costs not to start handling the applications properly at once. The government had probably not instructed UNE or UDI about anything when they didn't even have a budget that took account of it all the others saw. It was Stortinget that had to have a case for treatment in order for something to happen in Storskog. I think the Workers' Party has good posts now, but unfortunately they were involved in this panic. They got to tear down and agreed to these changes, which have not been shown to be practicable. For that matter of urgency: sometimes you have to, but the matter that the government put forward, Prop. 16 L for 2015-2016, and for which we were not allowed to have hearings or committee hearings, was not a temporary legislative amendment. It was the Stortinget who decided that there would be a temporary change in the law, after the treatment here in the hall. It made the government appear as a permanent change, which they wanted all the time. It is quite serious, because this is a very difficult jus, and, as many have said, in the utmost consequence, it can be about life and death.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e475	I want to start by just informing you that in the case of granted permits, the number I mentioned was the one that was granted by the UDI. In addition, there are some concessions from UNE, so it's between 1600 and 2,000. It's complicated to pick up these numbers, so in that case we'll have to do it afterwards. I am committed to saying that it is something special if the asylum policy is to be about those who are signed, if that is what is most important. This must be about our country. It has to be that we're going to succeed in integrating, and then how many people are going, how many people are going to get permission, to say a lot. Next year, we will have over 20,000 people entering the Norwegian labour market. It's going to be extremely demanding to get all these people to work. It should be about how to ensure the sustainability of our welfare model for future generations, how Norway will be in the future. It must be the most important thing. So to the 24-year requirement. I disagree with Andersen, because I think when you're 24 years old, it's easier to resist the family than if you're 18. One has become more mature, more independent and has the opportunity to resist another way. At the same time, I would say that the proposal put on the table here by the Workers' Party will simply put this work in reverse. As long as it does not apply to Norwegian citizens, there will be a large group of these young people in this difficult situation, as the representative Bøhler meets in Groruddalen. Many of them are Norwegian citizens. I would also like to add that when the red-green government promoted the proposition that led to the four-year requirement, an explicit statement was made that the purpose of the proposal was not to combat coercion. I would also like to say that there are still allegations from Andersen's representative that we are presenting cases to the Stortinget that are not in line with international conventions. For us, it is absolutely essential that what we are proposing is within the conventions to which Norway has acceded. So it's that the space of action within these conventions is larger than what we used earlier. It was one of the things that the Storting was concerned about, that we were going to take advantage of the possibilities that lay there, to tighten up more within the conventions that exist. The government has responded to this to the Stortinget. The size has adopted adjustments. I believe that in the time we live in now, this procedure and the decisions that have been taken are absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e488	This debate shows, as is often the case before, that several representatives of the United Kingdom have serious problems distinguishing what is being debated. It is mixed up to have a rough treatment for refugees who are in a difficult situation and who are in need, and to have a strict treatment for groundless asylum seekers. When the representative, Andersen, talks about having a raw treatment and taking care of people in distress, that is not what this debate is about. The constraints we are now discussing are to prevent people from coming to and staying in Norway without any need. So those arguments get a little bit thin. A human asylum and immigration policy is about providing good opportunities to those in need. For example, this is a case in point. to reduce the waiting time in reception. When the red-greens put in government, they had huge problems in providing such a humane treatment as we have introduced in retrospect. That's what I put in the humane and good treatment of refugees. But then we have to distinguish it from giving a strict and consistent treatment to those who have no reason to seek asylum in Norway. When it is claimed that the measures have had no effect and that the Party of Progress has wanted to introduce this for a long time and has now finally achieved it, the latter is quite correct. But if the Advance Party got it in earlier, you could get a better effect. It was too late because the Storting did not want to introduce these restrictions earlier. The Labour Party says that the current 24-year limitation system for compulsory marriages can lead to coercion abroad and must stay there until you are 24 years old. It's completely wrong. For it is already a four-year requirement for those who want to start up a family. In fact, without applying the six-year requirement to Norwegian nationals, it would be free from forced marriages for young Norwegian nationals with a foreign background. That's what we're trying to prevent. The Workers' Party is going in the wrong direction, and there is a lot of evidence that they have unfortunately been persuaded by lobbyists and activists who have a greater interest in continuing forced marriage than in protecting the young. The representative of Grande says that the Right has abdicated, and that we have lost the predictability of the asylum and immigration debate. So you can take it wrong. The biggest examples we have seen of the wings in the asylum debate for a very long time come from the Workers' Party itself, who are unable to pursue a consistent policy because they have a greater interest in defeating the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e501	The debate starts gradually to focus on who said what, and perhaps not so much on what we are really going to discuss, which is how we are going to get into a fair foreign policy that is strict, and to which the majority of the Storing can join. We're actually getting that today. I would like to make a comment that the criticism that SV and the Workers' Party joined in 2015 does not seem to me to be entirely a believer. Because then, in Stortinget – I put myself and listened to it here in the hall – there were many concrete suggestions on how this was to be done. But I find that rhetoric and political fines are perhaps more fun than real politics. I said, and I don't think the representative of the Workers' Party heard well enough after that, that in the case of a country's tightening-up measures, and in particular the government's ability to give instructions, these are political signals that are picked up very quickly by traffickers and by those who help both migrants and asylum seekers around Europe. It's kind of naive to think it's not happening. I then recommend taking a trip to Germany. They had to take a hard turn just because the signals were ‘welcome to us’. There were 800,000 in a short time. The right is the mountainside of immigration policy. We're not waving. We believe that we are doing what is best for the country, what should safeguard our welfare systems, and what should not least prevent us from getting a flow of asylum seekers who are not entitled to stay. We stand high on the fact that it was Right, under then municipal minister Erna Solberg, who promoted the law on the introduction system, who promoted the law on the right and duty of Norwegian training, and who initiated measures to get asylum seekers to work. This proposition also deals with that. We have not spent time in the debate today, but it is incredibly important that those who sit in the asylum recipients waiting for their applications to be dealt with have something meaningful to do. That's why they're getting to work. It's going to be the big challenge for society as a whole: to integrate the close to 100,000 now to all our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e513	I think the debate confirms the impression that we know is left from the time of large asylum arrivals, namely that the government was on the heels, came too late on the track, and that the Stortinget then had to make a big deal to deal with the situation. What justified some changes was, of course, the crisis awareness that eventually also sank over the Progress Party and the government, but the assumption was, of course, that there were temporary measures. Now we have the opportunity to discuss: what is this going to continue, and what is going to be withdrawn? It's quite normal to do – and have disagreements about it. More dramatic is not exactly that. The second thing that has been confirmed after this debate is that the Right has no opinion whatsoever on its own behalf in the foreign field. The whole field is left to the Progress Party, and we'll just have to take note of that. Then I said that I would come back to the question related to the 24-year requirement. This requirement is, of course, a requirement which has emerged as an immigration regulatory measure. When introduced in Denmark, there were particularly two effects. One was that those who were at risk of being coerced were still, but they were exported to their parents’ country of origin and had to live there in forced marriage until the 24th anniversary – no effect when it came to coercion, but a much worse situation for them. The second effect was that the concept of ‘love refugees’ arose, namely couples who married voluntarily but who did not meet the 24-year requirement, among others, and who moved to Sweden in large numbers and lived there until the 24-year requirement was met. So it's a passive age requirement without anything about work against coercion, it's just an immigration regulatory measure. I think you can be honest that this is why you want the 24-year limit. That's also why the red-green government said this was not its model. We agreed to a job or education requirement for a certain period of time. It has subsequently received general acceptance and therefore the four-year requirement has been proposed further. The Progress Party also strongly argues that it should be continued and that it may help to ensure that the 24-year requirement has a certain legitimacy. Now we're proposing to expand it by two years. The Progress Party is often involved in the foreign field, but in this area the Advance Party is much more liberal than the Workers' Party. I am pleased that Karin Andersen is now signaling that SV is voting for the Workers' Party's proposal to lift the 24-year limit. I also encourage the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to join in. I understand that there is more to support the six-year requirement, because it is a significant tightening, and it is sad that the Progress Party does not see.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e528	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e533	First, I can reassure both Listhaug and the Progress Party: this matter is not at all about them. It is not about a red and liberal asylum policy either. It is about whether we should fulfil our obligations and not risk sending someone back to a place, either via a third country or directly, where life is at risk or they are at risk of political persecution. That's what this case is about, and that's what SV is concerned about protecting. So to the interpretation, where Listhaug was up and saying, and it also says in the proposition, that no matter what you do, you assure yourself that this is in line with our international commitments. But then I can tell you that in the hearings the UN and UNICEF are present and say that it is not. Norway has committed itself to the interpretation on the basis of which the Vienna Convention is based. I record this interpretation that neither the government nor the bulk of the population care about, and that is worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e540	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e545	The criticism of the government in 2015 is not a believer, repeats the representative Örmen Johnsen, and she even throws forward that the rhetoric was more important to us than politics. It's in that case the Right rhetoric now that is not in any way near being a believer. It's kind of strange to hear what's being said on the right hand side about this. In addition, when we hear that the Right is on the verge of asylum policy, I may be able to give Right in it. The problem is that they are on the verge of asylum policy under the terms of the Progress Party. There's no longer any doubt about it. Unfortunately, the right has abdicated to the government party the Progress Party in asylum and immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e550	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e555	It is probably better to stand together together, as the Right Party and the Advance Party, than to wing around from side to side in a matter as important as immigration policy is. With regard to the 24-year requirement, there could have been a reduction of six-year job or education requirements if it were applicable to all, including Norwegian citizens. The problem with the Labour Party's proposal is that Norwegian citizens should be excluded, i.e. that very many young Norwegian citizens with a foreign background no longer have protection. That's why it's a great decoration from the Workers' Party. It may be that the Labour Party has misunderstood its own proposal, or has allowed itself to be persuaded by activists who have other agendas in this matter, but that this is an embellishment, there can be no doubt about it. Since we have a four-year requirement today, this is the best way to do it: the two in a combination.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e564	For a central party, it is a bit strange to hear this debate, about who took responsibility and did not take responsibility in 2015. The government did nothing, it was the Center Party that had to take responsibility, take the initiative that something actually happened, to take care of the situation that was at Storskog. It was the community, it was the municipality that happened to be at the border station, which took responsibility in 2015. The government put its hands in jail. The centre party had to initiate a wide-ranging conciliation on the Stortinget, an initiative to actually do something. It didn't seem that the government had at all intended to take responsibility – they realized that the local people up there and the municipality who were stuck with this was going to take responsibility, and then we were going to sit here in Oslo and see how long this went well. In retrospect, we see that they have even written off the financial responsibility for all the expenses that the municipality had. So that debate can just kill you. It was the Center Party that had to take that responsibility. Nothing happened from the government until we actually made sure that this debate came to the table centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e571	I think it's a rather strange debate. There are many people here who have taken responsibility for it being gone in the well-being. What's good at least is that you managed to solve the situation that was in 2015. It's very special to sit and listen to you talk about putting your hands in jail and not doing anything. There was an enormous amount of work to solve these challenges, and no matter who had been sitting with them in captivity, I think they would experience the exact same thing. Having arrivals of as many people every day as you had during that fall would put everyone to the test. I've met some of the people who work out of the system, and who helped to get shelter for those who came, helped to get food, helped to stand on the border, policemen who were supposed to handle the situation. What I can say is that they made a phenomenal effort. They worked day and night to deal with the situation on behalf of all of us. I think they deserve a thank you, for what I hear indirectly here, is also a criticism of those who stood on. It was demanding. I spoke to a UDI representative up north. So many people came that they had to send buses south and find out where to accommodate them. That's the situation. I think it's a little helpful to stand and say things like that when I know what efforts were made, both there and among employees in the department, who worked day and night. I think they deserve recognition for that, not this kind of characteristic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e586	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded From the Workers' Party's Group, there is an application for a permit granted by the representative Svein Roald Hansen from 8 December to 13 December to be changed to apply from today, Thursday 7 December, until 13 December. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternate is called to meet during the leave period: For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e612	Siv Henriette Jacobsen is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e628	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e644	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given for the replacement of a sequence of up to five lines with replies from the parties' principal figures and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e655	First, I must be allowed to thank the Committee for good cooperation and, of course, to extend special thanks to our good cooperation party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. So far we can say that the local reform has been a success. So far in the reform, 156 municipalities have agreed that they would like to merge. The reform continued in good cooperation between the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party. There are several municipalities under discussion. The decision of the Storting on 8 June meant that 121 municipalities would merge into 47 new municipalities through the municipal reform, and would gather approximately. A third of the inhabitants of the country lived in a new municipality. As we are discussing today, 31 municipalities, which did not have a positive decision on the new solution adopted by the Stortinget on 8 June of this year, will be able to try to revise the decisions on the municipal convergence. It may seem that politicians' desire to give municipalities greater responsibilities and more tasks over time has been greater than possible and the willingness to equip the municipalities for these tasks. Nevertheless, when I see what the upsurge of this reversal proposal we are dealing with today, actually getting, it is good to see that there are only marginal changes in relation to what the Storting decided in June. And if this reversal proposal had been given multiple numbers and 31 municipalities could seek to have the decision on municipal convergence reversed, it would have created unnecessary frustration, unnecessary costs, unnecessary bureaucracy and unnecessary insecurity for very many. Many municipalities have started the processes well, and the conversion proposals would clearly turn out very unfortunate for many if they had been agreed. After all, there was no big attendance at the hearing on this matter either. Only two municipalities have quieted down. Nor was there any major insurrection for the conversion of the Storting decision of 8 June. On the contrary, it is rather afraid that the Stortinge would reverse the decision of 8 June. Nevertheless, in the examination of this document 8 proposal from the Center Party, the Christian People's Party points to especially two combinations that they think there is reason to consider once more. It's the merger of Leka, Bindal, Vakna and Nærøy and the merger of Forsand and Sandnes. The County of Nord-Trøndelag recommended a large municipality consisting of Leka, Nærøy and Vikna and all or part of Bindal, although there was no positive decision on this in Leka and Bindal. The majority followed this council from Fylkesmann when Stortinget took a decision on the changes in municipal structures on 8 June 2017. Today's reversing applies only to the municipalities of Leka and Bindal, both of which have decided to continue as their own municipalities. Right still means it's unfortunate that Leka, with its 584 inhabitants, and Bindal, with its 1473 inhabitants, is not part of a larger and stronger municipality now. These two municipalities are the municipalities of Norway, which have the lowest proportion of pre-employment residents compared to residents over 67 years of age. The projections show that by 2030 there will be 1.4 people in the pre-employment period for each person over 67 years of age. This is not sustainable in the long term, and we expect them to join us once in the future, for example. Week and Nærøy, which are merged from 1 January 2020. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party suggests that the municipalities of Forsand and Sandne in Rogaland also have the opportunity to make their decision on municipal convergence. This, however, is not the case for multiple numbers. Today, when we take decisions, the municipal reform is largely in line with the decision of the Stortinge in June. Now it's important that we look forward. Time for fights must be all over. It is important that local, local and regional politicians now have the freedom to carry out the community reform in a good way for the inhabitants. This is an important reform for both communities, citizens and all stakeholders, and it is very important that we look forward to it. So I have to give a little explanation of vote on the tap. First of all, Right wants the Stortinget's decision of 8 June to stand by the law. But when there are now multiples to do something about the Leka and Bindal decisions anyway, the Right will support the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party's proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox This is also mentioned in the comments on the matter, so it is quite clear what we want to vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e689	It opens for line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e694	For a long time – yes, we can actually talk about for years – we have received very clear and strong warnings from the Right Party that there is no need to reverse or touch on the decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the municipal merger debate. In the election campaign there were also loud warnings that the reversal of such decisions had to be largely ignored. Then you wanted to destroy, and you wanted to make the whole reform work difficult. Today, the Right vote to break up a coercion, which they have strongly warned against for a long time. What is it that makes the Right now sees it as necessary for a total envoy – and obviously votes for something Right even for a long time has warned very strongly against?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e701	I did well for why Right wanted Leka and Bindal to be part of a larger municipality, but now it's not multiple for it. Alternatively, if there were multiples for these municipalities to have a chance to reverse their decision and apply for a change, it would have created a great deal of uncertainty for both residents, stakeholders and many others in the whole region up there – including for the other municipalities involved in this municipal merger. It is much better for the Stortinget, the municipalities and all the stakeholders that we make solid decisions so that we do not create uncertainty about the cork reform or the decisions that are made here in the hall. If we were to open up so that a municipality could apply for conversion as it feels too good, it would have created a lot of anxiety, because there are mutual decisions in many municipalities, and there are no mutual decisions. That's why it's important that we stick to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e710	That this was a good explanation – from the pulpit or in answer to the question – I totally disagree. So I think almost have to try again. We have received strong warnings, especially from the representatives of the Right, that this was so important that this had to be completely firm – if not, one would not only make it difficult, we have even heard the expression ‘bringing to ruin’, the whole reform. So I have to try again: why is right now voting for something they themselves have warned so strongly against?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e717	That's about. 1.7 million inhabitants joining a new municipality. The decision we are making today covers approx. 2,000 inhabitants. It's a very marginal change in relation to the warnings we've come with, and in relation to the proposal that's on the table. I can't characterize the proposal that's on the table today, as anything other than a solid stomach patch. So here's one thing that's going to be asked for 31 municipalities to make their decision, and then we're going to go for a solution where 2,000 people get their decision. This is a solid reform. We have given the course further, and the municipalities are doing well. This is a good solution for society, when that's how it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e724	I notice that the 'compulsory comrades' have a note in the settings where they ask the department to assess the repayment of funds received by Bindal and Leka after the decision on coercion with Nærøy and Vikna was taken. So it is obviously going to have to be punished as hard as possible here. As the representative will be familiar with, the department anticipated a great deal of speed in the merger processes, and many will feel that the County took the treatment in Stortinget as a formal matter and started implementing decisions before they were taken here in the house. Bindal and Leka have therefore been incurred in the initial phase due to requirements for rapid implementation processes. Does Trellevik mean, then, that they are not to be compensated for these costs as a result of work started, when the funds that have been paid are repayable? I notice that Trellevik said that the County had proposed such a merger of Bindal in Nordland with the three municipalities in Trøndelag. Is it correct that the representative believes that this was what the County proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e731	There were a lot of questions right here. I'll start with the first. We want these municipalities, of course, not to pay back the money they actually spent on this reform until now. This is a matter we have left to the department to work with. I am absolutely sure that these municipalities – who have worked and had costs with it, and who are now being made about their decision here in Stortinget – will get out of this without having any special consequences for other companies in the municipality, but that we cover the costs they have actually incurred, and perhaps more. When it comes to the question of Nord-Trøndelag, I think that's what I've got with me when it comes to Inner. 386 S for 2016-2017 and Prop. 96 S for 2016-2017, which we consider in June 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e740	The representative, Trellevik, pointed out that there were few municipalities at the hearing. One of the municipalities that was at the hearing was the municipality of Sørum, and at the hearing in ours the majority laid the foundations for their decision on the use of coercion against Skedsmo, Sørum and Fet that it was only Fat that was brave, while both Skedsmo and Sørum wanted to merge. At the rollcall elections, a referendum was held in South Africa, with 70 pst. participation in elections. Almost 60 pst. voted no, and as late as 25 October, the Municipal Council confirmed that it wanted to remain as its own municipality. Does the representative Trellevik agree that the condition that Sørum is a municipality wishing to merge is not present? Why does the representative Trellevik not want Sørum to be able to exist as a municipality of its own, as for example? Bindal and Leka?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e750	Now I don't have the proposition and the setting that we're dealing with this summer, rather than me, but I mean to think that in South Africa there was a desire for a larger municipality in the region there, and that the split is actually not big when it comes to municipal convergence at all. I also believe that there are decisions and community studies on this. It also applies in Bold. There's also a community survey, which shows that 60 pst. This development is desired by the municipality. So I think the decisions that are made there are very good, but this is not a coercion when it comes to Southum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e757	I note that what was supposed initially to be a democratic reform has ended up as a forced reform. I understand that when I hear the representative Trellevik now, who mentions it – if the municipalities were to get this done because they want it – as their own satisfaction. The rest of us call it local democracy, and we want it. That is why we have also made a proposal that we should base good and voluntary processes in the future to have changes in the municipal structure. This is not the Right and Advance Party with it. Does this mean that we can expect many coercive conspiracies also in the future, without local democracy being allowed to be heard, or taking into account what they themselves think is sustainable development for their municipality or region?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e764	The volunteer line was grounded, it's grounded, and she's been following us very strongly. When I used the word I did, it was to illustrate that the County Council's understanding of the challenges to the municipalities and the County Council's recommendations has weighed a lot in the process here. The population is the first to know the challenges facing many municipalities, which follow expectations from government, the Stortinget and other governmental authorities to the production of services by municipalities – even when municipalities are investing widely and in a way that fails in depth. I myself have our spokesmen and had a municipality that has been ambitious on behalf of its inhabitants, but where we have received corrections from the State because we may not have used it in some disciplines in relation to the state's expectations. Therefore, I and Right listen to the County Council's recommendations. We want the residents to have the services that the Size and Government set up – and not that a random user wants to use and wager in a very large number of other areas – which is something that the inhabitants are also interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e773	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e778	It's out in the municipalities that people live and live their lives, that's where local democracy is both practiced and designed, by both citizens and elected people – people with a great heart for their communities and the tasks and challenges that are to be solved daily together. There are well-being offers here that good kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly are developed and operated, by competent employees with care and care for both small and large. It's here that all the thousands of volunteers in sports, culture and outdoors are engaged through teams and associations, to contribute to the good housing and growing-up environment. So how are we going to best stimulate good engagement? It's about taking local democracy seriously, so it doesn't confuse, but it thrives. For this reason, the Workers' Party has established throughout the process that the aggregation of both municipalities and counties should be based on volunteering. We have supported voluntary community mergers that have been adopted and started, and we respect what is achieved in the individual municipalities and counties. We will stress the importance of a good municipal economy in all the municipalities of the country, including those who choose not to merge – and not just in those being merged. We prioritise more money for kindergartens, schools and elderly care in the municipalities in our budget for 2018. The Labour Party is concerned that all citizens throughout the country should have a good service offer, and if the municipal boundaries prevent this, we believe that the borders need to be changed. That is why many of our rapporteurs have worked actively on the reform of the municipality, because the services are more important than the municipal borders. I'm from Orkdal, South Trondelag. Here, there are four municipalities, Agdenes, Meldal, Snillfjord and Orkdal, who are joining forces to become the new Orkland municipality. Snillfjord also divides into three municipalities. Some go to Hitra, and some go to Aure, Halsa and Hemne, who become the new home municipality. It is a process that has gone very well, and which is currently run by municipalities run by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and a community list. Although the organisation of municipalities is important, it is more important that municipalities have enough money to provide good services to their citizens. Regardless of the reform, the Workers' Party will strengthen Norwegian small municipalities and large municipalities and provide more money for kindergarten, school and care for the elderly. Many of the rapporteurs of the Labour Party are, and have been, positive drivers for merging municipalities. At the same time, we believe that community mergers should be voluntary. That is why we underlined this in our remarks in connection with the treatment of Inner. 386 S for 2016-2017, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, because we believe that volunteering will give the best result. The coercion of municipalities violates the principle and starting point of the reform, namely that it should be based on voluntary activity. We note that after the elections this fall, the Stortinget is so complex that parties, including the Christian People's Party, who opposed proposals for coercion of municipalities, now have a majority here in the Chamber. If the same parties maintain their positions from 8 June 2017, we will have a majority in order for the coercive municipalities to have the merger decisions lifted. The Labour Party is also strongly opposed to the financial punishment of municipalities that do not merge. We are also opposed to reimbursement of expenditure incurred in the merger process, as the majority of the Committee asks the government to consider. The Labour Party will also stress that the income system of municipalities will contribute to the provision of equivalent services and development opportunities to both small and large municipalities throughout the country, irrespective of geographical location. The Labour Party, together with several parties on the Stortinget, was very critical that the government implemented changes in the municipal income system and thus changed the rules of the process – changes that have complicated the income system, and that in turn have forced the government to put in place its own schemes for poor-performing municipalities. As an example, I will mention the inner Fosen, i.e. Rissa and Leksvik municipalities, which will reduce their framework grant as a result of changes in the zone criteria giving a huge impact on the new municipality. Here neither the government nor the county have helped to inform the municipalities about this outcome and its negative consequences. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the minority's proposal on page 6 of the vote, where the Labour Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, is promoting ten proposals, the proposals No. 1-10, and I would like to address these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e801	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has drawn up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e808	The Labour Party had municipal reform on its party program in both 2005, 2009 and 2013, but during the eight years that the Workers' Party put in government, not so many municipalities were merged – maybe zero, if I remember correctly. Now this government has succeeded. Voluntaryness has been the largest engine in this, but we have clearly said that if one municipality closes for good solutions, you have to use coercion, and it has been done in 11 of 121 municipalities. But you don't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that in the future we'll have a shortage of skills, and we'll have questions about the quality of what's given to the people is good enough. My question goes to the Workers' Party. Can't they see that? Are you so concerned about borders that were drawn so many years ago, and can't you see that you can get good solutions, even if you sometimes have to use coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e817	In Kommune-Norge, e.g. in new Orkland municipality, those who are currently working in kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly in Meldal, Agdenes, Snillfjord and Orkdal – well-qualified workers, who do a good job for all their inhabitants and all those who need help – will be the same people who will work in the same services after the merger has taken effect. They neither become poorer nor better help nurses, nurses, kindergarten teachers, nor teachers of having to work in a larger municipality. However, larger regions and larger municipalities can help make better use of resources. That's why we've been a very strong driver for a voluntary community merger, not a coercion, which leads to a negative arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e822	Yes, but in these years, this kind of relaxed volunteering didn't help. There needs to be more drag behind reforms. I will again challenge the Workers' Party, which has a long tradition of governance. In the positions of the Schei Committee and in 1964 there was no mention of volunteering. Then you did what was right and changed structures. So once again, was the Workers' Party so afraid of losing voters to the Center Party that you started to withdraw from this reform, and are you more concerned about keeping old structures? Will the Workers' Party be involved in the development of Kommune-Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e829	The Labour Party has said – both through several national meetings and in the context of the treatment of this process – that we want a community reform. We're positive about it, but it's going to be based on volunteering, it's going to be continuous. Joining two or three municipalities that disagree on working together does not lead to anything good. We want a good development of Kommune-Norge, and that is why we have also contributed – and we also proposed in the State budget debate – to strengthen the local economy, so that both kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly can become better where people live and live their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e836	The Central Party and the Workers' Party are united on most of the decisions in this case, but we're separating layers on one point, and that's for the Forward and the Sandnes. The decision in June defines forwarding and Sandnes as a voluntary pooling, but it was quite clear at the hearing in the committee that this is a coercion. The rapporteur has refused to take a new decision. This is contrary to municipal law, which the State has also pointed out, so this is actually a coercion. That decision was also taken in breach of the County Council's recommendation. These are two municipalities that do not have a common border, and the County of County has strongly dissuaded the municipal merger that was adopted. That is why I have to ask: why would the Labour Party not be involved in the lifting of this coercion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e844	We have registered the disagreement that has arisen after the Stortinget reached its decision on 8 June this year, but the Labour Party has said that we are in favour of the decisions that we have been making all along. When we reached the decision, this was a voluntary merger, for both the Consignment and the Sandnes, and we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e849	The challenge was that it would not have been a voluntary decision if the local government had made the decision that the local government wanted to make in June. The challenge is that the Stortinget took a decision here on a failed basis, because the rapporteur did not comply with the municipal law when it came to taking that decision at the June meeting. Can not the Workers' Party then consider repealing this coercive decision as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e854	We note that the rapporteur, who comes from the Right, has refused to raise this issue and that the County has now accepted what the rapporteur has done. It was also well expressed during the hearing. But the Workers' Party has a fundamental view that we are on the decision of 8 June, because then there was a voluntary merger of the two municipalities. That is what underlies our decision and also our proposal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e859	The representative of Asphjell is from Tøndelag, and there is, as far as I know, a saying that Tøndelag extends from Rindal to Bindal. Now the representative had a good opportunity to get at least Bindal to Trøndelag, but that's not going to happen. The question for the representative is: why is it so important that Bindal belongs to Nordland?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e866	From Rindal to Bindal is a good expression, not least in connection with the application for the World Cup on skis. Rindal has applied to move from More and Romesdal to Trøndelag. Hopefully that application will go through. In Rindal they participate in everything that is going on in Trøndelag today: in organisational life, in working life and in governments. But as far as Bindal is concerned, the County has said that they do not recommend that they go to Trondelag, but that they should still be part of Nordland. This is not a voluntary merger, and that is why we are on the basis of the decision we made on 8 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e873	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e878	On 8 June, a number of hours of debate was held in this Chamber on the future of the municipality map in Norway. With only minor corrections in the last 50 years, today's Norway has shown us that we need bigger municipalities, and we need to spend our resources on the important things. This has been seen by the municipalities themselves, and the debate on community mergers has been taking place at local level for many years. The premises agreed by the majority on the Stortinget during the treatment of the municipal reform were followed when the Stortinget adopted these mergers. There are very demanding processes to be carried out when municipalities are going to merge, and on behalf of these municipalities I regret that some parties have created uncertainty and have put some of the work on track waiting by proposing to reverse several of the decisions taken in June. I hope that, after the decision today, we can look forward and use our resources to provide good services throughout the country. After creating uncertainty about the merger, we are left, according to the setting, with one minor correction, namely the merger of Bindal, Leka, Vikna and Nærøy. The Christian People's Party supports the following proposals: ‘Leka kommune, Bindal kommune, Vikna kommune and Nærøje kommune will not be merged as from 1 January 2020, cf. Decision 828 of 8 June 2017. The county boundary between Trøndelag and Nordland is not adjusted. The municipality of Vikna and the municipality of Nærøy are merged as from 1 January 2020.» The party supporting this subsidiary in order to minimise the damage as far as possible. It is absolutely essential that we now land the case once and for all, so that the processes can continue as planned. It is important that Leka and Bindal are now aware that they will no longer be eligible for grants and that these funds should initially be repaid. In this context, we believe that it is reasonable for Vicna and Nærøy to retain something more than a proportionate share of the grants, as the financial assumptions for them are now being changed. I have received a number of concerns about a possible reversal of the merger between Shipping and Sandnes, and I know that there are many who are happy that this process will continue as planned. I'm a little surprised by the Center Party, the SV and the Workers' Party, which in the last four years has been so concerned with municipal competence in terms of child protection, midwives, psychologists, nutrition physiologists, ergot therapists, logo horses and even music therapists in the municipalities, that they don't realize that small municipalities have a zero chance to have all this expertise. If we don't make sure that the small municipalities merge, we will have even greater differences between our offerings to our inhabitants in the future. If the youth wants to stay in the districts, it will require us to offer full-time jobs and professionally challenging environments. Joining municipalities is not just about spending money on services, rather than unnaturally many local politicians, councillors, mayors, cultural leaders, school managers and care managers – it's about providing professionally good services wherever you live in the country. For me, this is the most important thing. I note that the debate that has been going on in recent years has triggered a lot of neighboring talk, and that the neighbouring talk continues. I get many enquiries from municipalities that are now concerned that they will not have the same favourable arrangements if they are now coming together later, compared to those that were merged in June. It is incredibly positive that more and more people see that the work we have started is important and correct and that more and more people will be on the team. Most municipalities are well prepared for new municipalities. This is a major process of conversion involving many. The Progress Party is committed to securing the services throughout the country, we do not angle, and we are holding agreements. That is why we refer to the debate that took place in June. What we meant then, we still mean. Finally, a few words about the proposal that ‘The government does not ask the Government to continue work on the border change between Ski and Ås’. Here I have received as many requests from those who believe that a border change is absolutely necessary, as those who believe it is not wanted. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is appropriate to see this, but even more important: that the Storting now enters and believes something about a limit, makes the Storing forever and always be required to deal with such limits. The Progress Party does not want the Storting to deal with all goods without an investigation and only based on a number of e-mails that crack in all directions. Such issues will be served with a better type of treatment, and we will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e907	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e912	In the setting, among other things, writes Progress Party: ‘Any transformation of the Storting Decision of 8 June 2017 could have a very adverse impact on the parties, citizens and other actors involved.’ Nevertheless, the Progress Party – despite its own strong warnings – today chooses to provide subsidiary support for the proposal to reverse merger decisions involving Leka and Bindal, in order to ‘minimize the damage’. Most of us could then ask what damage should be minimized. But why is it only in this case the Progress Party is willing to ignore its own warnings, not in other merger cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e922	Politics is about getting the most out of what you want, and when you stand up in a situation where we can get a reversal for four municipalities, or we can get a situation with the reversal of two municipalities, we of course choose what hurts at least. To be passive to make a choice where would have done more damage. Interestingly, Bindal has said that a reversal for them will in fact mean that they now have to cut the service offer. This shows that a reversal is unfortunate for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e929	The party of progress has produced itself as the party of referenda in front of some. Clearly, this is an exception in the area of municipal reform. The party has even gone so far as to say that decisions on municipal mergers are not suitable for referendums. Most municipalities, despite this ban, conducted referendums. Today, we are considering proposals to allow for the conversion of the Stortingen's decision on forced use to coerced municipalities. This applies to municipalities where the people have clearly said no to community reunification in a referendum. But it was not listened to by the great crowd, including the Progress Party – they despite referendums and showed zero respect for them. Is the Progress Party determined by the fact that, in terms of mergers of municipalities, the will of the people is not to be expressed and the referendum is not taken into account? It would have been an important clarification for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e939	The municipal mergers have been mainly voluntary. There have been good processes around the country. The municipalities have chosen their own ways of hearing their citizens, or of discussing and investigating them. We respect that the municipalities have different ways of doing it. We have also seen that in some referendums it has been very difficult for citizens to answer. You haven't been very honest about what you lose by not getting along, so the people are probably sitting around with a very different sense of what this is all about. What has been important to us is that there has been a wish throughout the country, for years, that we must do something to provide good and equal services throughout the country, and we have taken the necessary steps to get going well. That means that when some municipalities go ahead now, there are many others who will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e946	In his post, the representative Kjenaas Kjos said that she was concerned about the small municipalities. I'm really wondering, what are these little municipalities talking about? It is quite right that the County Council has critical points for many municipalities in terms of child protection, psychiatry and all the functions that the representative has outlined in his statement. But it has no connection with the size of the municipality. It is possible that the representative believes that there are the number of people we are talking about. In my state there are no contractions now, and it may well be that the geography is such that if you combine any of these, the home aid has to use helicopter. So I want to clarify what the representative is based on, when she determines that large municipalities are better than small in terms of all of these services she mentions, when the population studies and the County Council study show that there are very different sizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e951	That's the number of people I mean when I say large municipalities. In this room we have debated repeatedly that there are no midwives in municipalities, there are no ergot therapists, there are no psychologists. This is because municipalities with few inhabitants do not have the opportunity to employ all those professionals, and they are unable to employ in 20 pst. positions, which is not what this collapse wants either. It's clear that when you get municipalities that get a lot more people, you can get an employee in all those professionals, and then you get a service offer that's adapted to the world we live today. We have so much more knowledge – among other things. the importance of logos for stroke patients. Having a logoped in each municipality we only manage if we have fewer municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e956	If the municipalities have the ability to hire these professionals, they depend on their existence, and they have the money to hire them. Then the municipal economy is significant, and there the Progress Party will now take some of the income opportunities from the municipalities – it will not be easier of that. The distance in many of these so-called small municipalities is so large and the population is so small that it would be completely impossible to imagine getting that kind of effect out of it, if you don't think of a massive forced centralization. You just have to say to people: no, you have to put down these hospitals that lie here and there, they can't be there, you have to have such a long journey to these municipal services that there's nothing else to do but to move. Is that really the plan of the Progress Party – because it looks like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e963	Now I get the impression that S.B. accepts that those who live widely, and those who live far away, will accept a much worse offer. I don't agree with that premise. I believe we should be able to offer a good offer to everyone throughout the country. So to the community economy and to be able to afford to employ in these professionals: there are two ways we can do it. One is to provide a strong local economy. I am amazed that once this government has provided such a good community economy over its years, which has been much better than the red-green managed to achieve, it still manages to stand and criticize it. What you're actually doing is critically criticizing your own initiative when you were driving. The other one is giving grants, and we've done that. We have put in place a number of grants that make it possible for municipalities to employ in other types of professions that we have so far lacked.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e970	The representative, Kjønaas Kjos, said that the Progress Party would try to minimize the damage, and it was obviously the least possible damage in that the municipalities were allowed to decide for themselves. So she argues very strongly that there's a problem with population in the municipalities. Well, in the state she herself represents, there is a coercion – Fat municipality has over 11,000 inhabitants, Sorum has almost 18,000 inhabitants, and Skedsmo has over 50,000 inhabitants. All three municipalities have said no through referendum. Why should this merger be coerced, while she herself is behind the fact that there should still be 20 municipalities in the country with less than 1 000 inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e977	What we adopted in June was a package, and it was about a lot of things. There were many elements involved when the four parties sat down and negotiated what would be best in this round in relation to the job that has been done in the last couple of years What we thought about this on June 8th, we believe today, because no new arguments have emerged to suggest that that decision was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e982	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e987	Many municipalities have put their trust in Stortinget to support the proposal of the Central Party to re-examine these coercive decisions from 8 June 2017, in particular when the majority, the parties voting against the coercive decisions, have a majority in Stortinget today. In the setting up of the Committee, there is support for only one conversion decision. This concerns Bindal, Leka, Nærøy and Vikna. The vote will be taken later today, so there is still the possibility of supporting the other proposals as well. Many of the representatives have been contacted by local politicians who are aware of the decisions taken in June. Earlier this week, there was a complaint about the proceedings for the municipal reform from Sägne. They believe that the information provided in Stortinget was based on a number of errors in the case. In the hearing, Sørum presented its assessments of the process. They indicated that the merger of Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo took place despite the results of the referendums and despite the decisions taken in the three municipalities. That's how I could still, all around the country. The majority, the representatives of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, are on thin ice when they claim that the Stortinget followed the premises on which the municipal reform was based when the decisions were taken. I think it is necessary to quote what the majority said when the Stortinget adopted the implementation of the municipal reform in 2015: ‘At the same time, the majority are concerned that there should be real voluntary participation of the municipalities involved in merger processes. If, after an overall assessment and having obtained views from its citizens, municipalities conclude that aggregation is not currently relevant, this is a conclusion that the majority considers it necessary to be respected. Derogations from this principle of volunteering may, however, be applicable in very special situations where individual municipalities are not required to stop changes that are appropriate for regional reasons.» It's probably a little bad for a lot of people to hear this quote. The use of coercion is not justified in that note, nor in the comment we find in the setting, where they say that aggregation as a general rule should be based on voluntary activity, but that exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis. What do they say to Søgne and Songdalen, both of whom were in contrast to Kristiansand on these premises? What do they say to Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo, where everyone went against merging? I am happy Christian People's Party supports us in the proposal to give Bindal and Leka the opportunity to continue as their own municipalities. Nevertheless, I am amazed that they do not stick to the voluntary line they laid down at the Grand Prix on 8 June, and that they do not allow all municipalities to get out of the coercion. This does not seem to be a good day for the many municipalities that had hoped the Stortingen would give them the opportunity to reorganise the coercion decisions. On the other hand, it is a very good day for all municipalities that have registered Sanner's threats to the continuation of the municipal reform, where he will have to revise the means he has used so far in the future. A majority premise that the government is now following in its work on municipal reform. Firstly, the majority say that any municipal mergers between 2017 and 2021 should be based solely on voluntary activity. Secondly, the majority say that the income system for municipalities should ensure equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. So we're bombing coercion and bombing to use the income system as it has now been done, where it was the municipal merger and not equivalent welfare services that were the reason for changes in the income system. We park the plans to go further with the municipal reform with the same tools that have been used. Now the government must respect its own conclusions. It is a great victory for the future, but of course a meager consolation for those who get a decision on coercion confirmed by today's treatment. I am happy Christian People's Party participates in the formation of a majority of these proposals, among others. that the income system is not to be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. We all agree to continue the single grant and reform grant schemes to compensate for the costs of community mergers. It is quite another thing to use the income system as a threat to force through aggregations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1016	Will the representative Heidi Greni make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1021	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1027	Then the representative Heidi Greni has drawn up the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1034	The representative mentioned Søgne and Songdalen in his post. I can answer how the people who have reacted to the merger with the municipality of Kristiansand. They voted Right as the largest party in all three municipalities. It shows where they're standing. The centre party has been talking for many years about administrative reform, both at municipal and regional level, and for the last four years it has now been the government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, which is delivering the largest administrative reform in many years. The basis and consequences of that reform are that we strengthen local democracy and move power from state to county and municipality. I want to ask the representative: How does the Central Party feel that it is the government and the Left and Christian People’s Party – and not the Center Party – that is now moving the power closer to the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1041	Now the reply could indicate that the representative is in the next case, but okay, I should reply anyway. This was the case with regional reform, and now we are dealing with the reform of the municipality. What has happened to regional reform is a purely structural change – no new tasks for the county. On the contrary, today's government is calling for a weakening of the county council. Fewer tasks for the county council weaken the regional link. The debate here in the Chamber in spring on the subject of regional reform was quite tangible, because both the Right and the Advance Party said that they had now come halfway down the regional level. So the structural changes that are made to create completely horrific counties in terms of size differences are just to make sure that the regional term is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1050	It's been a long year with a lot of resistance from the Center Party and now a last cramp to show that one is opposed to making changes in the municipal structure. And the little winner is that Leka Municipality gets to keep going. If you look at the map for the municipality of Leka, it is probably just the councillor who has an entire position, while for example. all those working with children and young people and those who are vulnerable are in 30-40 pst. positions. Does the representative, Mr Greni, think that it is a great victory for the small and vulnerable individuals at Leka that one should continue with such marginal resources around him?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1055	Now I have faith that the small and vulnerable individuals at Leka have been so thoroughly involved in this matter that they can actually decide it on a much better basis than both myself and the representative Kjeseth can do. And I think it was closer to 80 pst. there who did not want a community merger. I almost have to ask the representative when he pulls out Leka here as very vulnerable: why is the Left now going to vote for one reversal, which concerns Leka–Bindal, while they are still coercing Sørum–Fet – and many other municipalities around, which are actually going to be 50,000, 60,000, 70,000 inhabitants? It's a very interesting question that I can't see the logic of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1062	There are many interesting questions in this debate. Now, in a short time, after the Stortinget met again after the election, we have had some suggestions where the Center Party is involved in forming a majority for a significant overarching and ringing. This applies, for example: why in Stortinget we must force municipalities by deciding that they should have one hour of physical activity in school every day, or for example. a number of teachers to be a norm in classrooms. What do we really need the municipalities for, if it's so easy to do the job here from Stortinget? It's also one of the big questions that we have, and that we'll probably have to discuss more in the future. In order to allocate resources in the public sector as fairly as possible, we may not need to make all the decisions here in the Storting on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1067	It is possible that something has really gone by my house, but with regard to the teacher's norm, I believe to recall that it is the Left who is inside that budgetary agreement with the government – and not the Center Party. So it actually has to answer for itself. I have to say that a teacher's norm at school, like the Left and the rest of the settlement parties add up to, I think will be centralizing. It will centralize the competence of the big cities, and it will not be good as long as we have too low teacher coverage. Of course, in the area of competence around the small municipalities, it depends on the framework transfers, the income base of the municipalities. That's why the Center Party has arranged for us to have well over 2 billion. to Norwegian municipalities and ensure that they can actually provide equivalent services. And it's not like the average age of Leka is going to be significantly lower because they're coming together with the neighbouring municipalities. Play is where it is, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1078	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1083	The whole community reform would be based on a democratic reform. It would have been nice if it had been, because we need to. We need to enable the municipalities to carry out the tasks they've been given, because they're big and heavy. Then it's about funding the important tasks they have, and we in SV are ready to finance a learning standard – we have done that in our budgets. We're very happy that this is going to happen, because it's necessary for there to be enough teachers to see all the kids. But as our country looks, probably some municipalities will still be large and some will be small, at least if it's heads we're counting. We get 17 Vestfold counties into my home state, and some of the municipalities in my county are as large as Vestfold alone, but have 2,000 inhabitants. And the neighboring municipality is roughly the same, so there won't be exactly any crowd to put these together. That's not done either, because you see that it doesn't solve the problems you say it has to solve. There won't be very many people. Nor will it be after this reform that the government has now implemented. Because you think it's okay that some municipalities are allowed to be like this, while some municipalities are coerced together that are absolutely large enough, for example. Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo, who there can't be anyone who thinks is too small to solve their problems. These are also very centrally located municipalities, so you should think that everything was solved. But it's not. If you go according to what the county controls in these municipalities, there are as many breaches in these big municipalities as in the small ones. If we go according to what the population thinks about their municipality, there are actually more people who are satisfied with their municipality in the small ones. It might have several reasons. Some people think it's because people in small municipalities don't have the right to their own good, but I'll warn them against that. Some of them may actually have a good offer. The things that they have close to themselves, and that they feel they have influence over in everyday life, are also an important element that can be lost in large municipalities. It is not possible to cancel this geography, if you don't have a plan that there should be no special people in these municipalities, and that you want to move them. We can see that, for example. on the government’s broadband investment, where this is to be developed commercially. And that means that it's not possible to run businesses, have kids at school or do public activities in these neighborhoods if you don't guarantee this from society. SV has been for the voluntary community mergers all the time. We have even taken the initiative and have had more implemented in the previous period. So we don't have anything against it, but we want this to be voluntary. That's how municipalities cooperate. Large municipalities cooperate as much as small. They must. They must do the same hereafter. There is a lot of intermunicipal cooperation between large municipalities. That's good. There's nothing wrong with that. I don't understand when cooperation was a bad thing. It is true that some of these municipalities that have few inhabitants have to cooperate with the neighbor to get full jobs etc. Yes, they do, but if they choose that, we think that's the solution they're going to be allowed to choose. If they want to merge, SV is for it. So to the case where there have been bad processes. There have been bad processes all the way, but forward and sandnes may be the worst. During the June debate, SV proposed to postpone this particular case, precisely because it was a big raid – all the way into the big meeting. We did not quite know what was right, and it turned out afterwards that there was a meeting called for, as the rapporteur refused, and as the County says it was wrong. I believe it would have been wise if Stortinget had listened to SV and postponed the matter, and that we could now have dealt with it calmly and quietly. At least that's my advice to the government in the future. It may be a good idea for several municipalities to merge, but allow them to have a process on the sea, which is voluntary, which is free of financial coercive means and without deadlines that makes it impossible to get good solutions people are satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1098	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1103	That is quite right: this is a democratic reform – and SV is voting against, among other things. In matters where we want to give the municipalities greater power and authority, possibly in planning processes. But this is also a major welfare reform. It is about taking care of welfare services and securing good services for the inhabitants, especially the most vulnerable, both in the area of child protection, care for the elderly and others. I have our spokesperson in a municipality of 6,500 people. We went along with good efforts to take on these responsible tasks. They chose to work in the larger municipalities near us. So in many municipalities, the SV for coercion is just because they're busy with the best of their children, the weakest of them. But here on Stortingen, SV is totally opposed to coercion when it comes to doing the best for the inhabitants and the weakest. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1111	Because we take seriously what we said, that it should be a democratic reform, and then we respect the majority of the local government and what they have chosen. We have chosen to keep a very clean line on it, we have respected the majority that has become, regardless of whether SV has been in it or not. So we think it should be a reform of democracy. This is not what it is, it is a forced reform. For example: child protection, which has been used as an argument for this reform, the many municipalities that have inter-municipal cooperation work well. But child protection is one of the points that SV suggested that one could consider moving up to the county council, where it was before, just to get such a large unit and a large professional environment and such a large distance that one could have better quality of child protection than today. So we believe that regardless of this reform some municipalities will be too small to match this task, and we therefore believe that it should be raised to a regional level in order to be of good quality enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1118	I heard that Andersen's representative said that in the interior, Oppland and Hedmark, there are no contractions, and that the distances are so large that one is in danger of having to use helicopters in the home service. The representative of Andersen knows the Odalen well, and between Sagstua and Skarnes, i.e. between North Odal and South Odal, it is probably about. 17 km between town halls, and it takes 16 minutes by car. So bikes are probably more likely than they're going up in the helicopter. But the question is that we have 131 municipalities with fewer than 2,500 inhabitants in Norway, and nine out of ten municipalities of that size do not have a lawyer. In many contexts, Andersen’s representative is committed to legal certainty for both children, asylum seekers and other vulnerable groups. What's the reason these municipalities don't prioritize having a lawyer?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1125	Now there are none of the two municipalities that the representative now mentions, which have less than 2,000 inhabitants. On the other hand, it has municipalities like Rendalen, Stor-Elvdal and Engerdal, which are so large that if you combine them – and there are also mountain ranges between them – you actually have to use helicopters. But it is absolutely right that there is a problem of legal competence. For this reason, SV has made proposals on this in Stortinget, and Left has voted against our call for municipalities to create their own units of legal competence that they own – in cooperation. That's very necessary, because there's a lot of local authorities that are responsible for where a high level of legal competence is required. You also risk meeting a lawyer who has been hired into a case, as a counterparty to the table in the next case. It's unfortunate, so this has to be built up. You can do that in large municipalities, and you can do it in cooperation between several municipalities, and I think that large municipalities can also be involved in such cooperation with great advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1132	In Denmark, they have been through a regional reform and they chose not to allow inter-municipal cooperation in the form it was, which is actually comparable to Norway. They had a couple of hundreds of intercommunal cooperation – in Norway we have many thousands. The main reason was that in many of these cases, the elected representatives discharge local democratic responsibility. They're elected by the people, but they transfer the authority to someone else in practice. This was also the case for the socialist parties in Denmark, while this is clearly not the way to go for SV in Norway, which, on the contrary, wants more of depriving themselves of responsibility for elected representatives. In Norway, SV wants to talk a lot about a type of trust reform. Where's the lack of trust here, really, when politicians don't want to have any responsibility later?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1137	We want a reform of trust, and we trust that the municipalities that have now said no have the competence to say no, and that we should respect it. Trust reform is about removing New Public Management as a governance in the public sector, where stopwatch and measurement parameters are controlled that have nothing to do with quality. We have never said that one should look at Denmark and the reforms they have implemented there. On the contrary, because they bode well on everything we want to strengthen, namely democracy, confidence in the population, participation by the population, quality of services. In the case of intermunicipal cooperation: Some of the municipalities that cooperate most are the largest municipalities, so it's going to be interesting to see how the left thinks that we're not going to have intermunicipal cooperation in Norway. For that will be a real kiosk-gatherer, to say it like that, who kicks his legs under a lot of good work done in cooperation between the municipalities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1144	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1149	Today, we are considering a proposal for a rematch of a reform adopted by a majority in the Stortinget as late as June this year. For the Left, this has been a process over many years, where we have seen the need and the need to get what we call welfare municipalities, in Norway. This means that we need to structure Norway differently, in a little less municipalities, which have a little more inhabitants, so that we get resources distributed more evenly across the country and to the tasks we face. There's a relationship between an ageing population and municipality size. We must take this seriously, and we must face a future where the least mobile and those who require the most resources have a great need for public Norway. It is very good that we have municipalities that can provide good services near where the population lives. Then we must help ourselves to organize ourselves in the best possible way. The oil price shock, as some have called it, which we have been through over the last two years, is a warning that the time window in Norway to make this adaptation is definitely now. That's when we had the greatest economic sustainability, and we have the peace to carry out the kind of reform that we're now in the middle of. We're also talking about the income system here. For there is a proposal here that one should not use the income system to help make the necessary adjustments to the municipal structure. We're talking about the so-called equivalent possibilities. Then we also have to remember that many municipalities were so-called coercive in the 1960s and have had a heavy burden on them to make them more efficient, and there are limits to how long they will take responsibility on behalf of those municipalities that have not taken part in such adjustments. In the Red-Green Government, the then Health and Care Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, in connection with the interaction reform, spoke of a population of 20,000 in the municipalities being something close to the ideal to create this sustainability that we depend on to meet our challenges by 2030. Then it's hard to justify why we're going to stick with a small community supplement, if it's not based on anything other than being small and having the smallest possible population. I am myself from a municipality, Gjøvik Municipality, which was merged by four municipalities in the 1960s. I was born after that, so I grew up in the municipality of Gjøvik, but I'm actually from one of the other municipalities. There's no one there who wants to go back to where one was before. We have taken a leadership trough in Uppland to create a city municipality – now, in fact, also a university municipality. One's been leading. But it's also a question of sharing brotherly resources. Then it can't be that the many other small municipalities in Uppland will have to discuss forever whether they will remain small, based on the fact that there are economic incentives that make it an advantage. We are also discussing some so-called border adjustments in connection with this proposal, and in Ås Municipality there is an ongoing investigation related to someone moving into what some experience as the Ski Centre. There are also some of the challenges we face, so-called twin cities, in which we should over time clean up a little bit. We encourage the Council of State and the Department to complete the investigation on border adjustment in Ås, and elsewhere, where appropriate with corresponding adjustments. And then we're going to look at what means we're going to use in the future to bring about reasonable border adjustments. And then finally, I would like to point to the Left's proposal to use the new states to help bring about good contractions. I'll draw that, and I'll come back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1170	So the proposal isn't there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1175	No, it's drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1180	That is proposal No. 12, from the left, subtracted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1187	We see in the setting of this case that the Left wants the states to contribute to processes concerning the bundling of municipalities. Does the left see that the county is a kind of overcommunal for the municipalities? And in what way are these negotiations to be conducted – to provide some financial incentive, or is it about county roads and municipal roads? What measures does the Left consider that the county should contribute to municipalities that initially do not want to merge? Is it coercion on the part of the counties, or is it on a voluntary basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1193	I am very pleased that there will be a debate on this proposal, which I have just drawn up. But I think that is a very necessary debate in the course of the debate. The people have had a central role. They have a good overview of the situation in the counties. However, many rapporteurs and citizens have probably felt that the state has become a little too close. This is, of course, a discussion that regional politicians can help to negotiate good and sensible solutions locally. What you're going to put in that pot, you're going to have to discuss in the future. But it is not possible to get under the chair that there have been significant local bone hooks from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party where workers' party rapporteurs and centre party rapporteurs locally have really wanted good local solutions, but felt that the party at both central and county level has not contributed to it. This will be an opportunity for them to contribute together to finding good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1200	We recorded that the proposal was drawn, but can the Left say something about the reason for it? Is it, after instructions from other parties, from the government or from the four-party cooperation, that the Left does not now promote this proposal that the county council should have such a role as the Left initially wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1205	I register that it was only the Left who supported the proposal. I do not know why the Workers' Party would not want to support that proposal, but I hope that it will further create discussion in the Workers' Party. So I don't feel that there has been any pressure to draw the proposal. Rather, on the contrary, I feel that there has been a call for us to look at this further, and that the next crossroads is a community economic proposition or other issues we are going to deal with. Then we'll have better time to look at what's going to be possible incentives in such a package, and then we'll see, both the sizes and the possibilities that lie there. But that's what's needed, I'm registering that from party colleagues by the representative of Asphjell in, among other things. Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, in Valdres. It's a big wish to look at solutions now. And in the counties like Uppland and Hedmark, where it's not a single association, and where it's mostly Labour Party and Center Party rapporteurs, you're now afraid that you'll be sitting in the backseat and watch that a municipal reform goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1212	The left says in a note that they want to maintain the Norwegian tradition with strong welfare municipalities with a large and real local autonomy. Then they add that they require changes in the municipal structure, and that it is important to pursue a policy with incentives in order to achieve that objective. We're going to know more about that in our municipal proposition. Now he was probably aware that this had been pulled until further notice. But does the Left believe that citizens and local politicians in Norwegian municipalities are unable to assess for themselves how best to maintain the rule of the people and good services for the inhabitants? What incentives does the Left see that the municipalities should have, so that they still want to merge? Is it punishment, the same as it has been until now? The fact is that the incentives so far have gone at the expense of the general transfers to Norwegian municipalities, which are now experiencing a very narrow slope in the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1219	Norwegian local politicians do a very good job, but they do it within a mandate and an authority. Structure the municipal map is the Stortinget that has been given authority. So it's about how we dispose of the common resources we have – we all pay taxes – and how we distribute them to a public Norway, which is to distribute it within its framework areas. It's here that the Left Party and the Center have a different understanding of how we're going to distribute those resources, and where the municipalities don't have the authority to determine how many people there are going to be in each municipality. They have to say something about how you think it should be. And now we see that many volunteers have found together in larger units, either geographically or with more people. Usually it is. So here we get to continue the discussion about who should be empowered to what.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1224	In his post, the representative was very concerned that we could not have these small municipalities with less than 2000 inhabitants. We did not have to have the small community supplement at all, because it encouraged them not to merge, and that the services in the small municipalities were not effective, etc. I realized that he was in the target of 20,000 inhabitants in a municipality, and I understood that the left they thought about 20,000 people should be a minimum requirement. Today, we are discussing many of the Central Party's reversing proposals, including: Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo, where they are talking about municipalities that make up 60 000 to 70 000 inhabitants when they meet together. The left will not join in and reverse. We are discussing Leka–Bindal, which is municipalities with less than 2,000 inhabitants, both of them, as Left votes to reverse today. Why, then, do they not agree to reverse also the coercion of the large municipalities, which already have over 20,000 inhabitants today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1234	The representative of Greni performs a lot of free interpretation of the signed articles here. I have not said that the goal is to have municipalities of 20,000 inhabitants as a standard. We have the Municipality of Oslo, which is going to be over 600,000, so there's a huge inequality in population. We have 131 municipalities with fewer than 2,500 inhabitants, and there are no distance grounds and disadvantages for many of those municipalities. Some of them have large distances or e.g. are island municipalities, which will naturally be small. So we won't set any lower limit or no upper limit. But there is a lot to go on considering that many municipalities, like my own, Gjøvik Municipality, have been required to take out large efficiency resources – and not have six councillors, as they have in Valdres, with 18,000 inhabitants, while in Gjøvik, with 30,000 inhabitants, we have only one. This also applies to principals, municipal doctors and others. We have to distribute resources better, and then there's something to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1239	We have now, through the treatment here, got the impression that the Left is perhaps the strongest centralization party and the party that also now in the post said very clearly that a better expenditure and income adjustment between the municipalities and is not the case of the Left. The changes that have now been made while the Left has been a supporting party have operated with some strange parameters, such as ‘voluntary small’ and ‘involuntary small’, and they have turned out to be very strange in this reform. It is true that some of the small district municipalities have been increased, but some of the municipalities that now have the size that you say you want, which is central, have suffered considerable losses – due to the fact that some parameters have been found that are not appropriate. I see that the Left will not agree with this proposal that we have promoted. But is it the case that the representative Kjeseth believes that the other municipalities in Uppland should now receive less money and that Gjøvik and Lillehammer should receive more?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1246	Now, the income system has just done so. This also led to Uppland receiving 400 million. kr more in total. It did not just come to Gjøvik and Lillehammer, but it led to the fact that some of the pressures that the two large municipalities in Uppland have had on them to make them more efficient have had a different outcome by getting them lifted up a little. For an average income of 100 pst. So Gjøvik is 94 pst, while many of the small municipalities are 110 and 120 pst. of the means of income. So for centralization. It's on the contrary – it's decentralization Left is doing it. Because we have to include the state centralisation that has taken place, among other things. under the red-green government, where SV sat, where one collided Health South and Health East to «Health Largest». This helped us to make more use of Norway by having sustainable units across Norway, and not all must accumulate in major cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1253	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1258	June 8 is the date that applies today, which has been referred to by a lot of people. It then made a decision on the municipal reform and the future of the municipal reform, and it was a decision on a series of mergers based on voluntary decisions in the municipalities. Of course, the Christian People's Party voted for this – with one exception. That exception is clear to everyone in the room, and I will come back to that. Decisions were also taken to establish nine new major municipalities, which were not based on mutually positive municipal governance decisions. Well, that's what we call the coercive decisions. The decisions voted against the Christian People's Party's big group. There's been an incredible amount of talk about volunteering and volunteering. The Christian People's Party is also opposed in the current ageing period and will oppose the coercion of municipalities. But the voluntary line should also not be defined so that it is not to reverse anyone who wants to. If you're opposed to volunteering, you don't. We have always said, after that, that this is a kind of case that is generally not suitable for reversal. That's why we didn't go to the elections on reversal, as opposed to other parties, which signaled very clearly in the election campaign that they would then reverse. Then it's a little strange that all the confidence that there will be changes in these reversal decisions will be put on the Christian People's Party, which went out in the election campaign and said we wouldn't reverse. So the responsibility for the reversing statements has to be on the part of the parties that would. We said, however, that if there were special considerations that warrant it, we'll get back to it, and that's why we're promoting the proposal for Leka and Bindal. There has been great resistance in these municipalities, and of course both should be taken into account. It is also important for us that it does not block the association of Nærøy and Vikna, which I understand is a desired association. And it's important that we get the decisions on this now, so that the process can continue, regarding 1 January. The reasons why we're in favour of this have come out well. Leka is an island municipality, and the other island municipalities in Norway were allowed to pass. Bindal was not proposed by the State. They also do not want to replace the county. That's why we agreed, and we're very pleased that the Left, Right and Advance Party subsidiaryly say that they can support this, because then this becomes a reality. I would like to make a few comments on the forwarding/sandnes: It has been well received in the Chamber before today that the decision that was to be made on the same day, on June 8th – it should have been made in the morning, it was not done until evening – until the decision was taken here in Stortinget on a failed basis. It is important for us that the County has subsequently endorsed the decision. There are many other municipalities that have contacted the Christian People's Party and said that it is an inexorable process and wrong decision, but in common with all of them, they have not received a passed decision. However, it has Forward and Sandnes, so I especially want to appeal to the Workers' Party to reverse that decision and go in to reverse the Forward/Sandnes. So to the border adjustment between Ås and Ski municipalities, which was started. It was a wish from the surrounding municipalities, not from Ås municipality itself. We will certainly be criticized for not being involved in any more reversals. I have an explanation for that: there must be a high threshold for such decisions, and the Christian People's Party actually has a great deal of respect for legitimate decisions, and I get it. I am promoting the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1282	The representative Torhild Bransdal has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1289	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party determines that the voluntary line will apply. I am also pleased that the representative says that the income system is no longer to be used to force communication forms. But it's a little hard to see what the Christian People's Party really means when you say that Leka is going to pass, because it's an island. Why is local democracy in Leka worth more than those who oppose a coercion in South Africa, in Fat and in Haram?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1294	An extensive investigation was carried out at that time in the municipalities of Norway, actually supported by the ministry. One so there were special conditions. The play was the only one of these island municipalities that were then merged, and we choose to listen to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1299	I just have to say, for the Christian People's Party, that's the way it is. How, then, should local democracy be interpreted, when local governments, for which I know the representative has been the leader for many years, have taken decisions that say no? Why is it that decisions of individual municipalities are drawn out as more valid than those of others? From a local democratic perspective, I could imagine that the representative Bransdal had explained this a little more thoroughly to us others, why one believes that local democracy should be valid in some combinations, but not in others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1304	I have already explained it very well, that in special circumstances the Christian People's Party would go in, and I have tried to initiate a reason – whether it is accepted or not. I want to answer back with the Forward/Sandnes, which must be the same issue for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1309	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is now with us on the decision that all municipal mergers will only be voluntary in the future, and that they are part of and form the majority of a proposal that states that the income system of the municipalities should not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. It's important. It prevents the continuation of the type of changes made to the income system from 2017. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is in a majority opinion, which states that it is ‘true to pursue a policy with incentives’ in order to achieve the objective of changing the municipal structure. I think both the government and the others need a clarification of what the Christian People's Party means by that remark. What kind of incentive does the party think about here, and how will it be assured that this will not affect the assumption that the income system should not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1316	It has been notified, and the Christian People's Party is in favour of an evaluation of the new income system. We'll get back to it stronger, because there's several ways to do this. You don't necessarily have to take away from the municipalities. It could be a bigger pot. There's several ways to think about it, and that's the answer I can give today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1321	I was originally going to ask about what is not suitable for reversal, because there is no justification for why these decisions are not suitable for reversal. They're not implemented, and they're under compulsion. But I think I have to follow up what Mr. Greni said, because the Christian People's Party is therefore in the midst of a proposal for a decision – and I am very happy about it – that says: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the municipalities should ensure equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform.’ It adds some leads that at least on the SV's side means that you should not punish or reward either the municipalities where hopefully someone finds out that they want to join each other in the future, or those who do not. Is this an interpretation that the representative of the Christian People's Party can agree with?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1331	Then I have to repeat that it is going to be an evaluation of the income system, and it is explicitly said that it is the volunteer line that applies to the current period. That's the majority for the Storing, so we're going to have plenty of time to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1336	Through this treatment, the Christian People's Party has given the Workers' Party some good insight into the voluntary line and that one should not use the income system for further aggregation. But when it came to Forward and Sandnes, which were important for the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party would not contribute because the Workers' Party has the rapporteur in Sandnes, and it became more important. Is the representative Bransdal disappointed that the Labour Party will not represent anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1344	I just want to record that I see a logical flaw in the line of argument from the Workers' Party in the case of Forwards and Sandnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1354	Nearly six months ago, the Stortinget examined proposals for a new municipal structure. 121 municipalities were adopted together with 47 new municipalities. Today, Stortinget takes a decision that shows that the municipal reform is still in place. Although the merger for Leka and Bindals is reversed, all other decisions are taken. About 1.7 million inhabitants will live in a new municipality in 2020. We have carried out the biggest innovation in the Municipality of Norway since the 1960s. The aim of the community reform is to provide strong, living communities throughout the country. Municipalities shall have the competence and capacity to provide good welfare services — services for young and older people, but also services for those with special needs. If you are seriously injured in a traffic accident or have severe mental problems, you should be helped to master your daily life in the municipality of your home, no matter where you live. Then more than a few warm hands are needed. There is a need for specialised competence and a professional environment. Municipalities must have the power to promote good social development in order to facilitate economic development, adequate housing and environmentally friendly transport solutions. Borders that follow old pastoral debt and father - in - law are not adapted to today’s modern cities and towns. It is therefore essential that we have fewer municipal boundaries, fewer neighbourhood borders and more holistic social planning. For the parties of government, the Left and the Christian People's Party, the aim is to spread power and build society from below. We will give people, associations and communities the opportunity to govern their own everyday life and their own future. In that case, municipalities throughout the country must have the power, competence and capacity to take more responsibility. So they can also gain more power. We will take care of the Norwegian tradition of strong communities, municipalities with great responsibility for well-being and development. Therefore, the structure needs to be adapted to today's society and tomorrow's challenges. The alternative to change in the municipal structure is more detailed state governance and more centralisation. The alternative to change is confusion. Therefore, it is reassuring that some parties have run a campaign and a political game about the reversal of the decisions taken by the Stortinget before the summer. While employees, elected representatives, associations and residents of communities throughout the country have been building new and stronger municipalities, some national politicians have run around and spread uncertainty and unforeseeableness. That's the last municipality that needs. We need stronger communities and communities. We must equip ourselves for the future, not dreams of the past. We need to modernise, not reverse. That is why we are implementing the municipal reform – a reform that is over 90 pst. decisions are based on local positive decisions and a few national decisions in cases where this has been well justified for regional reasons. This is fully in line with the majority of the Grand Duchy adopted at the start of the reform and in line with the Labour Party’s election programme for the previous period. It is particularly discouraging that the Workers' Party, which has been engaged for a long time in the field of municipal reform, has embarked on this reversing line, a party which has traditionally been able to stand firm and take responsibility for demanding elections for the country. In this case, the Labour Party has wavered and fallen, falling for the temptation to seek short-term political gain in a matter that requires leadership and long-term long-termity. Many of the People's Party's own elected representatives have clearly expressed their disappointment at this turnaround and the inability to carry out a necessary reform. The rapporteur of the Labour Party in Ålesund described this well. She said, «For me, this is about building the country, which Ap has always been concerned about. The play on the reversal of coercion decisions does not testify to the fact that Ap is on this proud tradition," said the Labour Party rapporteur in Ålesund. I am pleased that the vast majority of the reversing proposals today are being put to the vote. The time of the fighting is over. Now we have to look forward. Community reform will continue. Although by 2020 we will have significantly fewer municipalities, too many will still be too small for the major tasks they have and for the challenges they face. Therefore, we will follow up in line with the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which means that the municipal reform will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1394	The Council of State here warns that the municipal reform will continue. Then I expect the Council of State has noticed what is in the position today, where a majority says: ‘Possible municipal mergers for the period 2017 to 2021 shall be based solely on voluntary activity.’ And then the majority says – if it lasts throughout the day: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the municipalities should ensure equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform.’ It's something quite different than what the state council has done so far. Then my question is: how will the Council of State follow up these two very specific proposals when he is going to go further with the community reform? I'm assuming that we don't get any coercive proposals for this hall in this period, and I'm assuming that we get an income system that takes account of the majority of people up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1409	I understand why the representative is so aggressive, because the reality is that we followed up the reform quite in line with what was in the Labour Party's programme last time. I will follow what Stortinget has provided for the current period – of course. If we look at the income system, that's how it ensures equivalent conditions. The problem with the old income system was that it rewarded municipalities that insisted on standing alone, and that in some cases it made it more difficult for municipalities to join together, so we neutralised the income system. Of course, I am going to follow up in line with the guidelines and remarks made by Stortinget. I have noticed what is also said about volunteering, and it has – with all due respect – been the main line in this matter. And then, in a few exceptions, the Stortinget has taken decisions, which were also in line with the Workers' Party's programme for the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1416	I am pleased that the Council of State has read the Workers' Party's programme, but I expect that he has also followed the decisions taken at national meetings in the Workers' Party afterwards, where it was done a nuance of it with volition, that one should not be able to coerce municipalities together. The Council of State here says that changes have been made to the income system that has benefited municipalities. But then it is quite strange to hear all the municipalities where regional centre grants have now disappeared – because they have been included in the income guarantee scheme. You have zone subsidies that have disappeared, which no one has told you about. Does this mean that the Council of State has not controlled the proposals he has made to the Storting and which have been used to remedy a reform that has not been well enough investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1423	There is no reform in this country that has been better investigated than the community reform. There has been a discussion of the need for municipal reform since the late 1980s, and the Workers' Party has been one of its proponents. Therefore, it is not surprising that many of the local politicians of the Labour Party around Norway have taken the lead in implementing the reform. What has been comforting, and I now quoted it, among other things. The rapporteur, Mr Ålesund, is the Workers' Party's turnaround. I understand that's caused frustration. And I have been following the Worker Party program well, I have read the setting, and of course I will follow up in line with the setting. But I see that out there there is a drive to build stronger municipalities so that you can take care of the Norwegian tradition with strong welfare municipalities. And in terms of zone criteria, the data was published in June, so this didn't come as the Christmas evening on the ring, but it's a reality that it's given some unwanted results. That's why Rissa and Lexsvik have been compensated, and we'll also look at this in months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1428	Governments do not respond to the large item, the regional centre grant, which is now coordinated with the income guarantee scheme. Is it true, or is it not true that many lose their grants just for that reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1433	All grants, regional policy grants — both the grant for North Norway and for South Norway, which includes the small municipality grant — are also included in the income guarantee scheme. So it would be especially if we made an exception for the regional centre grant. But now that matter lies in Stortinget, we see what Stortinget concludes with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1438	Consignor/Sandnes was adopted as a so-called voluntary merger in June. That was because the rapporteur in Forsand prevented the local council from taking a new decision. The county states that it was a violation of municipal law. Later, the local government in Forward has decided that they want to join Strand. A merger with Strand will be a merger with common borders, which sounds much more sensible than with a municipality with which they do not have common borders. I asked the Council of State in a written question whether he now shares the views of municipal politicians that this was a coercion. I got an answer on December 5, where he unfortunately fails to comment on the question. That's why I'm giving him a new opportunity today. Does the Council of State understand that the municipal politicians in Forsand define this merger as a coercion? Should not the facts now emerging lead to a reassessment of the aggregation in this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1448	The representative jumps over a very significant point. It is the Stortinget that decides the municipal boundaries and the mergers of municipalities. The Stortinget has done so in this case. The size has concluded. It's a national decision made in the Supreme Democratic People's elected body we have in Norway. Of course, as a government council, I follow up the decision that Stortinget made in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1453	It is very fine if the Council of State follows up the decisions that are being taken, because today decisions are going to be taken that are different from those that the Council of State has carried out since so far. I noticed that he also said in his post that the time of the fighting was over. Then we get to hope it when the Storting will now decide that there will be voluntary processes, and also that the income system must be rigged in such a way that it is not used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. I think the council has answered very carefully and wanted this. So this is what the Big One is going to decide. Is it the case that the Storting now has to guess at the Council of State every day for this to be implemented, or is the Council of State going to respect this proposal and base the processes he is about to enter into – on the basis of this proposal that there is going to be a majority for here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1462	The representative Karin Andersen guesses the council almost every day. I feel absolutely sure that the representative will also do in this case, and that is how it should be. It shall be such that the Storting fits the government. As several representatives have been involved in this debate, the income system is being evaluated, and we discuss the income system every year. What we did about changes in the last period was that we removed the punishment that many municipalities received when they merged. The income system is something we discuss every year. But I react when the representative Karin Andersen characterises the way the reform work is done. It is local politicians from all parties who have done the job in Kommune-Norway. My job as the Council of State has been to back them up, to support them in the important job they have done. I believe that representatives from all parties – the Centre Party, SV, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party – have joined forces to build stronger municipalities. Many have succeeded, and many of them are happy that the time of the rematch is over. Now we have to look forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1471	So the line chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1478	The municipalities are a pillar of the Norwegian People's Government and of the Norwegian welfare community. Very many services, from cradle to grave, are the responsibility of the municipalities. It's services that are important to people, it's services that people have clear opinions about, and then it's also important to be close between those who rule, and those who are governed. For this reason, it is also important to give municipalities greater freedom by strengthening free revenues so that they can provide better services, adapted to local needs. It is important to strengthen local tax law and it is important that municipalities themselves be able to decide whether to continue to be their own municipality or whether to join others. It is very important and gratifying that the majority in this Chamber now state that, during this period, municipal mergers should be based solely on voluntary activity. At the same time, I have to say that it is a valid paradox that the Christian People's Party, which opposed the use of coercion in the previous period, which is opposed to the use of coercion during this period of mass destruction, still does not ensure that all the municipalities that want to exist as their own municipality have the opportunity to do so. For example, in my own municipality of residence, Sørum, a referendum was held this year in connection with the roll-call elections. That was 70 pst. participation in elections. There were more who voted at the referendum there than it was who voted at the previous municipal elections. Almost 60 pst. has been rejected and has been followed up by decisions of the Municipal Council of 25 October and by consultation of the Municipal Committee. A number of other municipalities have also been aware that they want to remain as their own municipality, they want the decision to be taken again. The center party has had a clear line, we haven't created any uncertainty. We have been very clear about this throughout the election campaign: all municipalities that want to do so should be able to stand as their own municipalities. It is also what the majority in this Chamber is now saying, through the voluntary decision that is now to be taken, that all municipalities that want to do so will be able to remain as their own municipalities. Then, as I said, it becomes a great paradox that it will not also apply to the municipalities that were forced in June of this year, and that it will only apply in the future. It is not in the hope, and I would like to ask the Christian People's Party to think again – one last time – about its vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1491	The body of the Workers' Party in its work on the community reform is a good example of what happens when a normally predictable, serious and large party chooses to participate in a short-term and populist campaign in order to win the election. For eight years, the Labour Party was in a majority government without carrying out a municipal reform that they themselves strongly wanted, because they let the Senter Party decide. So when the Solberg government started the reform work, the Workers' Party set itself whole-hearted, and that's positive. They went, among other things, also in order for the Stortinget to merge municipalities with coerced municipalities where regional considerations so warrant. But the city-to-country campaign of the Center Party made the Workers' Party become insecure, and the party did the art of leaving a decision they themselves had voted for, before the pouring period was over. At least this type of vibration is not appreciated by the voters. That's what we saw at the fall's choice. The alternative to change is not only standstill, but also confusion. Norway is constantly developing, and demographic challenges and skills challenges are not going to go off by themselves. During the previous four-year period, the government has just addressed these challenges, making a number of efforts for Kommune-Norway. We have to go back to the last millennium to see an equally good local economy. Never have fewer municipalities been on the ROBEK list, and the Central Party's message about centralisation and starvation was made quite a shame by various fact-finding agencies. We want strong welfare municipalities with a large and real local autonomy. But it also requires changes in the municipal structure in the future, and only in this way can we equip Kommune-Norway to meet its challenges in a good way for the benefit of its citizens. Even with today's decision, 119 municipalities will become 47, and every third population will live in a new municipality in 2020. I think this is just the beginning. It might as well be that the Workers' Party has chosen to put itself in the back seat of this work. It will at least keep them far away from the brake pedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1508	For the Centre Party, volunteering is a fundamental principle. The same is true of proximity to good services and a short distance between elected and elected citizens — in other words, strong local democracy. We've witnessed a municipal reform that goes all the way across all of these values. We have seen a process that has reached new heights when it comes to the overrun of local people's rule and the centralization of power, people and capital. That's what's going to be the result of the government's long series of coercive mergers after a reform process that has used whips and coercion to achieve the government's desired result. We're going to get centralization, we're going to get greater distances and fewer elected people, and large municipalities are going to get better conditions at the expense of small municipalities. So today it seems that the hope that several of the coercive mergers will be stopped is shattered. Of course, in those municipalities where there have been good local processes and mutual decisions on voluntary aggregation, we support this here, but it is in very close proximity to all that is the case. In the course of the reform process, the government provided the income system in a way that punishes those who choose to stand alone, causing small municipalities to lose out on behalf of more central and larger municipalities. It is obvious that these steps here have been taken to force municipalities to merge, and to make it practically impossible to avoid bowing to the will of the government. At the same time, the government has tried to overshadow the importance of the grips they've done, and we've heard a lot of nice expressions about which principles the government thinks should underlie the reform. Erna Solberg's explanation that the government will use mild coercion is perhaps the best example of how rhetoric and words have been used to try to wrap this up here. Several municipalities that have chosen to stand alone are now experiencing major financial challenges when adopting the 2018 budget. It will also apply to the budgets until 2022, if we do not get any changes. After the drastic starvation of small municipalities that the government has stood for, we can hardly expect them to turn around and start pursuing a policy that actually creates opportunities for all citizens of all municipalities in the country. The income system needs to be structured in such a way that equivalent services and development opportunities are provided regardless of the size of the municipality and the geography, and according to the position we have here, it is certainly what the government believes. But that's not the situation with today's income system. The first person to speak here today, Ove Trellevik, said that the volunteer line has always been on the ground and will always be on the ground. It's very bad with reality. That is why it is sad that the reform is now being implemented without we having to abolish the coercive mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1523	The time for implementing the municipal reform was overdue in the summer when the decisions were taken. Many municipalities have now made good progress in forming new communities with neighbouring municipalities. The community reform has been more successful than many had ever seen before. Over 150 municipalities had a desire for aggregation. Nevertheless, we have this reversal debate today. That should be unnecessary. The main thrust of the reform has been voluntary. Eleven municipalities decided to stand alone, but were merged by Stortinget. But in all of these cases, there were also municipalities that wanted to merge. The premises agreed upon by the majority in the examination of the framework for the community reform were followed. The majority has taken legal decisions, despite the Wing of the Workers' Party and the Central Party's brake. Community merger is a major and demanding process. There is no doubt that the rematch we have had in the autumn has created great uncertainty and unforeseeability for many. That is why it is good that we are able to state today that the main lines of the reform are fixed, so that the merging municipalities are now able to continue their work. There is also no doubt that the municipal reform will continue. One of the reasons for this is that citizens still have increased expectations of better services. We want access to the same services and service levels regardless of where we live in the country, and the few of us are actually willing to pay more for it. This showed the results of the elections quite clearly in the autumn. The Labour Party went to the elections with a threat that we had to 15 billion. kr more in tax to finance services. The voters said no in cash. Urban reform has been a long way from meeting the growing expectations of the population for quality. Many municipalities have so far solved these problems through a series of intercommunal cooperation, and it can be problematic, because you move power out of elected bodies and into a governance room, and that's not good local democracy. The municipal reform brings power back from the intercommunal companies to the elected members of the people. In addition, we move power from state to municipality. The opposition is talking about decentralization, but it's the government and the cooperation parties that have delivered in this context. I am pleased that the Stortinget today shows that there is still a majority of the main lines of the municipal reform, as the election result of the autumn also indicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1540	The municipalities are the foundation of our welfare society. Most of us meet public services in municipalities, whether it be kindergarten, school or health and care services. Municipalities also have a very important social development role. The last time we made major changes in the municipal structure was in the 1960s. Since then, municipalities have been given far more tasks, and the population's expectations for quality are higher. We need a municipal structure adapted to tomorrow's challenges, not yesterday's. If we're going to take care of the tradition of strong communities and continue to shift more power to the municipalities, yes, we need municipalities that have both the competence and the capacity to handle it. If municipalities are to have good conditions to provide good services to their citizens now and in the future, we still need strong professional environments. That's the whole background for us adopting the biggest structural change in the Municipality of Norway just six months ago since the 1960s. The vast majority of the municipal mergers adopted in June were voluntary. We can thank rapporteurs and people around the country, across party boundaries, for the work they have done because they felt that the community reform and community mergers would lead to better services for their citizens. In the years to come, more municipalities will continue the next talk, more will come together, and we will continue the municipal reform for the good of people. A debate on how we provide good services to people, I like to take every day, but the parties Labour Party and the Center Party – which seem to have been dedicated to the fact that reversing and political games should provide better services to people – should bring with them a few things. At the elections in the fall, the people rejected the reversal option. It wasn't, and it's still not, something torch outside the Stortinget against the municipal reform. On the contrary, people and rapporteurs speak well together to find new solutions. There were only two municipalities that were covered by the decision in June that also met at the hearing when the municipal committee had a hearing, to tell us about the consequences. It shows that the realities of the municipalities are different from what the political game of the Workers' Party and the Centre have tried to draw. So the result of the rematch and the political game is that the municipal reform is almost the same as it was before. Now the fight is over. Municipalities need to be calmed down to cooperate and create new municipalities, so that we can still get even better services for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1555	Today, the majority in this Chamber are overrun by local democracy, at least in most of the cases, even if you write something else – you say that you are starting with ‘good local processes’. I would like to quote one of the first comments from the majority of the Committee: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party, indicate that the municipal reform is based on good local processes, where the municipalities have made mutual decisions to merge.’ That's directly wrong. Here you coercion municipalities that have decided to stand alone. From the day one, this process has been aimed at getting a few large municipalities. Now, state council Sanner and the government aren't going to be able to do that, but it's all very noticeable that you're overrun by individual municipalities, as you're doing here. Then you try to make it that it's the Workers' Party that's winged. No, the Workers' Party has not waved. The working party has been very clear on how we stand in this matter. It's not useful to repeat it over and over again. The free will line is strong in this. Another thing that stands strong is that we listen to those who have the shoe on, and that's the municipalities. It is not that it will automatically be a better offer for the population if you get a large municipality – perhaps often on the contrary. What is crucial is that the municipalities have good framework conditions to give the offer we want in this room. As a municipal politician for 30 years, eight of them as rapporteur, I believe I have quite good knowledge of this. This case at least reveals that we have a government council that doesn't have the same knowledge. This room is daily dedicated to our citizens having good offers, whether it's school, kindergarten, health, care or culture or as a nutritionist. But it's essentially that it's the municipalities and county councils that are going to do this every day and make sure that we achieve these goals. It is therefore essential that these municipalities be able to do so. It should therefore be more important for the local government minister to focus on content and framework conditions than coercion and size of municipalities. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has turned around in Bindal, but I am very uncertain about where we have the Christian People's Party in the future, based on both what they say and what they write. Can Bindal now feel confident that we have a government that will give them good framework conditions in the future in order to be able to give the inhabitants a still good offer? At least it seems that you really want to punish them because they are now allowed to remain a municipality of their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1575	In the last 50 years, Kommune-Norge has been given a number of demanding tasks. The size has moved many tasks from state to state and state to municipalities without Stortinget asking the municipalities if they would or could handle all of these tasks. The last major reform that the municipalities were commissioned to solve was the interaction reform, a reform that, in my view, is the main driver of the municipal reform. But now the municipalities are to be heard, and now words are being used as coercion and lack of local democracy. Assigning tasks to municipalities is decentralisation. To give municipalities what they need to deliver good services, someone chooses to call centralisation. Thus, the size has for many years assigned new tasks to municipalities, but is not at the same time willing to review the municipal boundaries so that they correspond to the tasks assigned to the municipalities, and so that the municipalities are robust enough to be able to deliver the services that Stortinget has adopted. I believe it is irresponsible that some municipalities only have a few employees within small services such as: child protection or intoxication and psychiatry. I respect the fact that politicians will take care of small municipalities, but I believe that politicians who want to take care of small municipalities should also say what services they think should be lifted from the smallest municipalities. Since we are still going to have small municipalities, I believe that we should do just like Germany and differentiate the tasks of the municipalities, so that small municipalities get fewer tasks. I was the rapporteur who started the first municipal merger process, but I still believe that it is the Stortinget and not the local politicians who are going to decide what the administrative division of the country should look like. So now local politicians are given the opportunity to take care of unnatural municipal boundaries, rather than the Stortinget being able to revise and create a municipality-Norway that is proportionate to today's demands and needs. I think it's sad that the Workers' Party went away from its 2013 election promise and signed up for a necessary social development. A broad compromise could create entities that can meet the challenges and needs of the future. Last year my municipality became part of a completely new municipality. A few weeks into the new year, I received an enquiry from a lady who worked in the psychiatry. They were going to offer a family course to detect suicide candidates, and she wanted me to communicate the offer to a specific target group. Then I thought that the new big municipality would be very good. Stuck municipalities had skilled staff in the field of drugs and psychiatry, but they were too few to be called a professional community, and they were too few and too small to provide preventive health services within the psychiatry, as new Sandefjords can offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1589	I strongly doubt that the previous speaker was the first rapporteur to initiate a municipal merger. I don't think the representative is that old. On behalf of the people of Bindal and Leka, we in the Center Party are very pleased that the Stortinget is going in to cancel the merger between these municipalities and Nærøy and Vikna. I assume that the majority in the committee position is supported on this point, although I do not understand why Close and Vikna should not have the same opportunity as the other two to reconsider the matter. I am therefore a little surprised that the Stortinget does not follow the proposal of the Central Party to terminate the other coercive mergers as well. The situation for these municipalities is broadly consistent with the situation for Bindal and Leka, and let me show you some examples of that. Haram has joined four other municipalities to a Great Ålesund. Haram is one of the largest municipalities in More and Romesdal, both in the area and in the population. In the referendum, it was only 19 pst. who wished to merge with Ålesund. The claim of the county council and the government for coercion is that Haram is trapped between Sandøy and Nye Ålesund. It's a questionable truth, because between the island municipalities of Sandøy and Haram, it's 45 minutes' travel time, including ferries. I add that the Christian People's Party locally is strongly opposed to the merger, and also voted against this decision here in the Stortinget on 8 June. The coercion of Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo is another example of how the arguments for using coercion came to fruition. All municipalities opposed aggregation – after there was a majority against a new large municipality in all these municipalities. For the municipalities do not form any natural unit, so the exception to use coercion when one of the municipalities closes to a new natural unit is not at all relevant in this case. The merger of Søgne, Songdalen and Kristiansand is mentioned in the debate. There are strong reactions, especially in the Investigations, to how the local processes are presented to the Storting. The reality is that neither Søgne nor Songdalen want a merger with Kristiansand, and Songdalen only if Søgne said yes. Those who know the Fosen situation know that the coercion of Bjugn and Ørland has been carried out despite strong local protests. The council's recommendation here was a merger of five municipalities on Fosen, but the council in Ørland decided that they wanted to continue as their own municipality, and in Bjugn there was a desire for cooperation with several municipalities on Fosen. All ten proposals to give the municipalities the opportunity to lift the coercive merger decisions are based on local, well-founded decisions and, in particular, on arguments from local authorities and residents that demonstrate that mergers are not the best in terms of the situation they themselves face locally. The representatives of Storting should listen to their citizens and others and to local politicians in the municipalities concerned and vote in favour of the proposal to close the government’s coercive agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1606	«Free as the bird shall the people live; Clear your living space, stria and streva, living in law, knowing the history of doves in memory, know future lives in mind day after day." This is the first verse in the Prologue of "One Game About King Herloag", which was set up at Leka last summer after many years of pause. The king allowed himself to be buried alive, he went ‘in a heap’ because he did not want the tams to submit to the hairy. The outer similarity between Hair Fairy and Sanner may not be obvious. But there are long lines in the Leka people's struggle for freedom, and the coercion has aroused strong emotions. This has not been understood by the government parties. They have driven their own race. It feels like an outrage and is directly humiliating to people who are being affected. There are many, including the Workers' Party, who want municipal mergers. But the people themselves must decide their own future. And it is thanks to terrible political craftsmanship that we are there today. The municipalities were to join forces without any mention of tasks to follow, and without any knowledge of the economy. It did, as we know, not create the very great enthusiasm, and therefore the majority had to use coercion – the worst possible starting point for a merger. Now, all of a sudden, the government parties are voting for the proposal of the Christian People's Party concerning Leka and Bindal. It's a joyous hustle and bustle. But they can't thank you for the last time: the parties write in the setting that the government should ensure that Leka and Bindal repay grants resulting from the merger. It's hardly about the very large amount, but it's really petty. And how is this going to be done? Very well known is the amount paid to the municipality of Nærø. Moreover, municipalities have used large resources for their own account in this process. If the government requires reimbursement of grants, might Leka also be able to demand that the expenses they have incurred in the process be paid by the government? Now that the government parties vote for Leka and Bindal to be maintained as their own municipalities, they are also responsible for ensuring that these municipalities can provide equivalent services and have equivalent development opportunities compared to other municipalities. The working party will be occupied with this in the future. «Free as the bird, the people of Leka shall live in peace and peace. Feel it breaking the boatboard and bow, be aware of a wear as far as the margin is concerned; but never shall liberty be laid in a heap!’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1648	Yes, I don't know how much freedom there really is in Kommune-Norway when some municipalities have as much as 40 intercommunal companies, and how much freedom the local government and the citizens actually have in terms of what has been claimed in the debate here: the importance of proximity to decisions. There is not much proximity to decisions in intercommunal Norway, how many decisions are taken by governments, and the municipalities, as the Presidency, usually meet at owner’s meetings once a year. I myself have been sitting in several intercommunal companies, and to say it this way: democracy is probably not being exercised in closed rooms. So I mean, this is throwing blues in people's eyes. What we need are large municipalities, municipalities that are strong, municipalities where local democracy lives, with power and responsibility near the decisions. It actually requires a certain size. If the Workers' Party had been in power now, and with the pace and authority that the Workers' Party has shown, we would not have had municipal mergers. There is a difference between managing and exercising power and simply throwing the cards – and that is what I feel the Workers' Party, as a large governing party, has done in this matter. Historically, the Labour Party has been behind major reforms. I want to mention the health enterprise reform. It crosses many municipalities, many counties. If we had debated it today – it was also a great resistance – I doubt it would have become a reality. My future concern is that we are moving towards digital society, automation in society, and we have challenges in mental health, especially among children and young people. We're going to have psychologists in the individual municipalities, we're going to have big and good environments that allow you to have quality in health, school, and not least in physical and mental retardation. Then it is not useful with small trade unions. One simply has to ‘outsource’ a part of it, and that is not democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1657	After hearing Mr. Örmen Johnsen's contribution now, it will be interesting to follow her journey further, for example. two right-hand-steered municipalities, Drammen and Lier. But Johnsen here says that there will be an end to intermunicipal cooperation. We have to keep an eye on what those words mean in practice. The municipalities merge after a package agreement from 8 June this year between the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, as the representative Kjønaas Kjos said in his statement. What was the contents of the package, how many different things were in the package agreement, nobody knows other than the management of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. So this is how the foundation of our rule of people, the municipalities, is treated by these parties. The right now supports that package agreement with one exception. The Christian People's Party was opposed to coercion decisions in June – now the representative says Bransdal that such decisions “on a general basis are not suitable for reversal” – without any argument. That's natural, for what would a argue with now, just six months later, because no decision has been taken that cannot be reversed. The aim of community consolidation is the centralisation of power and thus the basis for even more centralisation of activity. Norway is too farfetched for the Right. It is produced as old-fashioned to populate the whole country. All the great people who have made a hard effort for the country and for the community, and who want to do it further, don't get any special knock on the shoulder of the Right, and it also shows the election results. One vote away from the Right. We need living communities throughout the country, and we need more attractive work opportunities for young families around the district of Norway. But the Right is going to shrink Norway. Right-wing arguments that centralisation will provide better welfare services for people. That claim has not been documented. That's why I want to say, there's an dishonest argument from the Right in this whole case from end to end. One dares not argue with what is the core, namely the centralization of power and the centralization of activity. For this reason, state councils need to force Sanner to merge, so state councils need to resort to package agreements with the Progress Party and the Left – and then the Christian People's Party – that no one else knows the content of. I remember very well the 1995 voluntary line of the Right, when the Right stopped the corresponding policies of the Workers' Party. Then the Right was a more value-conservative party, after the legacy of the leader Erling Norvik. Now there's something quite different with State Council Sanner. In this great crowd, the Christian People's Party decides what will happen next. Will the Christian People's Party stand by what they have said here today, it may be well, but from experience I know that it requires a broad popular commitment, so that the Christian People's Party gets further support in its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1672	I think it is very special to run an entire election campaign that you want to put Norway in reverse. It's okay to have the starting point that you don't want to merge, or that aggregation should be voluntary, but it's also common for you to lose a case, and the majority to win, and that's what you do. If you're going to continue this progress method that the Workers' Party and the Center Party have now started, the municipalities will never settle down. And it's striking that when we first get a reversing proposal on the table, there are only two municipalities that take the trouble to come to Oslo to talk about their case, one of which didn't even agree with itself. I think the attitude of the Christian People's Party is tidy. They've had clear points of view, but they're saying that it's actually the majority that decides. The only thing you can achieve with this process is to stick chains in the wheels of those who are involved in good processes. I think SV said so clearly and clearly something that actually reflects the attitude of individual parties. They said that some people in small municipalities might think they have a good offer. Yeah, she can do it, actually. But that's not a good argument for all small municipalities to continue. If you're going to think about volunteering, you also have to take into account the fact that in all the processes there have been municipalities that want to join voluntarily, and someone who doesn't want to join. Who, then, should you listen to? So briefly on intercommunal cooperation: the representative Lundtigen points out that this is problematic with regard to Drammen and Lier. I've been Vice-President of the Drama, so I can cancel it. The problem is the inconspicuous nature of municipal and intercommunal cooperation, where we lose political control, and it is a symptom that we need larger and more robust municipalities. Finally, I think it is appropriate to quote the rapporteur in Bindal, who on the day she heard about the reverse decision, said that if they are going to open up to reversal, they must also think about how the small municipalities will survive financially. So they don't have the strength to survive financially. Then I would just like to congratulate the Labour Party and the Central Party on the decision that small municipalities should not survive financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1685	I think Engen-Helgheim should take a trip to Bindal and meet people there, get into how far there is between Bindal and the Namdal municipalities with Leka, and hear what they say. Then he realized that there was an enormous commitment in Bindal to pass as his own municipality. And if the representative had taken a break and talked to the rapporteur in Bindal, he would have realized that the rapporteur in Bindal was completely dismayed at how the Right Party and the Progress Party have dealt with that merger. So that the Progress Party takes Bindal to income for its case, it shows that the Progress Party has not at all intervened in the matter. The former Vice-President of the Drammen has not spoken to anyone in Bindal – doing so is a good advice on a general basis. There is a special day in Stortinget now, because the government's major project of achievement to merge municipalities with coerced communities is now being stopped, because in Decision I it is quite clear that future "municipal mergers in the 2017-2021 period are to be based solely on volunteering." And in II, as the representative of the Progress Party does not seem to have read either, it says that the income system should not be used to force its will through. There has been some criticism from the Central Party of this reform that changes in the income system have also been implemented, not to improve the services of citizens, but to bring together municipalities – costing what it will cost. Because in many of the small municipalities, people have been most satisfied with the services, have been most satisfied with the care of the elderly, but it has not been similar to the Progress Party and the Right, and then they have tried to push through their will through a change in the income system. It has been a fundamental undemocratic process called a democratic reform. Interestingly, the government itself ordered a report because they had to evaluate local referendums on community mergers. I hope the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party have taken the trouble to read that report, and that the Council of State Sanner has taken the trouble to read that report, because it is completely unappreciative of Sanner's priority method and Solberg's priority method – precisely the use of polls. And it is quite unambiguous: in no circumstances can polls be equated with referendums – while the government has had polls as its tool. This report recommends guidelines for referendums, not just guidelines for polls, as Mr Sanner, Mr Solberg and Mr Jensen wanted. So I hope that in the future we can have a more knowledge-based debate on community mergers, and that the government also reads the advice that has been given. It's a joy day because it's now going to end coercion. I'm glad Leka and Bindal will pass. I had hoped that even more people could get the freedom back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1694	This is about people, people's lives, the services they require, and the everyday life they live. I have to ask the House: is Norway a successful country? Are we the world's best country to live in? Historically, we were in 1837 392 municipalities. In 1931 we were 747 municipalities. In 1964 we were 454 municipalities. And in 2014 we were 428 municipalities. In the 1960s and 1970s we had major reforms, and now we are facing a new one. In the last few years, I have been with Øystre Slide Municipality through our work and their work on the community reform. The signals from the department were many and clear. We had to tackle the challenges we were facing, and look forward to them. I would like to point out that the municipality of Norway does this at any time. Østre Slide municipality, with approx. 3 200 inhabitants, and the local government, with 21 elected representatives, were involved in the reform work. We were aware of the challenges we faced — demographic development, risk to fewer people, lower birth rates, among others. The only thing we couldn't understand locally was that all of this would be solved if we joined all our neighbouring municipalities, where most of them have similar challenges. Land plans will not be easier to deal with and adopt in a larger municipality. Follow-up and organisation for different residents may not be easier in a larger municipality. Industrial development is a nationwide issue. After all, we want more jobs and greater value creation across the country. The Central Party then believes that proximity to resources through living people's rule, fair distribution and deliberate management must be taken into account. We believe this is best in small municipalities. One thing I can agree with, namely that the management and organisation of public service providers, public administration, is not logical everywhere – in different sectors, in different disciplines, in different services with many different types of breakdown and organisation. It's understandable that both the elected representatives, corporations and the crowd of the Nordics can be confused. But at the same time, we have an active administration and follow-up of laws and what we are entitled to in our country. Politicians reform just as it is, whether it is school, defense, police or other services in society. But now that the government wants to reform the way we organize the people's government, we have to keep our tongues in our mouths and know what we're doing. In fact, we are above the average for OECD countries in a quality of life indicator. These include: that we have to influence the decisions that affect us. The referendum in Øystre Slimre municipality was not recommended, but we got a good mandate, we refused to merge with the other municipalities in Valdres.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1707	The representative of Engen-Helgheim and the State Council of Sanner are still talking about the ‘reversing parties’. It's not to reverse, it's to want a different direction than a sharp right-hand turn. The center part represents a line that goes forward, and I want to stand up for that kind of empty rhetoric. The work on the community reform has been a strange sight. From being based on volunteering, it became increasingly clear that there was volunteering with coercion. I myself have followed the process as rapporteur until the autumn, and I must say that the real freedom of choice has been very limited when economic threats and changes have still been made on the part of the government, both in terms of deadlines and in terms of framework conditions. It has been the rule of this reform. The result is the map we see today – no bad solution for those who, based on ideological business thinking, cannot make units big enough. But for us who believe in a positive social development, believe in living communities – small and large – in flexibility, freedom of choice and the provision of room for local solutions, this has been a poor process. The Minister of Local Affairs says that the reform should continue because there is a need for still larger municipalities. Yes, exactly – that is, the rhetoric of volunteering in the beginning of this reform was precisely that: only rhetoric. It also shows that there are only ideological principles on the basis, not the consideration of living communities and equivalent services throughout the country. For the Central Party, the starting point is precisely that of living communities throughout the country. We believe that this is best done through local voluntary solutions. People themselves know best where the shoe prints. There is no secret that the Central Party is not very satisfied with this ill-founded reform and its outcome. It is now not defended by the Council of State – as I hear it – with real content and substance, but with an ongoing battle parade we have heard so many times before, ever since Elvis appeared in the 1960s, which the Council of State still refers to. I am pleased that the bulk of the population now determines that it should not be used more coercively, and I am pleased that the majority of the population determines that the income system should not be used as a breaker. It is in stark contrast to what the Minister of State said in his speech. This means – and I assume that the Stortinget takes the consequences of its own decisions – to ensure that residents in municipalities like Marker, Skiptvet and Rakkestad have the same security as coercive residents in the new Inner Eastfold municipality, or in formerly coerced Fredrikstad. Then we will ensure real freedom of choice, and then we will ensure local self-government and popular government. It's talking about calming down now. Now we have to give those municipalities peace to further develop their communities according to today's premise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1726	In the last four years, we have learned that this is not a reform based on volunteering and systematics. This is a reform based on coercion and arbitrariness. The process has been largely influenced by the fact that one has changed the rules of the game in the process. One has not listened to people and what people have said locally, and tried to make them avoid saying anything locally. One has also adapted and changed the financial rules in the process. All of this is what we really associate with arbitraryness, on the part of the state. We have experienced that in this process. That's why I want to focus on something that's good, and that's that the coercion for Leka and Bindal's part is being lifted today. That's good. It was a coercion that was not professionally recommended by the County. It was a coercion where Leka would have been treated differently from all other island municipalities in Norway. It would also have been a coercion that meant that Bindal had to change the county. It is very good that they are not coerced, and that Christian People's Party will have all credit for their participation. At the same time, it's hard to understand that not the same thing is going to apply to Vikna and Nærøy, because this whole process in Outer Namdal has been quite unyielding. The fact that not Vikna and Nærøy can also be released from the current process, and then possibly start conversations on their own keel and possibly try to get together voluntarily, is very strange. That they are now to be forced into a aggregation based on what the population is saying is no less than remarkable. It is also a pity that no other municipalities are given the opportunity to release coercion, because it is the coercion we are actually discussing today. That's this strange way of trying to overdo local democracy as we're discussing today. It was a strange experience to listen to the Council of State in the change of lines, because when it happens, the Council of State says that we have to listen to people locally. But when people locally don't do what the council says, the council says we don't have to listen to people locally -- we have to listen to the Storting. It is a typical example of what has been the characteristic of this whole process: the fact that one has chosen to adapt the arguments according to what fits the government parties. The government and the majority of the parties say that the reform should continue. But what is a point of light today is that the bulk of the population makes it quite clear that there should be voluntary action in the process, and that there should be no use of the income system as a break-up bar and economic force in this case. It also means that the bulk of the population has to stand firm and fall on any possible trick that this government will try to do, because they have done so in the past – and they are likely to do so in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1743	I noted that the Council of State said that there was no reform that was as well established as the municipal reform. I think I'm willing to have a debate on that. I can mention the pension reform, which was perhaps a little better worked out than this municipal reform that is under way here. But whatever the case, the execution has been completely miserable. It's been terrible, it's been. From the beginning to the present day, the government has managed to mess it over and over again. There have been changing financial assumptions. Suddenly, extra money appeared if the municipalities just joined forces. So it appeared in a series and a series of different financial gifts to those who just listened to the government. The other municipalities have had to pay for it. So it ends up in what I want to view as arbitrary coercion decisions. There is no system at all in the coercive decisions that were made. So that's the problem. There should be a lot of problems. Where did they go now? They're not there. Yes, if one ignores notary business, which is not a very political debate on the outside, I believe, and of course the important right of marriage, which enables the rapporteurs or those whom they authorise to dedicate themselves to people. It came. Then you talk about community economics. 13 of18 Østfold municipalities will receive less from 2018 than the wage and price rise. What does that mean, Councillor Sanner? It means cutting the services of the inhabitants of these municipalities. That's what that means. And then I see that there are even tougher times. State Council, today you take a click on both the income system and the volunteer line. Now the Council of State and the government have to deal with it being voluntary. It is a line in line with the National Labour Party Decision. That's the way we're happy. State councils must also be located away from the municipal border between Ås and Ski. It is tempting to say ‘strike three’.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1756	The President will recall that the statements are to be addressed to the President, not to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1762	In February this year the Christian People's Party sent out a press release. The party leader then clearly went into tough order and said that they would not participate in a coercion of municipalities. He said that a no from the people of a municipality should lead to a no to coercion. The Christian People's Party was against coercion in the previous period, and is against coercion in this period. But those who are coerced today obviously mean nothing to the Christian People's Party, because they're not going to reverse the decisions that were made six months ago. I thought the Christian People's Party was more concerned with non-discrimination. There I was obviously wrong. There is obviously a lot that has changed in a few months for the Christian People's Party, the party that has so far crossed the barrier of the election. The last measurements show that they are a good piece below the barrier, and you can wonder why it has happened. It is incomprehensible to me that once you have been on the volunteering line, you should not allow those who are forced into this reform to reverse those proposals. The words and promises of the Christian People's Party before the election seem to have little to mean after the election. It's disappointing, because this is about a lot of thousands of people. It's about local democracy, and it's about services near people. The citizens feel overwhelmed by politicians who are supposed to represent them at Stortinget, and I have a great understanding of that. It's just a shame that the Christian People's Party and the Left are now part of the government's centralization agenda. I thought the Christian People's Party was occupied with just local democracy and the volunteer line. Clearly it is not important today in this debate. We heard the Council of State earlier today. He clearly stated that this municipal reform will continue. I can't understand how the Christian People's Party can sit and listen to this if they're so opposed to coercion. This is not a good day for democracy, because it seems that you do not want to give the coercive municipalities the opportunity to reverse their decisions. The Christian People's Party could have done something about this, but they're choosing to divide by the government. The centre party is engaged in volunteering, in local democracy and in services being close to people. That is why we have just promoted this proposal, which unfortunately does not seem to have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1777	This has been a strange debate to listen to. There are more from the government parties – and also from the Left, in particular – that go up on the pulpit here now and almost makes it appear that all municipalities have now grown up, have many inhabitants, that it will be possible to recruit many professionals to these municipalities, and that this is solved, if that was the problem. But it's not like that. Some of the municipalities that were coerced were already quite large. We have very many small municipalities, some with many inhabitants, some with very few, some very remote, some very central. We still have a municipal map as diverse as what we had before, and we do because our country is like that. It is not – to put it that way – the size it depends on when to solve these problems, it is the willingness to give priority to these issues. So you sell this as something it's not, either democracy or everybody's grown up as somebody thinks they have to be. Then it goes on: are you going to force everyone, so that they get so big? I guess that's what we're going to see. So to this with intermunicipal cooperation. I have heard several representatives who have been up here, talk about how evil intercommunity cooperation is. But there is almost more between larger municipalities. So I wonder how factually resistant you can be to the facts in Kommune-Norway, that you have as much intercommunal cooperation between the big ones as between the small ones. You have to, and you're going to have to keep doing that after the round we've had now, even though the government parties get a majority for some of these coercion. It will in principle – in this case – not do anything from or to. That's the principle of coercion we should talk about. So until the problems that some municipalities are struggling with, that have relocation. So it's not about whether there's a stream here or there, or about some boundaries that were made years ago. It's possible that's the way between Oslo and Bærum, but that's probably not what we're now discussing, I guess that's not what we're going to solve. Then you have to solve it in a completely different way. Finally, the progress party was up here and clearly believes that nothing adopted can be reversed or changed. I'll notice. It's nice to remember in the future, when the Progress Party has to accept all the decisions that have been made in this Chamber. And finally, the Christian People's Party has now assumed an enormous responsibility to ensure that the majority that is being established today in relation to the two proposals is actually standing for the next three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1790	Boundaries are important. Between good neighbors there are clear boundaries, it's called. Stable limits are considered good. Boundaries between good neighbours have not, and are not, prevent reasonable cooperation and social cohesion. Of course, this is also the case with administrative boundaries between counties and municipalities. But the Right does not see any advantage with stable limits, although people locally find them appropriate. That boundaries have been stable over time because they have been reasonable and reasonable is an unsuspecting thought in our largest conservative party. The claim that borders have to be changed because they have been stable for a long time is a slight rhetoric. There are other reasons for change, but limits have been stable over time, not such a reason. I do not share the Right and Progress Party self-criticism about good and voluntary processes. The processes have been rough, the game rules have been changed along the way, the players on the Right and the Advance Party's orders have taken local rematches, and coercion has been used. The established municipal structure is chaos. Good local cooperation is effectively undermined by poor state processes. This applies, for example: municipalities such as Vågsøj, Selje, Bremander, Flora and Eid in Sogn and Fjordane. It would have been high odds in 2013 if someone had said that Selje and Eid would be a new municipality and Flora and Vågsøy a new municipality. They don't even have common limits. The approved municipal map does not hang in any group, either inside the state or between states. Finally, the time for rematches is over, right has said today. Does the Right Party mean that? Does the Right Party mean that the municipalities that have decided to continue as their own municipalities can now do so without more pressure, more coercion and attempts at rematches from government parties and statesmen? Or is it the case that merger decisions have a different status in the Right-Eye Party than decisions in which the party disagrees? Until this is cleared from the pulpit, this use of words is untrustworthy. Many point to the fact that the Right Party and the Progress Party support repeated rematches about municipal structure for years to come. If that's true, I think the party must have its backbone to be honest about it and tell you about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1801	Unpredictability has been a topic of debate. The centre party fully agrees that predictability is the best thing to do after, whether it's about what you meet the day you meet, the next year or the decade. It is conscious of us to reverse this issue, because we believe that the local People's Government has not been heard in the community reform as the work has now been done. For this fall we have had a big choice, and the elections are the forum where we ask the citizens of Norway to have a mandate to pursue our policies. The people have spoken. The government's policy they want less of. The mandate of the Government Parties has been weakened in Stortinget. It no longer holds with the support of either the Christian People's Party or the Left. Now both parties must support the government's policy to secure that majority. The people have spoken. The Central Party strengthened its mandate in Stortinget. We're an almost double group. We're chosen here to raise people's opinions, and we do. The government asked for local investigations, but I wonder to what extent the department and the council have read them, got into them, and founded them on their coercive mergers. Unpredictability comes when the government changes the income system. This is political governance of the framework conditions that municipalities have just in order to deliver on their tasks. As if the municipalities did not already have enough challenges, the Council of State will now present even greater challenges for municipalities to meet the ends – at least when they do not want to do what the Council of State thinks, even if this was perhaps the wisest choice for the municipalities concerned. The central party wants municipalities to be able to do so in order to enable the municipality to choose what is best for their development and future, and to make the future most predictable for them. Unfortunately, the government promises further progress of the municipal reform. I am happy Uppland has been spared this kind of decision until now, and will be vigilant and follow up on further decisions. Me and the Center Party want a local and living government. We're concerned that those who wear the shoe know best where it prints. Predictability is a good thing that we elected people have to facilitate. Our municipalities deserve to know what they have in store for the coming year and decade, and it must be anchored in what the locals – the locals – think is right. Democracy and democracy must not be taken for granted. The completion of the selection includes, inter alia,: Our responsibility, and I believe that the election results of the Central Party give every reason to understand that this reform should stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1822	The debate today is not really unexpected. We hear the frustration of the opposition to the decision today – how it works, and their lack of willingness to accept it. The opposition opted to reverse the municipal reform, and on 11 September the voters said no. Today, the majority say no to the reversal of the opposition’s zeal after reversing the legal decision. I am pleased with today's decision – so that it can bring peace, and that the municipalities can now look ahead and focus on producing good and forward-looking services in their municipalities. 119 municipalities will be 47 in a while. The reform is moving forward with Kommune-Noreg, and there is very good local leadership. The Party of Government, the Left and the Christian People's Party are looking ahead and will cooperate well to ensure that the reform continues in a good way. There are many good municipalities that want to continue working with the community reform. I have visited many people, and many people contact them. The Labour Party must be despondent – I understand them in the rhetoric today – who have previously gone to the elections on coercion and have nothing to do with this, and now must not be involved in taking responsibility for the community reform and development. If I don't think completely wrong, the representative Gahr Støre once said that he didn't like the municipal reform because one had the wrong incentives, and that the incentives to the municipalities were worse. When Lauvås here today talks about this being a gift money, and that he and the Labour Party today are opposed to the use of incentives, it's not entirely true of what Gahr Støre said earlier. I hope that we can get a good solution that will make the municipal reform come forward, and I am sure we will. All in all, today's decision that we're going to take, essentially a confirmation that the decision we made on 8 June, was quite right, it's only marginal changes that are being adopted here today. There are many people out in Kommune-Noreg who are happy, and we look forward to working on the important reform, which means a lot to a lot of people. Very many people are very positive about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1835	I've often wondered if the government is trying to challenge the illusionists, i.e. the magicians. ‘Illusion’ means an illusion of vision. It's making it look like a does something other than what a really does. The government's magic formula seems to be expert selection, expert selection, short hearings and coercion. And then the government's ministers like to smile and pull more centralization out of their hats while trying to get people to think that they see near-police, democratic reforms and 'robust' services. Centralisation seems to be the number one job for this government, and local reform has been an important part of the process. The 1995 decision on free will, which states that municipalities should have real voluntary status, has in many cases gone wild. Real volunteering – a lot of words and threats are used and forced to make volunteering not as real as it may seem in some cases. In this process, local democracy was reduced to a backdrop with little opportunity to influence the script in many places. The worst thing I think is that the local democracy that came with the presidential laws of 1837 is being eroded by the fact that those who live in a community are now being more cut off from making decisions as close as possible to themselves. "We have Bindal in our hearts," sang Christer Brønmo on May 1st in Bindal. It was an amazing arrangement to attend, how much the whole town had met, and where Trygve, our party leader, got a kick-off. It was quite clear that the bindings were on that day with the Senter party, and it was also quite clear that Bindal was on the team with the Senter party during the election. We became the largest party and got an incredible upturn. I am very pleased that Bindal can now choose for himself, and that the Christian People's Party has lifted that coercion decision. But it's a shame they're behind so many of the other changes that's happening now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1848	It's strange to sit and listen here today, and I'm a little bit in doubt if we have a discussion about the municipal structure, or if it's the coercive decisions we have a discussion about. It varies slightly from post to post, I think. Then I want to thank you for a great deal of trust from the Center Party and SV that the Christian People's Party will sort out about everything they agree on on on this front through. It's a trust we take quite seriously, because in terms of the volunteer line, and in terms of the income system, we really do have the comments we have. Then one can make some reflections on what is said about volunteering versus coercion. The Christian People's Party has been incredibly despicable in what we have said. Freedom line – we lost it, but we respected the decisions that were made, and we didn't go into the election campaign and said we would reverse it. It would have been incredibly easy for us to do, and one looks at some slight good voices that we could then take with us. But it would be a rematch on the municipal structure. We didn't. We actually also said that we would look at the special cases, and then it's strange that we're going to get criticism to look at the special cases. So this is a bit of a strange debate. Finally, I would like to make a reflection on whether the Council of State Sanner thinks that the Christian People's Party and especially the undersigned are particularly closely involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1859	The representative of Engen-Helgheim from the Progress Party said that I argued that intercommunal cooperation between Lier and Drammen was problematic. I didn't say that. My comment was to the representative Örmen Johnsen, the local political spokeswoman of the Right, who said that with intercommunal companies there was no proximity to the decisions, and there were decisions in the closed boards. It was a slaughter of intercommunal companies. The centre party is seaworthy for intercommunal companies, and I fully agree that the elected government of intercommunal companies needs to be improved. It's completely possible to improve it with conscious leaders. But what's interesting is what the government now thinks about intercommunal companies. The government argues against intercommunal companies, companies that are very important to population-sized municipalities, for example: Lier and Drammen. But will the Council of State take active action to continue or move towards more intercommunal companies? It seems to me that, in a final round here, the Council of State should clarify when the local government spokesmen of the Right have been so strongly opposed to such companies. I brought out Lier and Drammen, two right-hand-headed municipalities that have been hard to combine, but where the Right-wing rapporteur in Lier has been commendable on the maritime line. State Council Sanner further said that confusion is the alternative to change. That's why it's under coercion. I'm going to give Sanner the right idea that if you don't change, it's confusing. But everything that's alive is changing, and what's our task is the question of how we want to grow the plant that's called the municipalities. Right-handers believe in structural changes and centralisation. The center party has faith in something that we see as more important, and that many people are very concerned about, namely how municipalities are run. It's about organisation, culture and management, how we can give people who have professional roles in municipalities – teachers, nurses, case handlers – more power and authority so that they can do a better job in meeting their citizens. That's the big challenge. Here, there is a great deal to be gained in both better quality and more efficient use of public money. That's why there's a rough cover when the council says that weather is the option of coercion. Finally, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for having taken up the proposals for Decisions I and II. Thank you very much for the Christian People's Party. I notice that the Right and Advance Party do not support the Christian People's Party and the rest of the Stortinget. Therefore, it is essential that the Christian People's Party needs all the support in the future. I want a municipal political spokesman to travel all over the country and build up that support so that those decisions can become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1870	At the end of the debate, I must also be allowed to comment on a few of the more ingenious arguments that come from the Right and the Advance Party in particular. One is about inter-communal cooperation, as the representative Lundtägen was also involved. It was said from the Right-wing Representative here that some small municipalities had up to 40 intermunicipal cooperation. Yes, some large cities have up to 70 intermunicipal cooperation. Intermunicipal cooperation is a fact, and it's going to be a fact almost no matter what municipal structure this government imposes. In many cases it is both correct and necessary. It is not that the small municipalities have much more intermunicipal cooperation than the large municipalities have. It was also quite ingenious that the fact that we are now moving into digital society should be used as an argument for community aggregation. I think that's a little imaginative. While the main challenge of digitisation is not small municipalities and municipal structures, it is the government's unwillingness to expand the infrastructure needed to curb a digital class division. That's what's the big problem with digitisation. It has nothing to do with the structure of Norwegian municipalities. Then I have to say to the representative Trellevik that no, the centre party is not particularly frustrated, but we are quite aware of the coercion and the arbitraryness that lies in this process. In a way, the representative Trellevik contributes a little to the sea, because he says, first of all, to calm down on this process. Yes, it is quite up to the government, because what the government has said today is two things that are not compatible, namely that the time of the fights is over, but at the same time that the community reform continues. And what's in that? Should it still be coerced? Is that still going to be random? Will one continue to use the tricks you have used in terms of economic instruments? I am pleased that today's Christian People's Party is involved in establishing two important issues, namely that in the future, one should only relate to volunteering, and one should not use the income system of the municipalities as some kind of breakbone in the municipal structure debate. I am also pleased that the representative Bransdal was so clear on that from the pulpit in his previous post. It also means that together we have a great responsibility to ensure that the majority of people today fall down are respected by the government, and that one doesn't try new turns and new outer swings that put hookfoot on the big crowd actually says.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1883	The results of the elections in the autumn show that the municipal reform is very upswing, many have said in a slightly different way from the pulpit here today. It's a rather strange conclusion. There is no longer a majority in the municipal reform in this Chamber. There is no longer a majority to continue with an income system that premiums merged municipalities. Just the choice in the autumn shows that we don't want any more of this. Holm Lønseth said that at the election in the autumn people thanked no for the reversal proposal. There is no doubt that the central party was the party that was most obvious that we went to the elections on the reversal of the coercive proposals. I remember that we doubled the upsurge from the previous election. The representative Kapur was in the municipal economy and asked the Senterpartiet to take a factual check. Yes, the Center Party has taken a fact-finding. If you read the last issue of the Kommunal Report, it is stated in the KS’ own study that half of the Norwegian municipalities now have to reduce in 2018 due to the tight framework. There are hardly any municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants who have a development in line with or above the wage and price growth. A lot of the debate has been about wings. At least the centre party has stuck to volunteering all along, throughout the process, and supported all local decisions. Government parties have waved all the time in the process. They have gone from volunteering to whipping and carrots, they have gone from no infrastructure measures to new millions from year to year, a regional centre grant was introduced in the middle of this, and there was a change in the income system. And today they're angled again: now they're voting for the reversal of two of the municipalities, while they're not voting for the reversal of the rest. Trellevik says about what we call local democracy, that volunteering cannot be such that the municipalities can take decisions at their discretion. Then someone has to explain to me what local democracy really is for something. With regard to the Christian People's Party, I have to ask when they reverse only special cases, which we have heard here in the Chamber today: Is not Haram a special case, which is not an enclosed municipality, and where they do not want this? Isn't Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo a special case, where three municipalities have said no, three municipalities that all have well over 10,000 inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1899	Community reform, which is absolutely necessary, has one reason, and it is that we want our citizens well, that we want better quality of service. There has been little talk about this today, but today, too, we are fighting for the municipalities that had to be coerced for various reasons, which have come up here today. It's been 50 years since the last major change, and the introduction of nine-year-old school was the reason. Since this time the municipalities have been given a variety of statutory tasks, and if you want to manage all of these tasks, you have to have a certain size. That is also why several parties have gone to elections precisely on municipal reform, both the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party. The sad thing is that I find again that the Workers' Party comes with criticism and tough rhetoric, but some concrete suggestions on how to solve the challenges, I have not been able to get a hold of them. In the case of intercommunal companies, my concern is not the harsh services. Fire services, sweeping services, water, etc. can be safely and properly organised across municipal borders. It's the soft services that are the challenge. That's where the proximity to the population becomes important, that's where it's important to have robust, good and large trades unions and to be able to recruit. It's child protection, mental health, disabled people. How are we going to give users the best offer in the future? We believe in larger environments that can actually provide citizens with the services they deserve. The problem is not intermunicipal cooperation between Drammen and Lier, which are two large municipalities. That is not what we are discussing today. Today we are discussing small municipalities, municipalities that have a population of less than 1000 people. It's the challenges where I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1910	I also think it is strange that we are discussing essentially how long distances and how large areas the municipalities should have, and to a small extent, from several parties, how robust they should be, and how well rusted they should be to carry out the tasks they actually have. When I quote the rapporteur in Bindal, who on the same day they learned that this could be reversed, says that they need more money to stand alone, it is that they need more money than other municipalities because they are not sustainable enough to stand alone – not that they should be punished for standing alone. And I think that should be a cross of thought, that there are actually only distances to services, which you need to face less and less in order to get, and not the economy and sustainability of the municipalities. Then a major topic has been discussed, namely intermunicipal cooperation and intercommunal companies. No, it's not that cooperation is negative, but many have experience with unbridled and uncontrollable large intercommunal companies, and then there's not between large municipalities like this. The drama and Lier that's the problem. Nor is it because of the municipalities that these companies are established. Rather, it is because smaller municipalities in the areas around also want to benefit from economies of scale. That's why you have these intercommunal companies, which are hard to control. In Drammen – and many other places – we now see opportunities to gain control of these conditions and build up intercommunal companies and get them into the basic organisation where necessary. And in fact, I believe that it is still a symbol that we need larger and more robust municipalities when we have so many intercommunal companies without special control. I think that the reversing parties should notice to a much greater extent, rather than standing there making cheap points that there are long distances in some municipalities. For distances, it may not be much shorter if you stand alone, without the means to carry out the tasks you are required to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1925	Small municipalities do not have the opportunity to have the service offered by large municipalities, it has been said in this room. That's not exactly what we've been discussing. We have discussed whether respect for local democracy should be decisive when discussing aggregation or not. The centre party has been quite clear that the volunteer line is going to be stuck, and it is with pleasure that I record that it has a majority in this room today. For it is related to the election result, namely that the government has not been given a majority to continue coercion, no matter how much the representative Trellevik would be of that formation. Then it must be that I, who comes from a medium-sized municipality, must have had a poor service offer with bad teachers who have not been able to teach me how to count. But I don't know! And that doesn't have to be the case in small municipalities either. The accounting characteristics at least indicate that the government is seriously weakened and has not been given a mandate to continue coercion, precisely what this room says here today. The Council of State stated that the income system was ‘neutralised’, i.e. that the effects that would prevent aggregation – as a government council must assume – had been neutralised. It's a consideration that I don't share, because the income system is on the contrary just designed to build up under further aggregations. And that the incentives should be there -- yes, we can discuss the incentives we're going to use -- but it must be that if we're going to have respect for local democracy, which the council has been very busy about, then it's just local democracy that has to decide how they want to organise their services. So the government is implementing reforms at a staggering pace and number, and this has led to decision-making on the wrong basis. That shows the debate that has taken place here today. That is why these issues that we are debating today, these coercive mergers, they could, for good reason, demand resumption and have their cases reviewed on an independent basis. Respect for local democracy is not just a ownership that the Council of State can have alone; it seems to me to be in this room. In particular, those who fought for the community reform are so-called forward-looking, while those who have a rhetoric that says that local democracy must be allowed to decide here are called ‘reversing comrades’, etc. So there are obvious procedural errors, as the debate here today has shown, there are improper processes, dubious calculations and pure disinformation, which are now being tried to fathom under the carpet. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1938	It will be from representatives in this room, among others. from Engen-Helgheim, used terms as ‘reversing comrades’. Yes, it is never wrong to reverse the wrong policy, it is never wrong to stand up for local democracy, and I have to say that I like that company a lot better than to be part of the company with the ‘compulsory comrades’, who will force their will over Norwegian municipalities. It was said by the representative Trellevik that one should now calm down and look forward. Others talk about predictability. There won't be much predictability when representatives from the same parties, for example, the representative Kapur, say this is just the beginning. State Council Sanner says that the municipal reform should continue. In the past, a group of media opinions from the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party say that one will only have 150 municipalities in Norway. And in the case that was dealt with before the summer, for example on Lower Rome, where one is now going to strike together Sørum, Skedsmo and Fet with coercion, it said that this is just the first step on the road towards a larger municipality in Lower Rome. What is the planning horizon? What predictability does that give? No, the only real predictability to give to the municipalities is to tell the municipalities that, based on local considerations, you will be able to decide for yourself, based on local circumstances – based on local, democratic decisions, about your own future. Fortunately, the majority in this Chamber has stated that there is a voluntary nature that will apply in the future. And then someone's trying to use the result of the big shot as an argument that you've had the upswing of using coercion. Well, the right went back at the big shot. The progress party went back at the big shot. The left went back at the size selection. And the party that's a little bit uncertain about how they're going to deal with this with volunteering in all contexts, the Christian People's Party, went back in the big shot as well. If you're going to measure what people think about concrete mergers, you should at least look at what is made of local decisions in the municipalities that are affected. In my own municipality of residence, Sørum, there was a referendum on the issue of the election this year. 70 pst. Voter turnout, 60 pst. vote no! It should be «a special case» for the Christian People's Party to follow up. And to the same aggregation, we talked about reducing intermunicipal cooperation. The concrete merger, between Sørum, Skedsmo and Fet, will not mean that one reduces inter-municipal cooperation at all. The intercommunal collaborations that are, are either for all municipalities in Lower Rome, or between Lower Rome and Upper Rome, or between other municipalities in Rome. So it's an argument that's not related to the coercion that was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1953	The debate is coming to an end, and it would have been bold if we could have used this debate to clarify what is going to happen in the future. But I have to say that after hearing this debate, it is difficult to understand what both the Right and the Christian People's Party think about how local democracy will work and be used in the future. It seems like it's the randomness that's going to happen. In very many municipalities, referendums have taken place. The party of progress has for many years said that people's votes should be used more, and that they should listen to the people, but in this case we shall not listen to the people. I agree that this matter is about to reverse some unwise choices that were made before the holiday. It has to be allowed when it's become another large number. We had hoped that the Christian People's Party had thought as they thought in June and voted for the proposals they voted for then. We're recording that it's not happening. Then someone says that there are too many small municipalities in Norway, and that's why we have to merge municipalities. It's actually going to be a little bit of a deal. But how do we view this in the matter that we now have in front of us? You coercion municipalities that get almost 100,000 inhabitants, while there are a number of small municipalities with very few inhabitants that you haven't cared about. So what kind of line is it really government and government parties add up to? I find that hard to understand. But what's good about this matter today is that the bulk of the population – and I hope that it lasts through the vote – gives some clear leadership to the government about how to continue working. It is said that future municipal mergers, which the Council of State has notified of further work, should be based solely on voluntary activity. And not least, it is equally important, as is also stated, that the income system should ensure equivalence and that it should not be used as an element in the continuation of the community reform. There are two very important principles that the Workers' Party is going to build on in our work on municipal mergers in the future. We believe in volunteering. We also believe that municipalities need a better economy. I am absolutely sure that it can also be a good contribution to getting good solutions around the municipalities, but then the municipality's economy needs to be improved more than what has happened this past year. There are many municipalities that are in tough rounds to cut off the service they are going to provide to their inhabitants. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1968	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1973	Right-wing municipal policy spokesmen have thought about and are for intercommunal companies. That's good, because Drammen and Lier have a lot of them. I underline: very many. Then the municipal political spokesperson says it's okay for hard services, but problematic for soft services – child protection, psychiatry and disabled people. There's no fundamental difference. What is needed is better management of the intercommunal companies, and it is the responsibility of the local government to do so. Finally, I just want to say that today we lost the fight against coercion in the Central Party, but together with the Christian People's Party we won the war. I'm very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1982	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e1987	I stand behind Lundtigen's remarks at the end, and then I just have to comment on something: The Christian People's Party wonders whether we are discussing community reform or coercion. I just want to point out that the two matters are very close together. So a couple of perspectives that I've noticed aren't taken up enough, among other things. «district»: globally, the whole of Norway is a single large district. Even our cities are relatively small and scattered compared to other cities in the world. The right makes it clear that they want the inhabitants well, but not necessarily the public governance level. It's not on your fingertips. Intermunicipal companies, whether they are good or bad: this should lead to mergers of municipalities. The assessment the government is basing on, I don't think takes enough account of the values we can't measure in dollars and ears, such as volunteering, local involvement and local ownership. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2002	The county supervises the municipalities and sees whether they provide their services in this way, both large-scale, government and other public-sector agencies have established. When they give their recommendations to the municipalities that they can do this in a better way, or that they should join with other municipalities to improve their services, I listen to it. It's about taking responsibility for the weakest in society, who don't get the services they're going to get from their municipalities. It is because I have used this word as the representative Heidi Greni lacks an explanation of ‘admission’. I might be able to use another word, but it's a matter of the municipalities not following the recommendations of the County Council and rather of doing something else. There are many here who say that this is not listening to local democracy, and that this is not good. It depends a little on what things are actually about. It's changing here, I understand. The majority in this Chamber, the Centre Party, the Labour Party and a number of others, voted against the previous period when there were a number of changes, especially within the Planning and Building Act, which had given the municipalities much more power, and local democracy could have been heard in a much better context. This government listens much more to the municipalities in complaints than the previous government did. 80 pst. the complaints are supported, against 20 pst. I used to. So this is to listen to local democracy in practice, and it's probably going to keep going, too. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the debate. I don't think we've lifted the municipal reform, but it's not going to change very much after this debate and after the decisions we're going to make tonight. Yet: thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2015	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2021	Now I think it's the second or third time that Trellevik says he's listening to the County Council, but then maybe he should have listened a little to the county councillor in Rogaland, who has strongly advised against the merger of Forsand and Sandnes, which we're going to confirm here in Stortinget today, and who, on the contrary, has advised the merger that the municipality itself wants. The reason why I signed up for an article was that, surprisingly, the Council of State has not signed up for articles. The Council of State has not commented that the Stortinge will today take absolute voluntary decisions, and that the Stortinge determines that the income system will henceforth ensure equivalent services and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. The council has not commented that we have now pulled the emergency brake. Can the Council of State confirm that the time of the fighting is over, and that the municipalities can now do what the municipalities are supposed to do – calm down with regard to the municipal reform? Otherwise I must say that this is a joyous day. We have now received a new voluntary decision here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2030	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2035	I am a little surprised, because we are trying to discuss the proposals that are on the table regarding coercion, and then I must be allowed to ask the representative Trellevik about when he and the Right became so much happy in the County, which gives the impression, especially in the last post. To follow the recommendations of the County Council, which I believe Trellevik was very concerned about, I have to challenge the representative again: has the county council recommended the merger of Bindal, Leka, etc., or does this not lead to correctness? We have still not received an answer to that. To follow Right's rhetoric and argument here, the County knows better how things stand in the municipalities than the municipality's own local politicians do. That, I think, is a special conclusion to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2042	I think we should all be humble about the challenges we face in child protection, mental health, psychiatry and weak groups. These are challenges that not only can be found in low-population municipalities. These are challenges we find in all municipalities throughout the country. We find them in the municipality of the state council, Bærum, and we find them in the most populous municipality in Norway, Oslo. If we wanted to do something about the care of the most weak in our society and to strengthen the service supply to them, I dare say that merging municipalities is one of the least effective things we can do. We have the same challenges in all municipalities that are not merged, as in those that are merged, and we have the same challenges in people's rich municipalities as in low-population municipalities. I thought — with all due respect — that it would be a little superficial to push weak groups ahead of themselves, in relation to the challenges that actually exist, when a draft brings together municipalities as a kind of sesame sesame operation to ensure that this is improved. There is a need for more targeted tools than the size of the municipality structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2051	Let me just say to the last speaker that it's not about pushing weak groups in front of it, it's about taking into account everyone, no matter where you live. No matter where you live in Norway, you should have good services, not least the most vulnerable among us. This is what this is all about, not least at a time when we know that there are several older people – several of the older ones – the oil revenues are going to fall, and the expectations of the population are going to rise. It is the demanding challenge facing local politicians. That's what's also the driving force behind the commitment to the Commune-Norway, from local politicians from all parties. It is not that the municipal reform is a party political project. It is driven by forward-looking Central Party, Labour Party, Right-, Advance Party, Left- and Christian People's Party rapporteurs because they are occupied by their inhabitants. That's what this is about. So it's not right, as the representative of Mr. Greni said, that I haven't commented on what it says about volunteering and income systems in the attitude. I have done so, and I have said that the Council of State is of course aware of what is going on there, and the Council of State is going to follow it up – of course. At the same time, I also know that there is a majority in this Chamber who want the municipal reform to continue. I know that local politicians from the Central Party and the Workers' Party are waiting for a clear signal to get started, because they're busy with their inhabitants. Let me end with a quote from the Central Party rapporteur in Re kommune. He said it like this: ‘I believe that citizens are more interested in having good schools and the best possible care for our older people than in doubting the external borders of the municipality.’ It's the development force that's going to drive the municipal reform in the future. There are many municipalities that are happy today that the time of the fighting is over, now they are allowed to start building a new municipality, now it is the end of the turmoil that some have created. That is why I look forward to the Storting making its decisions today, so that local politicians can do the important job for their citizens: building new municipalities. Then we will continue the municipal reform, because it is important to take care of the strong Norwegian welfare municipalities – of course within the framework that Stortinget draws up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2065	Sigbjørn Gælsvik has held the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2070	State Council Sanner says that there are local authorities waiting for a clear signal to proceed with a municipal merger. No one is preventing municipalities that want to set processes in motion in order to merge. It has not been in force in this magnification period, it has not been in force in the previous one, nor has it been in force in the period of the red-green government. At the same time, it was also the initiative for community mergers, but on the basis of local initiatives. Of course, if municipal politicians want to merge, they should be allowed to do so, but what the Council of State has to do with it is that a majority in this Chamber has said that there is a voluntary nature to apply. That means that the Council of State and the Government have no opportunity to force municipalities, against their will, to join forces. That's what the Council of States has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2077	With all due respect – I don't think of it as a major change, because the reality is that the municipal reform in this period has built on good local processes and volunteering. At the beginning of the previous ageing period, there was a broad majority who said that exceptions could be made in very special cases. It took the majority of the consequences of the previous period, and it was done in some specific individual cases. Then there was in particular one party that was running an entire electoral campaign on reversal. When it came up in Stortinget, there were two municipalities who came to the hearing. Today, there are two municipalities, which together consist of under 2,000 inhabitants, who will no longer enter a merged municipality. But the reality is that the municipal reform stands, and we are going to continue, because it is important for citizens and important for the sake of maintaining strong welfare municipalities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2082	Now we've been sitting in this room for quite a while and heard a lot of posts from both sides, and I wonder if the Council of State has been present in the same room as myself, because it has been well explained here that this municipal reform is far from being built on good local processes of volunteering. It has been pointed out, among other things. that the income system has just been misused to force municipalities to merge, it has been pointed out that a number of municipalities have merged against their own will, and that is exactly what we are here discussing today. It has also emerged that there is not really a majority in the UK to use coercion further in the community reform. The Christian People's Party is not too coercive, and the Stortinget has stated that, as the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner does not have a majority for his will to coerce into municipal reform in the future, so that the Council of State stands here and assumes a role as the saving angel of local politicians, I find it remarkable to hear after the long debate we have had now. The community reform is under compulsion, it is overrun by local democracy, and I hope it stops here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2089	I would very much like to help extend the meeting very much, but what I reacted to is the concept of the ‘abuse’ income system. It's the Storting that decides what kind of income system we're going to have. The size is democratically elected, and it is such that a Council of State follows up the decision of the Grand Duchy. The income system for which there was a majority in Stortinget was about removing the punishment on municipalities that chose to join, making the income system more neutral, and we have also, together with our good cooperation partners in the Christian People's Party and Left, made sure that the municipalities have had a good income development – yes, actually, a better income development with the budgets of the cooperation parties than it was when the red-green led Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2094	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2100	I think it's quite clear here that the State Council Jan Tore Sanner and the Center Party have two completely different realities and descriptions of reality. The signals I get from a number of municipalities are that they experience that the income system has been changed in a way that makes it very difficult for them to handle their budgets when they have chosen to stand alone. The transformation of the income system that has taken place has been fully targeted with a view to bringing more municipalities together. I don't think the council should hide that, but take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2105	The representative of Marit Arnstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2110	I think it is most remarkable that the Council of State here at the end is at the head and later as if he has managed a process that is almost a kind of cosy process – a pleasant process in which all the rapporteurs have been positive. That's not what's true. We all know that here the government has changed the rules of the game along the way. It's a process built on arbitrariness, it's a process built on a reluctance to referencing, and unwilling to listen to the local advice given. It is no coincidence that this case has produced major reactions beyond the Commune-Norway, and it is therefore also important that the Stortinget today clearly states that future processes should be based on voluntary activity, and no new tricks should be used in terms of the economic system and the income system vis-à-vis the municipalities. But what the Council of State says now at the end shows how important it is that the bulk of the population must stand together and be on guard against all sorts of curvatures that the government is going to be able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2115	It is quite natural that there are discussions about the income system of both municipalities and counties. We also had a big discussion about the income system of the county councils, which we changed from 2015. Then it had been almost unchanged since 1990. The same is true of the income system for municipalities. It has to be updated at regular intervals, and we're going to keep doing that. A change in the income system was made, and this meant removing the disadvantage it entailed for municipalities that merged. Municipalities that were merged were punished, unlike those who chose to stand alone, who were then supported. It's a natural part of the political change of words, and it's the Storting that decides what kind of income system we're going to have. It is a reality that almost 100 municipalities have come up with voluntary community mergers, and I believe that local politicians from all parties, including the Center Party, deserve honor and support for the important job they do. Then it's quite fair that we disagree on a handful of mergers, where it's national decisions, but today, the Storting largely confirms the decisions that the previous one made as late as June.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2122	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2138	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given from the main figures of the parties and five rows of replies from members of the government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2149	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on rapid progress in this matter. No further uncertainty has been gained as to how the division of the counties should be from 2020 onwards. Today we are discussing seven proposals from 29 representatives in total on this matter. The seven proposals can be divided into three categories. It is the SV’s proposal to establish a mechanism to apply to continue as a country of its own. It's the most principal thing. Furthermore, it is the proposal of the Centre for the reclassification of decisions, in practice the reversal of all aggregations of counties, with the exception of Tributes and Agder. It's the most conservative thing. Then it is the Labour Party's proposal relating to five new county municipalities and assessments in each case. It has created a little debate on the new Viken County. In summary, none of the proposals receive a majority. New division of counties was adopted in the Grand Duchy on 8 June of this year, six months ago, based on a written agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. These four batches agree that the agreement is still in force six months ago and that Norway is to be subdivided into new counties from 2020 onwards. We must now focus our efforts on the future and the tasks that the public must do. A broad majority in the UK agrees that we should spend a lot of resources on the public sector. Today, more than half of the workers in Norway are employed in the public sector. There is also a broad consensus that we should have a public sector divided into three actors, three levels: municipalities, counties and states. The oil price shock came to us two years ago. It is a reminder of how important it is not to become static, either in the private or in the public sector. We need to move fast with the green shift and get new income and nutrient base in Norway, and we need to move fast to meet strong growth in the proportion of older people over 80 years from 2025. The years ahead are fast. The change and adaptation of the municipal sector was and is now in progress. We need to use the resources well and efficiently to provide the most needed, the best possible help. So there is a debate on structure, but fortunately also – I feel – a forward-looking and broad desire to discuss what tasks the new states will contribute to building a good and strong public sector in future Norway. I'm looking forward to that problem. There is already a set of tasks in the agreement between the four lots. Then there's an expert committee that's also going to give us some advice on the way, and that's going to deliver it in February. Furthermore, we need harmonisation of the state sector in Norway. The population is now divided mainly by borders corresponding to the new counties. Today, the country operates within borders of more than 40 geographical divisions, and it does not harmonise with the current number of counties or the new counties. It is enough to mention health enterprises – which are divided into four regional health enterprises – as an example. So we need to clear up a little bit of the public ceiling in Norway. It is also about creating a competitive edge for the future. Exports today constitute 40 pst. of gross domestic product. In my region, the Gjøvik region, each person employed contributes export income of NOK 303 000, on the Tynset of NOK 61 000. The resource base is different, and we're not going to discuss those differences today. In many ways, we'll smooth them out. But it's not natural that there's a car from Raufoss in every car in the world. It's culture, it's people who have created that competitive power there, and we have to make sure that we have that competitive power in the future. It's also about the state agency, and we're using it properly and efficiently. It's also about what we're going to do with Nordic cooperation, and how we're going to use it in the future. Several parts of Norway are now bordering Sweden. We need to use this to increase cooperation with the rest of the Nordic region to ensure the strong welfare position that the Nordics have worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2170	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2175	In several contexts, the left has said that there is a broad consensus to add new tasks to the regions. The Workers' Party has made several proposals for tasks to be transferred. The list is pretty long. However, the Left has voted against, at the latest at the time of the treatment of the Innst. 385 S for 2016-2017 in June this year. What are the tasks left when all the Workers' Party proposals are down?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2180	Thank you for the question. Now several governments and several majority over time have been aiming to give more tasks to the counties. The red-green government also had ambitions for both fewer states and more tasks. Some road administration was transferred to the counties. This was especially the responsibility of the highways. That's good. That's a good start. Then we have to move on. Now we have said, the majority from June, that we should also look at a number of new tasks. Then we have an expert committee that is now set up and working and that will deliver a report in February. The time has not come to say concretely what tasks the counties are going to have, but that we are going to have an intermediate level that represents a greater part of public GDP, and which thus also has a stronger development force, that is quite clear. Then we'll have to take these discussions the next year towards new elections in the new states in 2019. And then both new tasks and new elected representatives will be in place in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2191	The harvest's choice was exciting. At last it was about the issues of the parties and we as candidates stood for. For me and the Central Party, the struggle for the rule of the people and respect for the decisions made in the county of our counties, and in the representative Kjeseth and my county, Uppland, was decisive. The states did as the government asked – they investigated, looked at challenges, opportunities, benefits and disadvantages by standing alone or joining forces. Based on good professional investigations, they found that they would not vote for aggregation. Nevertheless, the Left is convinced that this is the way to go. I wonder if they know something about the people elected to rule the states every day – including the state we represent – they don't know. I wonder: does the representative, Kjeseth, feel that he has a strengthened position in the further work on the regional reform, or has the decision of the fall after all changed the balance of power and weakened the mandate of the Left in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2200	The representative, Kjeseth, has registered over a 15-year period in Uppland that the Central Party has agreed to go well because the Hospital Inland and Fagskole Inland have been established. Now we've got the Inland College. All these joinings in Hedmark and Uppland are the Center Party and the Workers' Party that have been in charge. I do not know whether the representative Knutsdatter Strand feels that it has been upset by the electorate of the Centre Party, but I have registered that this has happened. Then I register that the Left did not make a decision in Uppland, but I think it might not have been for the reason that we are to establish the Inland for which there is clearly a majority in the Central Party. And when the Center Party feels that one has won a choice to establish a joint hospital in a region that one says is larger than Denmark, which has 16 hospitals, I'm not so sure that's what led to the fall-off of the Center Party, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2207	There's a large majority on the Biggest that's to keep a state level and to strengthen it. But that majority does not really belong to the Progress Party and the Right. The two parties will put down the county council and have said that the reform we have been dealing with is a step on the road. My question to the Left is: what is the reason why the Left will not be with the parties who say that they want to keep this level, find new tasks, do not remove regional policy instruments and tasks such as dental, public transport and secondary school from the county level? Why does the Left choose partnership with those who want to put the county down and say that the reform is a step in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2214	The left also participated in the formation of a majority for the regional and administrative reform for which the red-green government joined in 2007. There would be a large-scale reform on behalf of the states, with fewer states and lots of tasks. It was a hard try, but it stranded, and we stood back that the tasks were essentially the administration of the highways, and then it became the administration of some royal crabs, but it is not exactly in large parts of the country. There is no contradiction between moving with the Right and the Advance Party as long as they accept it, and also having the red-greens on the team to create the tasks for which there really is a large majority – a desire to have the intermediate level in the Norwegian government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2219	The Left's representative today is talking a lot about all the tasks that are to come. The left has talked a lot about until now as well. I and a lot of people with me don't really understand yet, despite the fact that there have been various wretched explanations, why we couldn't wait to add the structure to the problems were clear, so we had dropped all the noise. Maybe a lot of people had seen the value of this. Can't the Left give me some good reasons why you're going to rush around the world so strongly this with structure? I don't understand. It would have been so much better for Norway, for all the states as it is, if we had waited and seen if this was valuable enough, and that the left could see if it was valuable enough, and then we might have dealt with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2225	I understand that the Center Party thinks it's best to stand still, and that we spend as much money as possible on a static administration. If the representative looks back at the red-green government's attempt to implement administrative and regional reform, it tried on the tasks and then on the structure. So nothing really happened to the problems, and so the structure fell into fish. Now we take this with the structure and the statesmen first, because that's what it stranded on when the countymen stood here in the lawn and demonstrated against a regional reform they wouldn't be on. Now we've taken the statesmen and organized them differently. The counties and the structure are in place, and we're filling up with the problems. There's a certain dynamic in it. I'm sorry we're looking forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2230	If I understood correctly, we need larger regions to increase competitiveness. So the logic was that Tynset would get more competitive by lying in the same region as Raufoss. That is, Hallingdal will gain more competitiveness by lying in a border region with a short distance to the continent. I don't understand this logic. In that case, it must mean that the Left must physically move Hallingdal closer to the market. I'm a little uncertain about whether we have room in Eastfold. Or what is that really Kjeseth and Left mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2235	Although both the Left and the Centre are opponents of Norwegian membership of the EU, I think it is a good idea to look out in Europe and see what competitive regions contribute to industry. It is a challenge for Norway that they use the tax system to introduce instruments into their systems, while in Norway we are working with strong business neutrality. That's what we're doing to create competitiveness. That doesn't mean we're going to increase the competitiveness of Tynset. We're going to distribute this based on what's natural resources. There are, of course, possibilities there as well. Fortunately, new opportunities are being built on Tynset, among others. related to a digital health archive, which was passed on to the Left for being added to Thinset, which was never added to the Centre in eight years. When the Østerdalen gets its order and gets a green data centre in addition, the competitiveness of that region is also increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2240	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2245	The Labour Party wants strong regions under direct popular governance – regions to have a leadership in cooperation with municipalities, businesses and government. Strong regions should assume more tasks in sectors such as transport, education, research, industrial development, culture and the environment. It is also important that regions retain their tasks in the fields of school, health, public transport, the environment and dentistry, among others. Regions need to have a stronger societal development role, and regional plans should and must be strengthened as development tools for the best interests of society. The Labour Party is in favour of local and regional processes in which the counties consider to merge into larger regions. Like the municipal reform, this must also be anchored locally and regionally, and it must be based on volunteering. We note that there is now a great deal of concern about the merger that the government has carried out with the Left and Christian People's Party and is now implementing through today's decision. The Labour Party has shown that the decisions taken on 8 June 2017, with the exception of the merger of Aust-Agder and Vest-Agder, were taken in breach of its own decisions. During the consultation carried out by the Committee, several questions were raised about the logic of the new County Classification Stortinget adopted. The decision that was taken leads to even greater differences between the counties in terms of both population and geographical extent after the reform. Examples of this include: that More and Romsdal, with their 266,000 inhabitants, who lose two municipalities, Halstad and Rindal, will continue to stand both as their own counties and will be robust enough to perform the new and larger tasks on behalf of their citizens, while for example: Akershus, with 604,000 inhabitants, is not robust enough to perform its own tasks and new tasks on behalf of the inhabitants of the county, but must coercion with Buskerud and Østfold and become 1.2 million people in the number of inhabitants. When you look at Finnmark and Troms, it's almost 75 000 km 2, i.e. a quarter of Norway's land area, and it's over 1,000 km east of Finnmark to the south of Troms, so you can see that there are strong reactions coming from Finnmark. Trondheim–Oslo tur-return is approx. 100 miles. It is difficult to see how this new state can perform its role as a good local community developer, where citizens are close to services and participate in local democracy, which ensures better participation than before the reform. The Labour Party would point out that, in the case of the decision of the Storting on the coercion of Finnmark and Troms, Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, Oppland and Hedmark, Vestfold and Telemark, Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold – the latter which now becomes the Viken region, with nearly 1.2 million inhabitants – are all opposed to the merger. All these coercive mergers are carried out without any proposal for decentralisation of tasks and strengthening regional planning, which would in a way justify such a low-popular reform as the one now adopted. The alleged new and stronger role of the county councils as a social developer is not designed in any way and is strongly underfunded. On the other hand, the government has proposed to weaken the responsibilities of the county council by opening up the transfer of the public dental service to the municipalities and by allowing larger municipalities to have partial responsibility for public transport. The Labour Party understands why the government wants to reduce the tasks of the county council, as the Right and Advance Party are at a municipal level. This will in a way be the first step towards lowering the regionally elected level. The Workers' Party cannot avoid pointing out that on several occasions the Christian People's Party has expressed itself critical of the establishment of the Viken region. During the throne debate in Stortinget on 10 October this year, the leader of the Christian People's Party stated that a region from Hallingskarvet to Halden is not optimal. Later, representatives from the Christian People's Party stated that if you were to redraw the map, you would not have had the Viking region as it is today. It's true that we had to look at this again, with new eyes, and had to leave the reform behind. However, the Labour Party is committed to ensuring a powerful regionally elected level, which can have more tasks and better opportunities to facilitate jobs and activity across the country. We believe that the government together with the Christian People's Party and the Left weakens this work through the way the reform is driven forward. With that, I would like to address the suggestions that the Workers' Party is in the section on page 7 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2269	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2276	The representative, Asphjell, was inside the Viken, the merger of Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold, and was within size. I would like to remind the representative of Asphjell that first the Workers' Party was in Buskerud County Municipality for Viken, one was in order to merge to get a larger and stronger region. But then the Workers' Party turned around, and later again the Workers' Party thought that maybe one could divide the Week into two – it has also been a suggestion – with an eastern and a western part of Akershus. So I think now, what does the Workers' Party really think about the Week, if you're going to put all the rhetoric around? How do you view state reform as such?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2281	The clear position of the Workers' Party in this respect is that these three counties should remain as separate counties. For the reform itself by drawing a new map without adding new tasks, there is no reform; it is just a description of what the map should look like. That's why we've been very clear about it. In other words, after several meetings, I understand, both in Buskerud, in Akershus and in Østfold, that if it was not possible to have a primary wish with three independent county municipalities, that one could look at the possibility of sharing it, so it would not be as inappropriate and as large as it now seems to be. But I understand that there is no majority for here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2288	The problems have been handled, and now we see how the Workers' Party – affordable enough – tried to make a regional reform, but that did not work. Now let's do it another way. But let's just say hypothetically that you got out the problems that the Workers' Party was satisfied with. Would it have been possible to go in for this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2293	The Labour Party is very clear that we want a strong, popular region, but with significantly larger tasks than it is today. There are therefore several municipalities that do not want these mergers, because the government has not arranged for one to have new tasks to strengthen the regionally elected levels. That is why we cannot answer it without the government putting it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2298	There have been attempts to make statements about these reversals. There are many representatives who are involved in the proposals, and in the states concerned, in general, led by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, there are now attempts to break negotiations, and one should have asked the Council of State for mediation. But one doesn't really get the whole people on the team. There is no popular uprising against re-dividing Norway. So this is going to be a movie report that maybe gets dice throw 1 out of what it gives of digestion. Is the representative of Asphjell satisfied with what this show we've seen in the last few months brings of energy into the new states?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2304	I'm from Trøndelag. There the process has gone very well with the background that it is the Workers' Party that sits with the power, together with several parties, in both the old states, the North and South Tributes. There have been good local processes, voluntary processes. We have already delegated and decentralised tasks from County to County, from Trondheim to Steinkjer. These processes have taken place on a voluntary basis, and then provide a good basis for local democracy at regional level. We have the same thing in the Agder counties, where there's a lot of consensus. But if this is about coercing states without local anchoring, it doesn't lead to anything good.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2311	I have recorded that Tøndelag has been out early and gone ahead to lead into a new division of Norway, without necessarily getting so many problems into the pot to go that way. Similarly, Hedmark and Oppland, run by the Workers' Party over a 15-year period, have also gone through the same process with a view to coordinating quite a number of tasks and services for which a person is already responsible. This applies to Theater Inland, the Trade School Inland and many other actors that you have joined together and assigned the name Inland, which you are now discussing is the correct name of it. So what's separating the Tree Layer from the Inland? Is that the time? Is that the problems, or is it simply that you can't do it on your own?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2318	I'm not going to answer why Uppland and Hedmark have a slightly different approach than what the South and North Tronde Teams have had. But South and North Trondelag have been working on this idea for many, many years – before the coup d'état became a reform. And that's what has laid the foundation and created the ground for good cooperation between the two states across the parties, and not least the common culture and common historical heritage we have. I think that's what's at stake. But we in the Workers' Party are committed to listening at the local and regional elected levels, what wishes and needs they have. Upland and Hedmark have said clearly that they do not want to merge, and we are listening to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2325	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2330	Rematching is a well-known exercise in politics as well, and the issues we have now dealt with related to municipal reform and regional reform are the opposition's exercise in rematch. These are seven reversing proposals that will restore our country to a structure for yesterday's service provision, and will not be suitable to meet tomorrow's needs and challenges. It's a rematch I'd like to be in addition. On 8 June, the majority of the majority of the population decided to continue a popularly elected level between the state and the municipality. The majority decided on a new division with eleven counties, including Oslo, and in my part of the country we finally managed to remove the border between East-Agder and West-Agder, after years of discussion and struggle. A larger and stronger county municipality will increase the growth power of the south, and it is lagging behind. The decisions that were made on 8 June were secured by good cooperation between the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we see the same thing today. The primary position of the right hand side and the forward hand side is well known. But politics is not just about conflicts, it is about cooperation and about compromises. We have a state structure that has remained unchanged in human memory, and if you really think about how much society has changed in this period, it's easy to understand that our demands for services today have changed radically. With the new division from 8 June, we will have a good and forward-looking basis for further development of county municipalities, a better balance between the counties, more functional housing and labour market regions and a basis for developing stronger professional environments. Major counties provide the basis for taking new tasks and responsibilities, and we are also many in the Right who look forward to the recommendations of the Committee of Experts in the New Year. In the right we are also concerned that larger and fewer county municipalities will involve reduced administrative expenses. It is money and resources that can be used to strengthen the service provision to our citizens. The decision taken today by the Stortinget shows, in spite of gloomy predictions from the opposition, that there is still support for the government's regional reform. Now we have to be calm, so that the new counties can move on in their development work, and that's actually in the grave's time, because soon there will be full pressure on work on new tasks. The government is working on decentralization. It implies that power and tasks are transferred from state to municipality and county, and that the role of county municipality as a social developer is to be developed. It is almost a paradox that the government is implementing what the Center Party is talking about – the government is strengthening local democracy. The central party is talking about it, the central party is talking about shifting power, but the government is delivering. Stronger municipalities and counties are now given more responsibilities and opportunities to provide better services. How are the Centre Party and the Workers' Party supposed to strengthen a service offer when they are primarily committed to maintaining a 60-70 year-old structure, a structure both parties have already agreed to be out of date? The Heidi Greni of the Central Party was quite clear in the debate in June when she said that: ‘The struggle of the Centre Party against the government’s major centralisation reform and the strong local resistance will contribute to a government shift to the autumn’. It wasn't like that. Several attempts have been made to bring about changes in the state structure over the years without success. Now the county councils have strengthened their capacity and competence to raise tomorrow's challenges. And here we are all concerned that we should ensure our citizens good services, in the countryside and in the city, even in the future, to ensure the well-being of our communities. With the examination of these matters today, a final sentence is now set for all the speculations about reversal in this case. Now the work can start by building the new states, and it can start too fully. We don't have a day to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2359	The right has previously voted against proposals for concrete task transfers to the new counties promoted by the Workers' Party in this Chamber. But in the setting right now writes that a number of tasks, such as: in the fields of transport, competence and education and industrial policy, shall be transferred to the counties. I hear the representative talking very nicely about more tasks and more responsibilities, but can the representative now give a concrete explanation of the tasks that they themselves mention in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2364	As the representative of Lauvås knows, work is currently in progress on setting up the new structure. A colleague said to me: I do not buy the sofa until I know which living room it should be in. That's actually a good way to put it. Because when these major reforms are implemented, it is enough that the structure and tasks need to be adapted to each other. Then it is not unusual that things have to develop hand in hand. The whole point of implementing regional reform is to get more tasks out, find a level of administration that can handle the tasks of our citizens for the best, so that we ensure that we develop the skills we need, the infrastructure we need, the support device for economic development that we need out there will be put into practice when the expert committee now presents its... [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2371	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2376	State Council Sanner, in her letter to the Stortinget – and in so far as the representations are concerned – says that today’s county councils have different geographical sizes and different levels of population. It's just a confirmation of a fact that is so far true. But the Council of State also believes that through the merger we get a more even distribution of the population between the counties. The result of the county reform is, on the contrary, greater differences in population and geographical size. We get the Viking with 1.2 million people, and we carry on my own county, Nordland, with 240,000 people. Not least, we have received a decision that says that a quarter of Norway’s land area should be collected in a merged Troms and Finnmark. My conclusion is that balancing differences in population and size is clearly no longer a justification. Does the representative agree that there is no longer any justification, or does the representative agree with the Council of State that there is still a justification?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2390	As the representative of the Central Party knows very well, we live in a country that has a geography of mountains and fjords, of vastness, of city and country, and we're going to make a level of state to suit it. We have traditions, we have history, we have culture, and we have to sort of focus on all of these aspects. That's right, as the representative says, yes, we get some big units. He has pointed to the Viken, and he refers to his county, Northernland, at the opposite end of the scale. But then we have examples like Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, which now go together and grow bigger, we have my own homelands, East and West Agder, we have Telemark and Westfold, so we get more regions that are in the middle size. Then there is not just one aspect that can be taken care of when building the new municipalities. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2397	A good principle when organizing something should be that you know what to use it for. What's the problem with this reform is that here you make an organization first, without knowing what to use it for. But the starting point and offer from the government was to remove the central services of the county. Dental health, even public transport and secondary schools, which are the core services of the county municipalities, should be able to take over large municipalities. And in addition, this government has halved the regional policy instruments that regions might be able to do some sensible work. So the representative says that now we're going to start the service offer. Does this mean that we can be sure that these core tasks that the states have today will no longer be touched?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2404	We are concerned that, in creating municipalities and structures for the future, there is also a need to be open to change tasks. This means that some problems are best solved in counties, some are best solved in municipalities – it may be slightly different. We are concerned that we need to facilitate good structural development in the new counties, in the regions, therefore the strong movement rate. The development of skills and education, which the representative was involved in, is not only about higher education, general education, professionalism, but also about higher education, education and professional environment, in the professional field, building good environments of competence that can help spread – I kept on saying – the level of competence throughout the region. In our state, or in our region, we've seen how crazy a lot it has meant that we've got strong universities and strong vocational education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2409	The government parties repeatedly say that the new states need to grow to accept new tasks. I want to remind the representative that exactly the same states not long ago had a difficult task, namely the hospitals. Why, then, is it a prerequisite for getting bigger to accept new tasks, other than hospitals? Do you have a professional or research evidence for this, or is it pure ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2414	This is about how we can structure a good offer out in the regions. We see that in areas like transport, such as tackling climate challenges, and in terms of facilitating growth in employment and business, we need to work across larger areas than in individual municipalities. With us, we have seen very well what it has meant that we have developed closer cooperation between the Agder counties and have expanded the working and housing regions down there. It means a lot when you're in vulnerable situations, like us, for example. has been in the period we have now, with poor finances and unemployment. It means a lot to develop complex and strong job opportunities, and this can help good and strong regions to facilitate and facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2419	I have to say that the argument that we need these big regions to transfer more problems is a little bit of a gap. Therefore, it is a little strange to record that we had a hearing just before the fall of Stortinget to transfer the management of the water environment from the county municipalities to the state, from the planning and building law to the state, despite the fact that research by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research shows that water management in Norway has been very successful in its implementation. Why in all days do you choose to move a task from the county level to the state level?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2424	After all, the centre part has been involved in making changes in the county structure for periods of time, without the red-green setting being able to implement it. I guess one of the reasons for this has been that you saw that there were problems that were both to be solved and could be added. That you have discussions about which tasks should lie on which level at different times, I think it's reasonable. And now when we're going to have the big review of new problems for the states, of course, it comes with full pressure. I want to say one thing I forgot to comment on instead, it went on with the regional development funds. Regional development funds have been so important, but it has been so important to allow the counties to make use of the means to build infrastructure, to strengthen the roads and other things here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2431	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2436	Over several decades, the political debate on today's county councils has been going on, and in June, the majority of the majority of the Grand Duchy has been changing the number of counties, following an agreement between the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. We have adopted fewer but stronger states. The new breakdown facilitates a more holistic development of society and is responsible for several tasks. The tasks to be transferred are under investigation and are addressed in the fields of transport, skills, education, industry, etc. Then the Progress Party has never hidden that we want to put down the county municipality. This is not the majority for. It is the Left and Christian People's Party that has, over the last three major periods, been concerned with changing the county municipalities. In the context of the work of the Red-Green Government on regional reform in 2006 and 2007, the Left and Christian People's Party concluded an agreement with the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV on the transfer of a large number of tasks from the State sector to new, popularly elected regions. But the work stopped completely. Before the summer, the Progress Party concluded an agreement with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party to merge a number of states. Fewer counties involve reduced costs of administration and increased resources for important services. Aggregation of counties is better than no change. A new breakdown has been adopted, new tasks will be allocated and a new income system will be put in place. With strong growth in county roads, cultural investment, research, innovation and growth-promoting tax reductions, governments and cooperation parties have facilitated regional development across the country. At the same time, most people don't have strong feelings for their country. Strictly speaking, very few people know what tasks are assigned to the county council. Most people are concerned that things work, and they're busy with good services. Therefore, it is important to use the money wisely and build strong trade unions. The Progress Party refers to the submissions made on 8 June and to the decisions taken there. What we said and did then, we still mean. The party of progress does not wave. The Contracting Party shall be responsible for the agreements it enters into. We want to look forward, not backwards, and therefore we are voting against all the proposals that will go along with the decisions taken on 8 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2456	I have a question for the Progress Party. Although the Progress Party believes that people are less concerned with regions than municipalities, I still want to ask the question: What does the representative Kjønaas Kjos think that most people think about the new big Viking region?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2462	I feel that most people don't feel much about this. I think there's something people will think about when they see that it's in place, and when they see how the new tasks are distributed and how it's going to change, improve, get worse -- we hope it gets better. But that's when services change, people notice it, and then I think we'll get a fasit on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2467	When services are changed — yes, which services are changed? What tasks will the new big Viking region have on behalf of its inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2472	It will be exciting to take part in the decisions to be taken in that respect. Now we've put down a sample that comes with suggestions. It's also going to be exciting to see to what extent the Greatness will join it. I guess I'm experiencing an opposition that has been against any kind of change when we've tried to move problems up or down, so it can be demanding. The red-greens couldn't land anything when it was about this, but with a good investigation at the bottom, I hope we can make good decisions that get broad political uprisings here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2477	It is a well-known fact that the Progress Party believes that county municipalities should be closed down and that we should move on to a two-level model in the organisation of Norwegian administration. The party has been involved in a major administrative reform, where the stated aim is to strengthen the county council's role as a social developer, as the Progress Party is also in the form of a comment on this matter. I am fully aware that the driving force behind regional reform is not the Progress Party, and the question is how the party looks at the major changes that are now being made in the county structure, in relation to their primary objective, which is to remove the county municipality. I believe that the Progress Party, for example, is responsible for: that the decision on the coercion of county councils is a step on the way to the removal of the counties in the long term, or is the decision a recognition that the programme has been chosen by the party, cannot or should not be implemented, or are we going to experience in this case suddenly that the party to the progress will be in favour of rematches?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2486	We still have the goal that we don't need the county municipalities. It's clear that we'll also be able to see what it will do to the vitalization of society or better arrangement for the population, that we're now getting bigger states, that it might be a system that we can live much better with. But it could also be that we're merging even more counties – and finally we're merging so many that there's no more. And then we've reached our goal! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2491	I note that the Progress Party is calling for new rematches and that what is here is just a preliminary result. Then I also hear that the representative of the Progress Party has no opinion on what people think about this. In Akershus, an opinion poll has been taken on the Viken region, there over 60 pst. has said no and less than 20 pst. has said yes. But it's not just people who say no – it's also done the county. One of the leading figures in the Progress Party in Akershus, the group leader in the county council, said the following to Budstikka on 22 February: I am terribly disappointed. I fought with beaks and claws to prevent this contraction and regional reform. It won't give our citizens better services. Why is it so important for you, as Akershu’s representative, to overrun your own in the Progress Party in the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2500	On the previous question, I did not say that we were going to rematch, I said we would continue to work. There is a difference between rematching and continuing to work. Then, of course, it's because we don't want the county to exist, that some of our people are disappointed, and I understand that. But our people out there also understand that being in government, getting through the majority of the Storting is about negotiating, it's about compromising. And so far, through our little over four years in the government of the country, we have got through so much of our policy that has been important to us, that we also accept that we make agreements that are across what we really want. But what is important for the Progress Party is to stand by the agreements we have made, and that is what we are doing now – we stand by the agreements we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2507	I appreciate the honesty of the representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, because it's just as good that this comes out, and we know it. Even at the press conference when the consensus was presented in the spring, both the speakers of the Right Party and the Advance Party said that they wanted the state level closed, and that this was a step on the way. Organising the public sector is important, and that we do it in an appropriate and good way. What I could imagine asking the representative, Mr Kjos, is: does the representative not agree that you should know what to do before you have to find the right unit to organize it around? For example, if you're going to operate with public transport, it's good to know how much area you're going to have to have this service? Does the representative agree that services are important first and then organisation and geography?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2514	That's what the Center Party and the Workers' Party tried on, and it didn't work out. Then it's okay to put the structure first. Perhaps it will now be easier for us to see what kind of tasks the new county municipalities are able to do when a system is completed. If you transfer tasks before you've seen the system, you can easily bomb. So I actually think the order we're doing it in right now is good. And the fact that we've got progress at all shows that this way of doing it can work very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2519	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2524	The regional reform has become a new downhill for the government. The county councils were ordered by the government to carry out a so-called neighbouring talk in the hope that it would lead to a series of voluntary mergers. It stayed with Trundellag and Agder. The other five estate mergers are pushed through by the bulk of the population by coercion. In the Committee's hearing, we received several reasons why the counties do not want aggregation. I would like to quote a little from the disappointments we got to see, by reproducing some of the statement from Buskerud. There they say: ‘The County of Buskerud was the only county that approved the negotiated agreement signed by the three county rapporteurs in Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud.’ Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘The reason why the county council in Buskerud said YES was that we believed in the government when they said that more and more important tasks would be transferred from the state to the new regions.’ And on the other hand, « but when the proposal 84S came, we were very disappointed. [[...]] Few and only minor tasks were proposed for the transfer to the new counties.» Buskerud filling changed its mind and decided in June 2017 to oppose the coup d'état. All the county councils that met in the committee hearing were in agreement that the regional reform should be stopped. Everyone is calling for a task reform rather than a border reform, and most people were quite clear that today's county councils are not dependent on mergers to accept more and heavier tasks that are currently unknown. Today we are discussing a series of representative proposals, all of which are made in proposals that the Stortinget repeal the merger decisions that were taken on 8 June. The exception is Agder. The proposals are well-founded and show a strong lack of understandable arguments behind the merger decisions that were taken. In his letter to Stortinget, the councils of state said that today's county councils have different geographical sizes and different population numbers. So by merging the county councils, we were going to have a more even distribution of the population between the counties. But now let's do that? More and Romesdal with its 270,000 inhabitants were not proposed combined with other counties, while Akershus with its more than 600,000 inhabitants were coerced together with Eastfold and Buskerud. The variation in the population between the states will increase rather than equalise. The Nordic region has 240 000 inhabitants, and the new Gulf will have 1.2 million inhabitants. The government and the majority of the population say that the role of society development should be a major task for the states, and that it should be more easily taken care of by larger states. Why? The social development role requires the counties to carry out regional tasks which cannot be fulfilled by the municipality or state. However, the merged regions will be composed of internal regions with large differences. The metropolitan region around Oslo and Hallingdal has little in common. The same is true of the Bergens region and the districts of Sogn and Fjordane. In addition, the government has systematically reduced the role of county councils in the development of industry and the development of new jobs. We get two new superstates if not Storting says stop. One is in the north, through the merger of Troms and Finnmark, which will cover a quarter of the land area in Norway – a quarter! The second is the Week, which with its 1.2 million inhabitants will cover about a quarter of the country's population. In the north, we're going to have about 100 miles of travel between the extremes of the new state. The County Reform was adopted by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. There wasn't much enthusiasm to track in the reasons given. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have always been open that they want to remove the state level, last here in this debate now. The Left and Christian People's Party has been the driving force behind the reform, but the statements of the Christian People's Party's municipal political spokesperson in the Great Britain's debate on 8 June said a little about the zeal after getting the decision through. No one is satisfied, but yet this hall shall trump through the coup d'états which we here in the house are dissatisfied with, and with which our various party traps out there in the counties are dissatisfied. I'm afraid we must conclude that the Christian People's Party has chosen to be doubtful about its own policies, and to believe against the government and the Left rather than believing in itself. It is probably disappointing to many and will not at least upset the party's own representatives around the country. We hear from the representatives of the majority that the new counties can expect far more tasks, only the government will be able to sum up. The fact is that, in the case of large and unwanted mergers of county municipalities, no investigation is needed, because the decisions were taken head-on and contrary to the state’s own assessments. In the case of tasks, it must be investigated in the knowledge and the broad. Nothing is decided, and the promises are very airy. The reality seems to be that the main ambition of the government and its supporters is for the state level, is that there will be fewer units. It goes in front of the problems that have to be solved so far. Then we'll see if time will show that unfortunately I get right in my fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2566	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2571	The new structure of regional reform will facilitate a more holistic development of society, where the county communities are given a renewed power to develop both districts and areas in and around the major cities, for example. through more holistic spatial and transport plans. Although these tasks are not in a way very clear, they are one of the backgrounds of these reforms. Larger and fewer county municipalities will also contribute to a reduction in administrative operating costs, which may contribute to and strengthen the economy by using funds for better services for the inhabitants. My question: why won't the Center Party participate in such a development, to strengthen the economic potential of the municipalities and to create a healthy and good social development for the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2578	The representative of Trellevik is fully aware that the Central Party has put a quarter of a billion dollars on the table in our alternative state budget precisely to strengthen the financial position of county councils, because local representatives are to be given the opportunity to contribute more to regional development and focus on the societal development role. I am still happy to see the empirical data on which the representative leans, namely that administrative costs will automatically be reduced by combining administrative levels. It will also depend on whether or not tasks are transferred, which will necessarily lead to more administration. It has not been provided in such a situation that the administrative costs are thus lower. As stated above, there are no empirical data from comparable countries, nor in Norway, and this has also been disregarded by the Council of State in its own argument as to why the reform was important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2585	It's like you might want to save some statesmen and some county councillors, so some money is safe to save. The representative says he has no duties. In fact, some of the tasks are to create more holistic land and transport plans, so that both businesses and other actors are able to do this and save on it, and develop society in a better way – not only county services, but also community services. Why is such an unlikely negative to such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2592	It's a misconception if someone walks around and thinks that the Center Party is opposed to moving more tasks to the regionally elected level. However, the regionally elected level pointed out earlier — and to the extent of the consultation — that they are able to accept the tasks they are currently outlined, with the size they have. It also turns out when we merge the states and get this imbalance in both the population and the area, which was so far there, but which is even more reinforced by this coercion. That's why the Center Party has said, let's start with the problems. The county councils have said that, and the centre party listens to local democracy. I have been sitting and working on these so-called complete land and transport plans quite thoroughly. I have to say that I have my big doubts – after trying it to a large extent – that it will be easier for the larger the area, the more people and the more reasons you have to be able to take care of locally. It's going to be challenging, but I hope many succeed, because it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2599	Some of the challenges are that a person builds both in pieces and in parts within the sphere of transportation, and that the whole-hearted and good planning in and around the cities is too bad. There is bad interaction between county municipalities where borders cross each other in densely populated areas, and there is suboptimisation between county municipalities. A more coherent planning will be achieved by merging a large number of places, but I note that the Centre Party is opposed to such a holistic development of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2604	I'm not sure if it was a question or just a conclusion and a argument that the Center Party is against a whole social development. That's not true, with respect to reporting. On the contrary, the centre party is concerned that the local government and the regional public elected levels should have the opportunity to determine their own development, for they know best locally where the shoe prints. Some will always be on the frontier. We can't get away with that, because there'll always be someone on the frontier. We can go all the way up to the country level, because there will always be some countries bordering on each other. Then, of course, there are good opportunities to strengthen cooperation between the counties, or between municipalities or counties. I know many successful cases out there that I think the representative Trellevik could have had a good time studying more closely, because it is possible to get it to, despite the fact that the border goes one place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2611	The representative Nordlund said this must be a new downhill for the government. I deeply disagree with that, and I don't understand how he can conclude with it. Indeed, it is the proposals of the government and the cooperation parties that are being adopted today – again – and confirmed. It was also referred to the merger of the Agder states, and I can assure both the President and the representative here that it is probably the regional reform that has been the trigger for us finally to get to these decisions in the county below. But my question to the Nordlund representative is: it's easy to criticize here, but what is the Central Party's alternative? What do you think County Norway is going to look like, and what tasks do you want there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2616	There are a number of tasks – which, in so far as both the National Government and the Governing Council of the KS have pointed out, and which various parties and different majority have pointed out in the form of comments during the last years of this Chamber – that may be relevant for the transfer. These relate to everything from transport planning to industrial development, but mainly to tasks that, at the discretion of most, will require political judgement and not be determined by an office. There are many such tasks that may be currently being transferred. The centre party has proposed more that one should look at, and I am pleased to discuss with the representative Tveiten Benestad which of the tasks we will transfer when the task message is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2621	It's interesting to hear the Central Party's description of this, especially when you think that most of us build the house before we furniture it. But it's not like that for the Center Party. I have two periods in the county itself, and there's no doubt that we still had today's structure, this had rotted. But it probably hasn't been important for the Center Party. What has been very important for the Left has always been to create a balance between the capital area and the rest of the country, and I think we are contributing to this matter. I did this in ours, and I hear that the fight against the state of office and the People's Government is important to the Central Party, perhaps only on paper sometimes, because I'm quite amazed when I know what was adopted in ours. Why didn't the Central Party support the transfer of more supervision to the State? Why didn't the Center Party support it in ours, when we had that treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2628	The central party is of the opinion that we should have an overall approach to this and discuss what kind of tasks and what kind of supervision should lie at the different levels, regardless of what we are now discussing in this matter, namely structural reform. That should soon be perceived by the Left. If I don't think the Left must read the comments of the Center Party one more time. So now it's like this, when you're talking about houses and furniture, that it's also important to know what kind of empty you're going to build on, before you start with the travel agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2634	That's the line change. Before we go back to the ordinary list of speakers, the President will remember that everything that is said from the Parliamentary Chair is to be directed to the President. The president notices that it's about to slip out a little bit, so she comes up with a general call to remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2641	The two major challenges we face with the organisation of local democracy are relocation from District Norway and land conflicts around the big cities. Neither the municipal reform nor the regional reform solve these two tasks. I just want to make a visit to the representative Trellevik, who said that land conflicts around the cities were one of the reasons for the regional reform. There's one place that's a problem, and it's in Oslo and Akershus with the counties, and now we're talking about the counties. You don't solve land conflicts by merging Hedmark and Uppland, or Finnmark and Troms, or Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. There are no cities that are confined there and are not allowed to develop because it is not a common area. It's just here that's the way it is, but you haven't been able to touch it. SV's opinion is that you can't refurbish the Norway map for nothing. That's what you're doing now. Thus, half of the instruments have been used by county councils, and this government has proposed for Stortinget to move the dental services – which require large areas – to municipalities. It has even been proposed to move public transport and secondary schools to the large municipalities. In this case, I have to say that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have deeply disappointed me, because they believe that they have saved this level together with someone who obviously wants to put it down, who doesn't want it, and who realizes, of course, that when you make something very incomprehensible that doesn't belong to a human being, the understanding of the county community is much worse. I get that, too. I believe that we can use it for a lot, and SV promoted a number of proposals when we dealt with the regional reform in Stortinget. And so did the Center Party and the Workers' Party. So those who wanted it could have voted for all of those suggestions, then we would have something to work with. But they don't. We have a government that systematically undermines this level both in terms of tasks and in terms of money, and that understands, of course, that identity is important. When you undermine it, it's gonna be hard. There are two voluntary counties, it's Trondelag and Agder. We have voted for both of them, and we understand that it has something to do with common identity. Hedmark and Uppland don't have it. I also hear that we are going to be called Inland, then I expect that we are residents, and that the other people are foreigners. I have proposed the East to contribute to peace. When you now discuss the West in the West, we can discuss the East in the East. It's at least the only identity I feel related to – if we're going to discuss the name of this. But this is also a state that gets bigger than what Finnmark is today, and where all the valley pilots go along. It might be a little easier with some decisions around Mjösa – although I doubt it, we've been doing it for a long time. The Viking is a creature that I think only a mother can love, and it would have been nice if we could have done something with it, but Finnmark and Troms think I might be the worst thing, because they have a few speakers here. There are two very different identities, and this is about Norway's largest country in the area of a small population, but with a very peculiar structure and very special needs that are not being met. In the second state: there are nice and good people there, and they get a lot of great in Troms, but there's an imbalance between the two states that will, of course, also impact politically. This, I believe, is – I think I would refer to the head of the Workers' Party – a piece of reform. And I can't really understand the representatives who today call for enthusiasm for non-content coercive reform, and who the states have opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2658	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2663	I would like to address the proposal on which SV stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2668	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2675	Regions have an incredibly important role to play as community developers. How to use the role of society in the future – it's probably a little different now than when the states were divided. Larger counties have better conditions for good land and transport planning, especially in and around the major cities. And even though Andersen's representative says that this is a problem only in the Oslo area, I'm going to invite her on a trip to Trøndelag to look at the challenges there are. It's important that we have a good land and transport planning to make everyday life better, but also to bring down the emissions and manage the area well. My question to SV is really whether the representative Andersen does not see the climate benefit of coordinating the regions. Hasn't the red-green disaster of their regional reform shown that it was necessary to think new to get through this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2682	Now, the Tree Layer states, where these land conflicts were, are merged, and it voted for SV. It seems that the representative has not intervened in the treatment that was here in Stortinget. In addition, I can inform you that the SV made a proposal that joint and obligating land and transport planning for the national routes should be introduced at the level of the county. I fully agree with that, but the logic is completely lacking in Oslo and Akershus. That's where these problems are really big, that's where the great climate gains from this can be taken out – but there the government has not dared to do so. SV has proposed it, the Right has voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2689	What we are really standing here debating today is whether to get a bigger and stronger region, especially in the Oslo area. This is when you get the big gains – as Andersen’s representative also refers to – that will ensure better land and transport planning, which will also ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced in the long term. It's hard for me to understand what the option of the Socialist Left will really be in such a situation. Now we have shown – even though the Right is really not to have an additional regional level – that we are able to find a solution that allows us to get better services for people, that we are bringing down greenhouse gas emissions. I find it regrettable that SV contributes to taking a rematch on this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2696	Now a well cat escaped from the bag -- that the right really doesn't want to have this at regional level or at state level at all. Nor is SV strange that sometimes a national spatial plan or a government plan is needed to get through large-scale projects that are just about to work in this important area. It's in the area where you haven't joined Oslo and Akershus, this could be the sense in such a context. But you have chosen to include other states in addition, where the conflicts in the large areas of these states are not at all involved in this problem. So here, I think the representative has to go back to his own proposals and see that you don't solve what you say is a problem, with the geographical breakdown that you have proposed and implemented by force.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2703	Here we see one of the big dividing lines between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. Clearly, the solution to the Socialist Left is to have a government plan, to intervene if we cannot agree on a common land and transport planning to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to ensure that we develop better housing environments. That's the big difference. I would rather have said that we should let the decisions be made closer to where people live. I think we also get that when we get bigger regions, which have better conditions for taking these decisions together, than instead we have to have state authorities to review, which it might seem as if SV is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2710	This shows a great confusion on the part of the representative. It must mean that the objective of the Right really is that the county councils should go away. And then we're going to have some giant municipalities – because they have to be enormously difficult if they're going to be able to do the tasks that the representative is now talking about. I also know that the government's seas are using state plans for some areas. This may be necessary, precisely because the unit does not fit in all contexts. I'm a little surprised if it's the way the Right now says never to use a government plan – I'll notice – but it's not appropriate to solve the major climate and environmental challenges we're facing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2718	It was probably the state plan the red-green government used when a merged health south and health east to health south-east – with 2.9 million inhabitants. And we're talking today about a state, the Viking, which is 1.2 million inhabitants. With Health South-East, the red-green government created, in the hope of solving a challenge in the capital, a mastodon and a bureaucracy that we see today is almost on its way out of the country with all our personal data. At least there is no principle of subsidiarity created there. I had a notion that SV was an environmental party. In Hedmark, where Andersen's representative is from, and Uppland, where I am from, we each have our bus company running a bus on each side of Mjösa, without we taking out a national grant to coordinate this, because the buses run most between the three soft cities – they run on each side of Mjøsa. My question to Andersen is: why – in the name of the environment – should we not do this sensible merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2729	First, I would like to say to the representative Kjenseth that if he wants to be with SV and change the hospital structure and reform, he is warmly welcome to it. This has not been SV's child's heart, we have, on the contrary, wanted a completely different model. Then it's not like Hedmark and Uppland have a bus company, they have two public companies running the buses. All buses are private and services are purchased by tender. SV has now proposed to have an urban environment package for Gjøvik, Lillehammer and Hamar, precisely in order to have a cooperation to develop public transport in this area, which is the area in our counties where there can be room for large sections of traffic to be taken over to public transport. This is completely possible to solve through cooperation. But if we had gotten more problems into this collaboration, it might also have been a little bit more enthusiasm for the aggregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2738	There's an interesting debate we have today, and I want to challenge Andersen's representative on a few of the announcements she made. Because she says that what we're doing right now is something big, that no one has a belonging to. When I ask my neighbors who they are, and where they come from, they say they're healthy people, and they say they're Westerners. None of it is an administrative unit. It's about a culture, and it's about a connection that's much more than just that. So I hear the representative say that two of the mergings that are now being done are voluntary. Sogn and Fjordane County and Hordaland County have both made mutual decisions to merge. One has made a few premises: one has said that there should be a real reform towards ten states, one has said that one must look at the points contained in the agreement, and there should be a real division of tasks – as one should work on in the current division of tasks. How does the representative view that aggregation? Is that a coercion order?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2747	Yeah, I think so. I have, unlike the representative, been involved in this process all the way, and I have been listening to all the hearings that we have had in Stortinget, and it is quite clear that the premises that were made for this merger have not been fulfilled. There is no reason to say that this must be done now. But if the government parties want to meet those premises, and this becomes a voluntary merger, SV shall not vote against it. I understand that with identity, but then I also think that a Westerner or a sunmer might have to understand that it's completely different in other parts of the country. Where I come from, for example, I don't know anyone who is hedmarking once, perhaps apart from my sail. All are oyster beer, glare beer or heathmarks, and on the other side of Mjösa they are from Valdres, from the Gudbrand valley or from Hadeland. There is no common identity, nor does one create an identity by creating a large unit with fewer tasks and fewer resources. You're undermining the entire level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2754	The cord changer is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2759	Once again, the date is 8 June. At that time, agreements were made with regard to the regional breakdown, but on the table today, there is a wide range of proposals, on a general or specific basis, which call for a rematch on a legally adopted decision. One may disagree with the decision, but it is a legitimate decision. I also need to establish that the Christian People's Party is a party that stands by the agreements concluded. An agreement was reached in February 2017 between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, and this agreement was the basis of which was concluded in June, and this agreement is still underpinned. It shouldn't be stuck under the chair that we've said that several of these regional divisions didn't turn out to be the way we really wanted it. We can look at BTV – Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold – it has been a natural region for many years. We have meant and still believe that the Viking is too big. But politics is about building compromise. We didn't get there, and we have to accept that. We didn't accept it immediately. For the Christian People's Party, it is all, most important that we get a regional reform and that we get a real democratic gain. And we get a real gain by solving problems in the regions and districts. We therefore have great expectations for the Committee of Experts. Not only do we have great expectations, we actually have great demands for the expert committee – at least for what comes out at the other end. We say so many of us that now we have to wait and look at what problems we get. No – if there is to be some of that task transfer, we have to take tasks. It's going to be a challenge for all of us in this room, because it's not safe for those who have the problems to let them go so easily. So a prerequisite for making the reform work is that the tasks are in place. Then we get a good district policy, and then we get decisions there as people live. I became rapporteur in a primary municipality in the last millennium, and I have followed this debate through several rounds. In 2005, we thought that we had come up with something that was very good and very good, but the red-greens were unable to do this. It was mountain that bore a mouse, and I hope it is not the mouse that whistles today. The government had no need to present a regional reform. We saw quite clearly that the strategy was that now we should look at the municipalities and perhaps get so large municipalities that this with the regions was not so necessary. The Left and Christian People's Party has been very clear that in order to accept this with the municipalities, we must also have powerful, good regions that can solve the problems. That is why we stand by this agreement, and that is why this agreement is important, because it will provide decentralised governance. What we've known all along is that if there wasn't a reform now, it might never be. Then the regions, the county councils, are going to rot, and then we're going to have a huge change of the primary municipalities, which are going to be huge, and we're going to have a strong state, an even stronger state, that's going to rule for us. Yes, the process is incomplete. What came first – the chicken or the egg, or the egg or the chicken, or should each region have each their own eggs or each their own hens? Actually, I'm extremely uncertain about that here, but the agreement is still in place. In fact, our humble desire is that this should bring about a decentralization, but then we should be on the watch for the tasks. The Christian People's Party recommends that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2787	I'm from Akershus and among those who propose to cancel the Viking region. The Capital Region expects historical growth. Oslo and Akershus are already the largest and perhaps the most important interconnected housing and labour market in the country. In the future, we need to plan jointly, both transport, climate and environment, business, cultural development and much more. We are already a functional region, and everyone understands that it is Oslo and Akershus that should be merged today. The Christian People's Party is going to become heavy on the scale of this matter, and they have previously signaled the will to look at the Week again. Now I'm appealing to them and a total big deal about making sense when we vote today. Then I just want to say that I hope for a miracle.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2794	In the Christian People's Party, we are very much for the miracle, but unfortunately I have to disappoint the representative, because it probably doesn't happen in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2799	I agree that we need regional reform. As I said, the Oslo area is growing rapidly, and we need comprehensive policies and coordination of the common challenges we face in the interconnected housing and labour market. The Week is not going to solve any of those challenges. The week is going to create a lot of new problems for us. The representative was concerned that this was not really the way they thought it would be, but I believe that it is not worth saying that this was not the way they had thought it would be. It is we who sit in this room, who are responsible for shaping Norway, and it does not hold in favour of a region that has the sole purpose of showing that there is a regional reform. That's why I want to ask the Christian People's Party if they see that the tasks in Oslo and Akershus are there in full monn, and how the Christian People's Party, with that curtain, can support such a bad social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2804	The condition for this question is incorrect. This is not to support poor social development. We've clearly said that it's not optimal, but that's what we've done, assuming we want tasks out in the regions. I also assume that no organisation is static. I also reserve the right to come back – probably like the Council of State and others – if, against presumptuous assumption, it were to go completely wrong. But as I said, we have concluded an agreement on this, and we stand by the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2810	The Left and Christian People's Party has been the driving force behind the state reform, but the statements of the Christian People's Party's municipal political spokesperson in the Stortinget on 8 June, when this was discussed, say their own about the eagerness to get this decision through. Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal said: ‘That we have managed to find a solution that no parties agree with must be proof that we can work together, because we have a common result where no one is entirely satisfied.’ We have recorded that other figures from the Christian People's Party have also later pronounced scepticism for what they have been involved in. Several have asked how wise this coercion of the Viking has been. The week as a crumbling around Oslo, no one has yet been able to tell why they have found, and what it is to be used for. County reform is so far a purely structural reform, while the reason for it was that we should have a task reform. What is the Christian People's Party's reason for supporting a state reform to which so many in the party have expressed scepticism? What will the Christian People's Party do if new essential tasks do not come?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2822	I've given the reasons for this, and I'd like to repeat it. The reason is to rig a system where we're going to get decentralised problems. There have been many problems. Until now, county councils have been recording tasks. Then we actually have a level that is at the investigation stage – that is said at state level – it is either under work or to be investigated. That is why the Christian People's Party has so clearly said that one here must be willing to be strong if one is to get tasks out, and that is a prerequisite for the success of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2827	If the Christian People's Party wants more tasks for the states, I think you have chosen the wrong partners. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre want to maintain this level of rule, several of us have also called for reform, but then there must be content in it first. So the representative says that the whole purpose now is to get tasks out, but the fact is that the only government so far has put on the table is tasks away from county councils. Tannhelse we had to fight again, high school we have to fight again, public transport we have to fight again, and the regional policy instruments that these regions can work with are halved. Why does the Christian People’s Party have faith in a partner who says they do not want this level?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2834	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2839	To start with, the partner choice made under the red-green government when this reform took place last time was not so successful, either. Maybe it's good for the Christian People's Party to try a new partner, simply. With regard to the tasks that were mentioned, the Christian People's Party has been involved in fighting them in place at the regional level, so I don't fully see that argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2846	Some suggest that the Left and Christian People's Party is in a destiny. I'd like to share that with you. The representative was involved in the debate on the chicken and egg, on what came first. I think it's important that there's both a hen and a cock in that basket that's going to give birth to some new problems that we're all concerned with. Then there has been a little discussion about the Viken mastodon, which no one really wants – and about the distance from Halden to the Hallingskarvet. But if we move the focus a little bit down to Eastfold, to the Outer Whaler National Park, it's going to meet the Hallingshervet National Park at the other end. There are two universities between them — at least next year, when the University of Oslo and Akershus are most likely to become universities. There are still two colleges there, and three of Norway's largest and most modern hospitals will be in this region. But still there are probably some challenges. Will the Christian People's Party participate in creating a professional university in this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2853	I'll accept that recording with interest and I'll look at it further. It was said in a previous post here that there may have been a miracle, and the miracle I hope is happening today is actually that I, who is over fertile age, can still be involved in doing something that is fruitful in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2858	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2863	The size decided before the summer that we should have a strongly elected level between the state and the municipality. 13 county municipalities were adopted combined into 6 new ones, so we get 11 counties from 2020. We have now spent several decades discussing the county municipality. There has been a discussion about whether we are going to have county municipalities, how many county municipalities we are going to have, whether we are going to have county reform, or whether we are not going to have county reform. The red-green government tried to bring about a state reform, it was even Labour Party politicians who dreamed of a much larger region than what we now see in the Vikings, but it fell apart. We are friends of our friends, and when the Left and Christian People's Party take the initiative for state reform, we compromise and find good solutions. After the Storting has dealt with the matter today, the decisions are going to stand still, and we are getting more appropriate borders and regions that are better connected. It's a reality that society is changing, the challenges are changing, and then the way we organize ourselves also needs to change. The new regions will have new opportunities, not least because the regions have different resources and different challenges – from Finnmark and Troms in the north, with their rich access to resources, and not least the opportunity they now have to both fill and realise parts of the Northern Region policy, to Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud, with its close links to the capital, and with a functional and well-functioning transport system that can make the whole of the East better connected. What's common is that in the years that come, we have to implement the green shift. More jobs are to be created, and more are to be qualified for work. Here the new county municipalities will have an important role to play. It's also a reality that we need to think about how we're using resources in the future. With fewer counties, administrative resources are released that can be used by the counties for better services. I record that there is a discussion about tasks. I think I have a little feeling that you're pushing it a little bit in front of me, because it's the Storting that decides what tasks the new states are going to have. When the major municipal reform was carried out in 1965, tasks were not started, but a municipal structure began to be rigged that allowed municipalities to develop from – I kept saying – almost minimum solutions then, to large welfare municipalities today. We have adopted the transfer of tasks, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and we have an expert committee looking at new tasks. The Storting will have good opportunities to discuss it in the time to come. What happens to the regional breakdown of government agencies has also been called for. There we have also agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left that we are now starting a work to see if the state structure can be better adapted to the structure of the counties, assuming that it creates better services for the inhabitants and for the business community. We must always be clear that our task is to serve people and businesses and to enable us to do those problems better. We have already taken the first step in achieving better harmonisation with the county offices. The new county structure will be in place from 1 January 2019. During the spring Stortinget will also decide on the name proposals for the new counties. I think that might also be an interesting discussion, when that time comes. Important decisions have been taken in the Storting. Now it's time to look forward. I've had the pleasure of having good dialogue with many of the state politicians. They also look forward to solving the problem when the time of the fights is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2889	It's good to hear that the Council of State records that there is demand for more tasks out in the counties and regions, but I think it's too wrong to say that this is something we're trying to push in front of us to have a reason to say that this is not a good process. I myself was in the South-Trondelag county from 1987 to 1999, where it was about both hospitals, psychiatry, intoxication, child protection, HVPU, etc. Now we have even bigger regions. Then you should think that many tasks can be reversed. But with the unrest that has arisen in all the coercive states, is not the Council of State concerned about how the processes further linked to good cooperation and development of the regions should bear fruit and deliver results for these new regions and the regional administration – for the benefit of those living in the municipalities? In trøndelag we have done this in a good way, but it has been well locally anchored, and it also makes for better cooperation. But in the other states, we kind of see the opposite, and then the question is, isn't the council worried about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2897	I'm going to give a very clear answer to that: No, the council is not worried. On the contrary, I am optimistic and see that the state politicians are now taking hold of the task they have been given. I think there are many state politicians, including from the representative's party, who look forward to the time of the fighting being over, so that the important task of building new states can be solved. I myself have had the pleasure of visiting several of the states, and I have had dialogue with state politicians from all parties, and they look forward to building the new states. And yes, I followed the process in Trøndelag closely. I also helped to make it a successful result, by putting the County Headquarters seat to Steinkjer. It was important, because when building a new region, one must also contribute to the development of the whole region. That's why we've put the main seat to Vadsø, so we've put the main seat to Leikanger, so we've put the main seat to Lillehammer, with a clear signal that you have to think about developing the whole region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2904	The Council of State said, both in its contribution now and in a letter to the Stortinget, that today's county councils have different geographical sizes and different levels of population, and that the Council of State purposed that, by merging, the population should be distributed more evenly among the counties. The result may be the opposite, because there is a greater difference in population and geographic size now that we have a reform that nobody really wants. I tried earlier to get an answer to what was on the Right's mind about this, but I'm going to try again, because maybe the Council of State can answer. Is it that the cohesion of population and size is no longer a major reason for implementing this reform? What, then, are the reasons for implementing the reform, if you think that the structure has to be decided first, even as the Council of State said in its contribution on municipal structure in the 1960s, before you start discussing tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2913	The reality is that today's county councils have no support either in the previous Stortinget or in this. It's a majority that wants to change, and we're going to implement it. So Norway is a country with high mountains, deep valleys and fjords. People live spread. There are great differences in our geography, and that of course the structure has to take into account. Therefore, there will be more people living in the new Viking region than in Troms and Finnmark. I have also registered that it has been suggested to share the Week. I think that would be the worst proposal of all, because then, suddenly, three counties in the Oslo region, who have major land and transport problems, would be given. It is quite obvious that there will be more people living in the Oslo region than in part of the other regions. However, these are interrelated regions, which have a large share of resources and which can help to improve the development of both the population and the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2920	Now it's the government council that has argued that there should be more equality between the population and the area in these states. It is not the Storting or some of us in the opposition who have argued that it should be important. So the government council mentions that one should also look at the government organisation regionally. That's good. One of the decisions that have just been taken is the regionalisation of Nav. And what has Nav done? Well, they've organized themselves in the East and West. It's okay if you had done it like that with those states, you would have ended up with three. But today, you have two, you have Oslo inside a state called the Viking, and you haven't solved any of the common land and transport problems that you might initially have done if you had dared to make the whole decision at once. I'm just recording that the government hasn't done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2927	I disagree. If you look at what's now happening in the Oslo area, all the infrastructure being built connects the new region. With the Ringeriksbanen and the new E16, with the new Follobanen and with the intercity triangle, the new Viking region is bound together. There is also a background for the initial initiatives of that region to come from both Buskerud and Østfold. I'm sure it's going to be okay. I'd also like to see Oslo involved, but we're recording that Oslo has a two-tier model, and we also see that in many of the other metropolitan areas of Northern Europe, there are separate solutions for the capital. We have to deal with it, but now we have a region that is largely linked. We will also help to make regional states – where it serves citizens and businesses – better adapted to the structure of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2932	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, from the Workers' Party, probably summed up the reason why we're here today, quite precisely. Hospital reform, drug reform, child protection reform, psychiatry reform – everything disappeared from the counties in the early 2000s. It was probably in recognition of the fact that the Workers' Party, together with its red-green comrades, started a regional reform in 2006. One would replace those problems with some new ones. I heard the Council of State mention the northern regions. I think that's a very interesting dimension in the discussion we have here today. We have new challenges in the north, so far up to Svalbard, which may be the twelfth state, without it being our land area. We have a very strong cultural cooperation against Russia. We have the North Callot, which is important. Interreg cooperation can be delivered more effectively. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2939	I am absolutely convinced that Finnmark and Troms can play an important role in both the development and implementation of the Northern Region policy. We have revitalised the Northern Region policy by establishing a Northern Area Forum where the counties are already involved. We look at what's part of the challenge in Finnmark and Troms, it's related to education. We have to make sure that there are fewer drop-outs, and that we get the level of education. We must also help to ensure that more companies in the north qualify for larger contracts – large resources, great opportunities. Many of these tasks are already within the county community's portfolio, and I am absolutely sure that Finnmark and Troms will be able to play an important role in both the development and implementation of the North Region policy, which goes beyond just the two states.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2944	The council was very clear that one had to build the structure first and the tasks afterwards, and we had to build new, robust regions before we saw what tasks we could move out. Then my question is: with the structure we have now received, where More and Romsdal are to exist as an even smaller state than they have been before, because some municipalities move to South Trundellag, Rogaland, and we are to build the Gulf with the size there – can the Council of State mention one task or type of task that More and Romsdal can easily solve, but which Akershus cannot solve without being joined with surrounding states?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2949	The challenges in More and Romesdal and the Oslo area are very different. In the Oslo region, it's very much about land and transport. I am convinced that with the new region around Oslo, you have a better starting point for solving the land and transport problems. More and Romesdal have other challenges. It could be that both Rogaland and More and Romesdal think differently in a few years than they have done so far. We've had the same state structure for 150 or 160 years. Now we go from 19 to 11 counties. This is an important step, and we believe that the new states can have more tasks in the years to come. If the representative of the Central Party thought differently, the Central Party could start with the tasks when they themselves were in government and eager for reform. You didn't, and you failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2958	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2963	One day in June 2017 a narrow majority in Stortinget designed a completely dysfunctional region. They collided Troms and Finnmark. This region now becomes 74 494 km2. It's more than three times the size of the Week, which is referred to as unreasonable in size. We who live in Finnmark know everything about distance drawbacks. Now the scarcely large number – consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party – has left us with even greater distance disadvantages. For me, as a resident of Finnmark and Finnmarking, the decision to merge looks like a result of the Oslo arrogance experienced by the people of the north in the past. One sits in Oslo and decides what's going to happen in the north, without taking into account what the democratic bodies representing the Finnish mark-ups say. Finnmark County does not want to be joined with Troms. A survey of the population shows that three out of four Finn Markings are against aggregation. Most people who are against it. Why are we against it? We are opposed because we cannot see that a huge region will give Finnmark a positive development. The majority of regional reform claims to provide new opportunities. What they're talking about, nobody's good to explain. No new task has been assigned, and no insurance has been given to the Finnish authorities that anything is coming to the northernmost part of Norway. As it looks so far, Finnmark is going to lose both activity and jobs. The regional reform is a flop, driven by coercion and will end up as something just right, the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party will have, or maybe just the Left and Christian People's Party, because it doesn't really sound like either the Right or the Advance Party will have it – zero content, big change and with consequences for a lot of people. I wonder if the representatives of these parties are satisfied with the chaos they have created and will not be willing to clean up. It's sad. We in Finnmark think this is an incredibly broken situation, and we actually don't look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2980	In Sogn and Fjordane, we agreed to merge with Hordaland under clear precepts, unfulfilled statements. Thus, this is no longer to be seen as a voluntary aggregation. So in order for a merger to be voluntary, both county councils have to think that this is voluntary, and it's not like that, and it's not up to the one county council to define itself to what the other county council actually means. Nor is it up to the minority in Sogn and Fjordne to define themselves to what the plural means. I'm not going to spend so much time on the commitment agreement, but I would like to point out that I'm very surprised at how different it is possible to define that the lease is to be located there or there, because when it comes to the County and the lease to lie on Leikanger, it means the county and the assistant county – no more. So there's only one third of the staff on Leikanger today that's going to be on Leikanger. In contrast, in the case of Nav, the entire leadership group shall be moved to Bergen. New, important tasks have not been assigned to the county councils. You should start with the problems before a draw a map. Now this is and will be a strange reform, with a bad process, where the most important thing is to draw a new map – not what to do and what to do with the new region. It's clear that the Right Party and the Progress Party, which actually didn't want three elected levels, are now in a good way to get rid of just this one level. What's strange is why not the Left and Christian People's Party actually benefit from the influence power to get the regional reform back on the rails by starting from the tasks to be solved. Is it more important to come up with something than something that works? The new Viken region is probably hardly anyone who wants to, really. The selection that has been set to suggest new tasks should be allowed to come up with that setting before a spike map. So finally came the admission from Sanner: Yes, it's a goal that one should also save money on this aggregation. In addition, we have also received the admission from the government party today that this is just the first step. I'm asking people to pay attention to that. Then an equal or dissimilar that the plurals in Sogn and Fjordne County want to stand alone, but these are the realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e2997	I thought, I had strong faith. Now Storting had the opportunity. Many saw that opportunity – the Christian People's Party did not. The Christian People's Party had the opportunity, the opportunity to do something that would improve regional reform. The Christian People's Party had and has the power to change a reform that the Christian People's Party representatives themselves have referred to as an unfinished reform with potential for improvement. The Christian People's Party went away. Christian People's Party chose not to use the opportunity. It's completely incomprehensible. The Christian People's Party itself says that the Viking as a new state is not a construction that is desirable. The Christian People's Party does not listen to the districts either in Eastfold, Akershus or Buskerud. The Christian People's Party also does not listen to its own party and its own trust elected in Eastfold or Buskerud. The Christian People's Party in these states doesn't want a Viking as it is now. What was happening in the Christian People's Party big group? After giving signals, including in the election campaign, that the Week should be re-examined, the Christian People's Party now says: No, we leave it alone, it's not desirable with the Week as it's adopted, but we don't want to do anything about it. It makes you wonder what might be behind the fact that the Christian People's Party chooses to ignore its own statements and its own party parties. Now this came in the middle of the negotiations on the state budget, and I see that the Christian People's Party has limped a number of individual victories that are important for the Christian People's Party, for example. Buddy Music School's 2.5 million. kr. The representative Bransdal from the Christian People's Party knows well about this gymnast as it is in her own municipality. Then there'll be money for Kristen Sports Contact. There are millions in the Church's Family Protection Office and Ansgar Theological College. Was this the Christian People's Party's position on the Week being clarified? Was it in these special appropriations that the concerns of the Christian People's Party about the Week disappeared? You have to wonder. The Christian People's Party now suddenly believes, from this summer, that now the Fold is a brilliant construction. The Christian People's Party believes that a state divided in the middle of Oslo is an excellent solution, but Oslo, More and Rome's valley as well as Rogaland will not touch the Christian People's Party when these states said no to merging. Obviously, there are different rules for different states. Understand the one who can. The explanation of why the Christian People's Party is now enthusiastic about the Viken, with 1.2 million inhabitants, but none of the states wants, can be anything but that the Christian People's Party was well paid – or else that the collective sense of the Christian People's Party's big group got so hard pressure from the Right and the Advance Party that it just disappeared. The Christian People's Party had the opportunity to appear wiser than the rest of their friends. That possibility they unfortunately slip away here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3018	The county councils have now done the job that a majority in Stortinget have ordered them to do. They've been talking across state boundaries, trying to get together in larger regions. This has been important for creating good employment and employment markets, which are essential for business and good interaction in our country, which, after all, only has five million inhabitants. We know too well that different approaches from the municipal level have prevented good and overarching cross-sectoral plans, and agreement on large-scale transport projects is another theme – to mention something. Furthermore, a business life that does not see borders, and where there is activity in several states, for example, within the farming industry. It is then necessary to stick to several instances, which in some cases have different approaches to how one should respond to the problems. This will clean up a long way to go. One achieves a larger professional environment, one achieves a stronger professional environment, and one achieves greater professionalisation in the work to be done and benefits citizens and businesses. But it is not to hide that I would have liked very much to have seen that as the new West, with great V, could also have included the entire West, with little v, where Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordne also got Rogaland and Møre and Romsdal – or the parts of the county that are looking south. The Western world will only become powerful and powerful when these countries, too, come along. But I still think it is right to take the first step now, and I refer to the representative proposal 40 S for 2017-2018. We prefer the process to continue, and we work for good relations both north and south of the new Western state. It will be essential to ensure that all the new boundaries now emerging in our own country do not create new barriers to new cross-sectoral functions, which will depend on good interaction across the new borders. This allows us to make further adjustments in future, if appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3031	The Labour Party supports regional reform. We also want stronger states and regions, and the Labour Party supports voluntary mergers. The reform we want should look at both geography and content and division of tasks. The counties would have more work to do. In Finnmark, from which I come, we started our next-door conversations. We took the order that Stortinget had sent us. We had conversations with Nordland and Troms, we had our own conversations with Troms, and Troms and Nordland had their own conversations. That beach there. It was not possible to create the necessary understanding for this reform to be a good one, nor to create a guarantee that we would have more tasks. I heard the council here today talk about having a different purpose too – you had to balance the population, and you had to get bigger counties. Well, once again, the area of the Finnmark we have today is 14.8 pst. greater than Denmark, although we are only 76 000 people. So if we were to even out the population, if we were to get bigger counties, I can't see anything but Finnmark and Oslo should make a move – otherwise we couldn't achieve that goal. Now I don't mean to hustle with the reform, but the point I'm trying to make is that no matter how we had arranged, we would be different. It's part of the picture, it's part of the resistance. Then there are probably several reasons why it ransacked. There are several reasons why there was greater resistance in the north than many other places. This was not a reform that was ordered by the states, it was not that we had asked for this – it was the Great Government reform. And when the Stortinget was unable to create enthusiasm for its own reform – one couldn't offer tasks, one went directly to geography – it became a bit difficult for us to sell in that only we agreed to redraw the map, the tasks came of itself. We were going to give a sort of blank mandate to a government where both parties of government have been aware that the elected regional level will actually be liquidated. We saw at the same time that we were going to discuss geography in order to get more tasks, that they took the instrument, RUT funds are mentioned. It would remove dental and regional resources and remove administrative responsibility for the water region. So the Council of State pointed out that society is changing, and that we have to change. Then I want to say that the geography you're drawing now is actually the division that we had before 1866, so I'm not sure it's a progress either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3048	The Central Party has as its starting point an active and living regime of peoples, where decisions are taken as close as possible to people. The way in which regional reform is organised violates these conditions. It seems to me that the Christian People's Party and the Left have set in motion something that has not been fully controlled. Only giants like Troms and Finnmark, non-functional structures like the Gulf with Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud, can arise, while maintaining beautiful counties like Rogaland and More and Romesdal. Yes, the latter even peeled a little bit off to Trøndelag now in connection with the municipal reform when Halsa goes there, and Rindal has probably also sought transition. There's a paradox in it. More and Romesdal, with its 266,000 inhabitants, is thus facing the many new challenges and heavier challenges of the future, while the districts of Akershus with 600,000 inhabitants, Eastfold with 293,000 inhabitants, and Buskerud with 280,000 inhabitants, according to the Christian People's Party, Left and Government's opinion, are unable to do so. Understand the one who can. Neither Eastfold, Akershus or Vestfold have positive decisions that end up in the Viking region – perhaps not so strange, all the time it is difficult to see the overall regional advantage of the community and of these three counties, as the Christian People's Party points out in its remarks that it should be. That's why I believed in the Christian People's Party. I had a hope that they would land right and give people a reason to respectfully raise their eyebrows by showing that politicians can also turn in time when you discover that you're actually on wild roads. If you read the party's comments, the party even writes that the Viking is disproportionate, and that it is an important goal for the party that there is consistency between the regional state and the new county boundaries. Therefore, the party wonders at the government's playoff to divide Nav into an east and a west bay. Yes, too, the party should be wondering about the new police districts, the division of health businesses, and not least the statesmen, who should be in common with, for example. The fold and the county of Oslo, to mention some nearby stations that in the future are not going to match the new state level. The lot also writes in the notes that it assumes ‘a sufficient transfer of tasks to the counties’. But as far as I can see, the Christian People's Party has not made any demands on what tasks it believes should be assigned to this new level of administration. In the meantime, the consolidation processes continue with unimpaired strength and force, with what it entails by the cost and wear and tear of human resources. The question that remains then is: Does the Christian People's Party seriously believe that they can help to scrape the Week if you don't get significant new tasks, and what are the Christian People's Party's tasks that will happen? What regional advantage does the Christian People's Party believe that the Viking, who will extend from the West in the west to the Swedish border in the east, has, divided by a fjord and a capital in the middle?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3061	If the hall is in doubt, I'm from Buskerud, and I'll talk a little bit about the construction of Viken, me too. We have sometimes heard in the election campaign, when we stand on the street, the expression 'politicist contempt'. Sometimes we can feel it, and I have to say that when the construction Viken got on the track, I realize that it can negate under such an expression. This is almost political madness. We've got a region with no content and no tasks, like the other regions. I want to say that in many ways this is like carrying oats to a dead horse, at least a half-dead one, because the middle parties are involved in maintaining something that the blue-blue don't want. At home we have a window post with flowers that I don't have the heart to throw. They're dying. But we put them in that window post, and then we win them a little bit, but then they die eventually. I have the feeling that this region division, and the Viking especially, is such a flower as the one in my window post. And then the representative Hareide and the left comes and won the flower for a little while, and then we'll see how this works. I don't understand what the Christian People's Party has done. I am very disappointed in the Christian People's Party, and then I think it is sad that the leader of the Christian People's Party is not here in the Chamber and defends that decision. It may be that the manager himself was not so enthusiastic about the decision. It's possible. We've got what many call the smoldering around Oslo, from – as I say – Hol to Whaler, with an enormous concentration of geography and land and soil, without any particular tasks. So the Christian People's Party representative here says that they're going to be involved in an investigation after what this region should contain. It was then a strange procedure to make an investigation and discuss tasks after the region was established – a strange procedure. Why such a hurry, why such a deal? I don't get it. I hope that there will be a few more laps, that there will be another chance. What's going on, the previous one's asking questions to the left -- what's going on in order for them to change their mind. It will be interesting to see this discussion in the future, but think a little about the voters. I'll say that so everyone in the hall hears it: think of our voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3076	As the draft representative says to say no to the coercion of Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud to the Vikings, this is an unfinished reform. Yes, actually, the many coercive mergers of major regions do not deserve the term reform at all. They are simply the result of a mere political craft. There are only lines on a map, based on old boundaries. The Minister of Local Affairs should also have used the opportunity to carry out a proper reform of democracy and political governance, but he has not. For this reason, he encounters strong resistance, including from those who were initially positive to change, for example. My own county municipality, Buskerud, with the county rapporteur from the Workers' Party. In contrast to the Right and Advance Party, the Labour Party is committed to developing, not to liquidating regional democracy. We want to strengthen popular political power at the expense of administrative power in directorates and regional states, which are divided into all over objectives according to the wishes of the different sectoral authorities, individually. The result is a vortex of a patchwork across and across, where the individual county municipality is part of different constellations, from one case area to another. Police are one, transportation is another, health is a third, etc. etc. It's a good recipe to ensure the influence of bureaucracy at the expense of the elected representatives. A reformative municipal minister should have addressed this problem – how to strengthen democracy at regional level. There is one way to do it: to transfer power and authority at regional level from state institutions to democratic, elected bodies. Then you start talking about tasks, not limits. Then the minister would have had a completely different situation. Then he had avoided using coercion. Then he could have got people and people elected with him, not against him. But it is no secret that the main desire of the Right and the Advance Party is to liquidate, not to develop regional democracy. The result will be less democracy and another revolution on the centralisation screw. The Bushman state has, like most others, given its clear feedback. They do not want a hitherto unknown shortage of semantic functions, based on the merits of State sector bodies. They will have the power to be community developers in what is a natural community of living and working. They want authority in land planning, transport, business development, education, culture, climate and integration. They will help to achieve national objectives and guide the development of key areas such as work, business development, experiences, implementation of the green shift and an inclusive society with room for all. The Right Party government is going in the wrong direction, and the protests are of course coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3089	What's going to happen later tonight when we're going to vote on this case, I'll characterize it as a political accident. That shouldn't have happened. What we have in front of us is, of course, a significant centralisation of the political structures in Norway, and thus a reduction in the power of the elected people. Think of all the state policies that are now being set aside and replaced by large administrations. That in itself is a major challenge for the political system in Norway. But that's not the most important thing, as I see it. The most important thing is to establish a system for the national governance of Norway at regional level that is so different. I've been following the debate all day just to be able to form a picture of what's the argument that you accept that some states remain alone while making other major regions. How dare you do that – seriously, in Stortinget – in order to establish something you think will be better than what we have today, again without having entered the tasks? How dare you, and on top of all this: under great resistance? The completion after filling after filling says "cross-political" no, while the Storting says this is good. How dare you? This is a political accident that the Storting should not have caused – of course. This does not mean that these attacks on the Workers' Party, which come from the Council of State and others, are at all relevant. We say we should have strong regions, we say we should have necessary reforms, but we cannot adopt anything that is neither political head nor tail – because that is exactly what we are doing. Why is there no one from the government parties and from the middle parties who is able to come up here and explain what is the real reason for such a construction, which is so different and without specific content? I don't understand that, and it makes me very worried. That's why I think it's a good cover to say that this is a political accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3098	Today is a sad day for my county, Hedmark, and for the other coerced states. Regional reform is a fact. It is a regional reform that is the result of regular coercion from the government, because none of the county councils want to join forces. It is a regional reform that is currently totally without content. ‘New ideas and better solutions’ have been the mantra of the government of Solberg. But what are the ideas and solutions? What are the tasks now to be addressed in a better way in the new regions? That question still seems to be a mystery. Instead of looking at what tasks can be solved at regional level, and then proposing appropriate territorial breakdowns, the Norwegian Map has begun to sit down in an office in the government quarter and draw up a new map with no purpose and meaning. When the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner, came to the first joint assembly with Hedmark and Oppland on 24 October of this year, I sat in the Chamber as a county representative, and I was greatly provoked by the way the council behaved, which illustrated to me the overrun the states have always felt. Now the country's state politicians have a historic chance to participate in developing the regional level, now they have an opportunity, said the state councils of state politicians – as if we were unable to think of our own best self. No, I'll say to the Council of State, it's not an opportunity, it's a coercion that we're imposed on. Furthermore, the Council of State spent its speaking time chattering with the distances that will arise in the new regions. He drew out the Viking as an example and thought that the distance from Halden to Hallingdal was not very long. And then he went on to Uppland and said that for them there wasn't much greater distances with the new regions. Again: As if the state council knows better than the inhabitants of Hedmark and Uppland what it is like to live at long distances, and what are long distances! He said nothing about the fact that the Week is going to house 1.2 million people, have great differences in culture and structure and be divided by Oslo in the middle. He also did not mention that Hedmark and Oppland are going to be about. 5 000 km2 larger than Denmark, and that about 20 countries in Europe are going to be smaller than the new Hedmark–Oppland region. In the end, the Council of State came up with a advice and said, "Be a voice to one another, think of one another, think of another, think of another!" I would like to send that advice back. I would like to call on the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and especially the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner, to speak out against the state politicians who have put their feet down and said clearly that this region will not have them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3109	Today, we are adopting a division of states that is better suited to the societal challenges we face. The county limits have remained still for over 100 years. Then we used horses and carts, no one had heard of data, digitization or automation. The university had come so far to Oslo after a long draw, and higher education was for the few and privileged. So the community has moved on, but the structures are the same. Modernisation and conversion require structural changes, but it is usually in human nature to be skeptical about changes, at least if you don't have to. Before we went to the tax office, we went to the municipality, and we went to the bank. Now we have these services digitally, so that you're so very concerned about travel, I'm very surprised. A lot of what we're doing, we're actually at home doing with the laptop in jail. I'm concerned that we're going to have larger and more functional county municipalities. In the case of the dilapidated Viking, from which I come, I just get to say – from here – that I am actually happy to cooperate with representatives from both Akershus and Østfold. What we're doing with the Viking is strengthening his position with Oslo. A common Viking region makes it easier for us to solve the problems in the years to come. Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold have many things in common, but this is especially true of our being in a common housing and labour market area with Oslo. We would like to have had with Oslo in the new region, but we respect that Oslo wants to stand alone. The question was whether to stop the reform, but it was right-wing disagreement. For us, there are several problems this new region has to solve. In particular, it concerns transport projects, which are large and extensive, and which will closely link this region, inter alia. the railway. I want to mention the Ringerix track, which makes it shorter from Gol to Sandvika than it is from Gol to Drammen today. The working party spends a lot of time telling us that this is a unfinished reform because the tasks are not in place. But it was seen that the Workers' Party did not get any regional reform in the previous period. What is actually the Labour Party's alternative? I haven't seen it. Politicians must be the result of maintaining what is today considered to be a dying horse. The county council in its current division is the fish, and it needs renewal and replanting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3125	Now, when we gather Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud in a new state, we at the same time strengthen the region's position towards Oslo. A common Viking region makes it easier for us to solve important problems in the years to come. The three counties have many things in common, including: that they all participate in a common housing and labour market with Oslo. Oslo should, of course, be part of the new region, but we respect that they want to stand alone, and are convinced that the new cooperation will be a strength for the region. The counties are responsible for the secondary schools. By gathering Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold in a new region, we make it much easier for students living near the county boundaries to decide which school to go to. If they live in Lier, it'll be easier to choose school in Asker. They live in Vestby, it's easier to go to school in Moss. In addition, it will make it easier for politicians to plan which school services we should have where, so that we can offer students our best possible professional environments and thus better education. Many who live in either Buskerud, Akershus, or Østfold work in Oslo. This means that the county councils, among others. must work closely together on transport projects, so that the roads and rail lines are adapted to the needs we have. Today, when we have three different county councils negotiating with Oslo and the state in many projects, it is difficult to reach agreement, and it is difficult to reach agreement. With a comprehensive Week, we ensure a much better balance in the negotiations, where we have two equal parties on each side of the negotiating table. In this way, we can ensure a more comprehensive planning of housing development, infrastructure and the development of our business. Distance, size and tasks have been used as counter-arguments by opponents of a new regional structure. But when the red-greens had the government responsibility, they established Health South-East, in the folk mouth called 'Health St.'. Then these games had no counter-conceptions related to either size or distance. Because let's look at the numbers. While there's 285 km between Halden and Hallingdal, there's 750 km between Bjorli in Oppland and Mandal in West Agder. While there are over 9,000 employees in the three counties, there are 77 000 in Health South-East, i.e. eight times as many. The Week has 1.2 million inhabitants to provide services to, while Health South-East has to provide specialist health services to 2.9 million people. So to those who use size as counter-argument, I would say that the new region is actually going to be less than what Hedmark states are today. But the biggest paradox is that while we are debating the matter here today, all the county councils in Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud have already agreed that the new county council should be called the Viken, and it should be composed of the three counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3140	There are too many sad forced stories we hear here in the hall – and I will also talk about one of these. In these days, the county councils of Telemark and Vestfold must sit and negotiate a merger that none of them want. Its strong aversion to the coercion has been shown in decisions and has been repeated over and over again, but they are not heard. The population in these states also does not want this aggregation, and before the elections, polls showed that more than seven out of ten telemarks were against being joined together with Westfold. This merger does not want telemarking because he knows that with a coercive merger with the small geographical area, but the more people-rich Westfold there will be an even greater movement of power and jobs, resources, services and offers from Telemark to Westfold than the one with which the government has already hit Telemark. For only in the last growing-up period have two hospitals been laid down, the County Council has decided to move to Vestfold, the police chief and her staff, money and lots of people have moved to Vestfold, the emergency centre has to be moved there, the state attorney's office has to be moved there, and the main seat of the University of South East Norway is in Westfold. And what has gone the other way? Minimum. Few believe that centralization away from Telemark will stop the coercion with Westfold. It is evident that coercion will in particular weaken Upper Telemark with its large distances and completely different challenges and not least opportunities than what you have experience from and focus on in Westfold. That's why they're against it. Christian People's Party politicians in Telemark are also opposed. But do they listen to their own bigotry? Until now, it may seem that they have completely turned the deaf ear to, unfortunately. But I can't let go of having a very little hope that the Christian People's Party in the end listens to its own, and that they're on track with the residents of Telemark. I hope that they also know the gut feeling and their sense of justice, considering whether it is right that states like Telemark and Vestfold have to be coerced together, while More and Romsdal have the opportunity to remain as a state of their own. I hope not least that they also know in their hearts whether there is still room there for districts in this country. For the former district-friendly Christian People's Party will really contribute to all the centralisation that regional reform puts up, among other things. in Telemark? I didn't think so. Many Christian People's Party electors didn't think so. In this room today, the Christian People's Party has the opportunity to show that it is still a party for the districts, for the administration of the people and against the coercion of the state by voting against the coercion of the state, such as that of Telemark and Vestfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3153	It feels strange and ironic that my very first post at Stortinget is about the beginning of the end of the county that sent me here, namely Eastfold. Tomorrow will meet in general in the new Week for the first time. There are few who go to work with a lot of eagerness and enthusiasm. Forces create their own dynamics of abstinence, resignation and self-interest. I want this house to be very aware that when you put question marks on and partly ridicule the Viking, the region that extends from Halden to the Hallingsharvet, from Stroemstad to Sogn and Fjordane, it's actually not the size of the problem. After the regional reform, the Viken will actually become the third or fourth largest state in the country after Troms and Finnmark, after the Inland – and maybe even after Trøndelag. What's the problem with the Viking is that this is a unit no one recognizes in, no one has any kind of identity with and no one wants. All three counties have said no to the Vikings, and I can also reassure the assembly that everyone has adopted – as late as in Eastfold yesterday – that if the Stortinge gives it a chance, you will dissolve it all. Nevertheless, it is primarily about creating a unity that is more than double the size of the population as the next state. The average of all the other regions after the regional reform is about 300,000 inhabitants — about where Eastfold is already. This does not give comparable units. You'll never dry to use this muscle and the tool you've created. In addition, there is a huge democratic deficit and a lack of representativeness. This is the recipe for rematch. We believe that Østfold can well have more tasks and handle them alone. That being said, the Labour Party is not opposed to regional reform, but it must be voluntary, it must make sense, and it must provide better services for its citizens. So far we can't see that the Week answers any of these assumptions. It was therefore extra sin that the Christian People's Party did not have the courage or the will to divide this mastodon into two. An Eastern Week, consisting of Eastfold, Follo and Romerike, would be something people could recognize in and nocturnal to, and it would be just a little bit larger than the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3166	I'm not going to hide that the Right basically believes that there is no need for a popular level between state and municipalities to provide good services to both people and business. The best thing was to make sure that we had given even more power and authority to the municipalities, so that the decisions were taken closer to where people live. But the government has taken on board the realities: the government wants to maintain a strong regional level. At the same time, Stortinget wants a different division than what we've had in the past. Therefore, only six months ago, we decided to merge 13 counties into six new regions. By 2020, we will be left with eleven regions. We get a structure that makes the regions better able to fulfil their role as a social developer. They are better placed to build good housing and labour market regions. They can see transport and land management in a larger context. In the future, it is also necessary to assess which tasks can be carried out by these regions. Major regions provide the prerequisites for accepting more tasks, and I look forward to receiving the recommendations of the Committee of Experts in February. I'm from Trendelag myself. It is a state that the Workers' Party and the Centre really regard as a success linked to the regional reform, but one should really believe – if you follow the Workers' Party and the Center's reasonings – that the merger of the Trøndelags was a failure. First of all, it is much further from Namskogan in the north-Trøndelag to Oppdal in the south-Trøndelag than it is from the Hallingskarvet to Halden. The County rapporteur of Tøndelag, Tore O. Sandvik, says on his side that a total of threshings get more impact, the area gets bigger, the population gets more, and the nutrient structure becomes even more varied. So it's not like the area in the time we're now going into, in itself can be an argument against seeing larger regions in context. Secondly, the Trondelags have been merged before you have received more tasks. First of all, it's not very unusual that you have to have some structures in place before you choose what to do. And secondly, if the Workers' Party had listened to their own representatives in Trøndelag, they would have heard Tore O. Sandvik, who is the county rapporteur, say that it was absolutely necessary to do something about the regional structure in order for the regions to be able to undertake more tasks. Continuing with 19 county councils would never have given more tasks, but would have led to an impoverishment. I'm afraid we're not getting any closer to knowing what regional reform the Labour Party and the Centre really want. But what we can be sure of is that we can now move on with the work to make sure that the regions get more work done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3181	The Week was adopted here in June against a significant minority. Today, Stortinget has an opportunity to revoke that decision. The state suite Johan P. Olsen once developed a model that is suitable for explaining how decisions are made in institutions. What he called the Garbage Can model, gives particular insight into what lies behind irrational decisions. Today, unfortunately, I feel as part of a case, as the Garbage Can model can explain: the decisions of the majority of the population are about to take today, are difficult to understand and explain if you expect rational behaviour. Frankly, the fold – the merger of Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud – is the region that nobody wants, except for a handful of politicians here in this room. It is worrying that such an important decision — with major societal implications — is the result of the games of chance rather than of well-considered choices. Martin Kolberg called it a political accident. I think people expect something completely different from the Norwegian potion. They expect the representatives to take decisions that reflect the majority of the people's wishes, or at least to choose the option that gives the best result according to the wishes of a majority in the UK. But it won't be like that. The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party take a decision that is both contrary to what the people want, and contrary to the intentions of the regional reform that the Stortinget itself has adopted. The cove was adopted despite hearings where most municipalities in Akershus thanked neatly no. The week was decided in spite of the fact that the municipalities involved did not want to be in the Week. It is respected that Oslo will be outside, but one does not respect Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud. The Week was adopted across the scope of regional reform, and it has less distance to do and more about what regional reform is supposed to do. It aims to create functional regions, which can face important challenges of population growth, of transport, of industrial development, etc. The week without Oslo has no factual reason. The Week isn't going to solve any of the common challenges that Akershus and Oslo face, but it's going to create a lot of new ones. I hope that the Storting is conscious of its responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3194	This coercion of the states is unreal. Martin Kolberg said it was a political accident. I want to say that it will create more chaos, and most people will wake up when reality comes out. The fold and aggregation of Troms and Finnmark are good examples. They're giant regions, either in the population or in the area. If people had traveled more in the territory we're talking about here, one would have understood more of the depth of what I'm saying. The responsibility for this lies with the Christian People's Party, because the Right Party and the Advance Party are against three elected levels, and the Left has neither municipalities nor regions large enough. It is the Christian People's Party that has the doubt in it, and so the doubt has fallen to the right. The elected representatives are ombudsmen and ombudsmen. How the role is carried out is crucial for respect for the elected representatives. It's not possible for people elected in the Gulf, with 1.2 million inhabitants and an area from Halden to Halne at Hardangervidda, to do a good job. It is not possible to have a good overview of, for example, secondary schools and county roads in the large area. Had more people traveled and felt what was happening, a better person understood this. I have some experience from Buskerud. It's hard enough to be a contractor for Buskerud if you're going to sense what's going on, and what's the most important thing about that area. There's a lot of work. This coercion will strengthen the political debate, and it does not have popular support. The four parties don't sense what's going on among people. It is not in accordance with regional country. We have a hub, we have a police department, we have a road service, and we have an emergency agency that's different from what's now going to be established. It has not been taken into account. There is no match between the regioning and the constituency of Stortinget, and I will not be able to as a contractor for Buskerud to place decisive emphasis on what the Viken regioning determines about transportation in Buskerud, because I am chosen by the people of Buskerud. Fortunately, the districts of the Stortinget are enshrined in the Constitution. Today's decision will not be a permanent solution. We are faced with a work in the counties that is going to drain the counties for forces and money, and the result is greater bureaucracy. We're going to get away from a government that started with the presidential laws in 1837, and we're going to get even more emphasis on the official state.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3213	There are a few things I've learned after just a few months on Stortinget. One is that things take time. The second is that more of the debates we have in this room are characterized by the fact that we don't let out so often. We can stand here on the pulpit and give ourselves up to the very large heights of some state boundary, we can characterize each other, other states or the process of more or less parliamentary expression. The reality we in this room should take over, is that most people don't care about what we're discussing right now. Most people don't care if the Workers' Party is in favour of regional reform, but later on as if they're against it. Most people don't care if it's called ‘BTV’ or if it's called ‘Westfold and Telemark’ or ‘Telemark and Vestfold’. Most people don't agree that the Workers' Party in Buskerud and Eastfold fought hard for Viken, and then to change their mind, because some of the guys in the party found out that it was tricked before the election. What people care about is having a safe school path to send the children of farms in the morning, whether they reach the job that day because the bus goes or does not go, and whether the school that the daughter starts on the next harvest is good and safe. They're concerned about whether the services we provide are good, and then it's almost at the limit of humorous to hear the representative Kolberg's warm care for the county politicians. It's not a pity for the county politicians. I'm one of them, so I'm allowed to say it. If we get fewer of them, it's far from any accident, as Kolberg called it. For me, who is from Westfold, this becomes a bit of a strange debate – not because of the many reminders we have heard from the pulpit, but because our local politicians have moved on. Locally in Westfold is the focus on the future, not the past. In Westfold, we are concerned about how Westfold and Telemark can be best suited to our citizens: how should schools improve? How are roads going to be safer? How are jobs going to be more? We politicians – especially in this room – should become a little less concerned with ourselves and a little more concerned with our citizens. That is what the debate here today is showing very clearly. The time has come for us to become constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3224	As others have said – we have also said it ourselves from the Left – we have been an instigator together with the Christian People's Party over the last four major periods in order to modernize the state in particular. The state is one of the challenges here, and it's growing a little more daunting than we would have liked in terms of both the number of positions and government divisions and different organizations. In the data age, it should be possible to coordinate and harmonise this in a slightly different way than the digital conglomerate we are currently engaged in. Trying out and experimenting when you're on your way to a renewal is also an important part of this. When has trials taken place in the county council in Norway? We can go back to, for example. The Bondevik II Government. That's when we tried unit states in More and Romesdal. It was also when we had the so-called Fritt Fram experiment in Uppland, where Uppland County was transferred most of the payments from different departments into one pot and distributed it to six regions in Uppland – not to 26 municipalities, but to six regions. It was for the first time with a so-called bourgeois majority in Oppland, with a county rapporteur from the Central Party, that the Fritt Fram attempt was made. 15 years later, Uppland is still rigged with the six regions and that distribution. It created a dynamic and something that is going to be a permanent change in Uppland. So I'm disappointed that the Workers' Party and the Red-Green parties have not helped to make structural and good efforts for that middle level of the states. And after one tried on a regional reform, only after picking out all the major tasks related to well-being, especially in hospitals, one took away the child protection, one took away the intoxication and psychiatry from the counties, has one not been able to replace it with any other particularly important tasks, other than more asphalt. We need to move on to modernize and decentralize the state. That is why we set up, for example. regional centre grants to new municipalities, in order to have structures in Norway that can cope with tasks, instead of draining most of the young hands out of Building-Norway to sit and work with paperwork in the big cities, when we need them in the future care and care sectors and in the welfare sector throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3237	Much has been said about the regional reform now and before, so I've decided to take a step back and think about what this really is about for me. As a socialist, I am concerned that power should be closest to the people, that it should be a short way from ordinary people to influence society and the issues of which ordinary people are affected. When I was 15-16 years old, I was an activist in Socialist Youth, and I was passionate about getting a better collective offer for youth in Eastfold. That is why we launched a campaign to prevent young people from paying adult prices on the bus. We collected signatures and contacted our county representatives – and we got a pass. Youths up to the age of 20 got their own youth ticket, which was much cheaper than adult tickets. It was a small, but important improvement of the everyday life of those it was about, but it was also so much more. It was democracy from below in practice, ordinary people who organized themselves and made changes. We had influence over decisions that pertained to our lives. This possibility is part of the core of a democracy, knowing that it actually benefits. We could do this because the distance to the district house in Sarpsborg was not very large, neither geographically nor in the transferred meaning. Could we do that if it wasn't Eastfold County, with its 280 000 inhabitants, we had to get through to, but the Viking region, with 1.8 million inhabitants and a regioning far away? I don't think so. That is what this regional reform is about, that power and participation over the everyday lives of ordinary people are being moved away from people, and not just geographically. Decisions will also become more inaccessible to ordinary people. It will make it far more difficult for ordinary people to get a say in what matters in their lives. It will give up, and renunciation is poisoned in a democracy. We're seeing around the world now what kind of forces that abstinence feel neighs below. That is why I am so disappointed that today, Østfold is being coerced with Buskerud and Akershus. Now the task for the Eastern folds and for the Easternfold politicians is very clear: we must fight even harder for the interests of ordinary people in our country in the future, and I hope that we will do whatever region we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3252	Big words and political self-crisis are used to cover the fact that the regional reform is unfinished and the vocational education system. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not want a regional level, the Christian People's Party and the Left want fewer and stronger regions, with new tasks. The compromise between these conflicting objectives has been an unyielding and chaotic reform with fewer and weaker regions. No new tasks giving the regions political weight and strength are agreed. The Left and Christian People's Party are left with more bureaucratic and hard-pressed regions, to which the few are positive or enthusiastic about. Three counties outside Oslo will continue as today. It's Nordland, More and Romesdal and Rogaland. It is not easy to see just what distinguishes these three states from other states that are to be merged by force. I'm not aware that any of these three states provide better services to their inhabitants than for example. Sogn and Fjordne, who are to be coerced. Both Northern and More and Romesdal have fewer inhabitants than Busherud and Eastfold, which are to be merged. Rogaland has fewer inhabitants than Akershus, which is to be merged. The new regions will be less uniform than the current municipalities. That's the opposite of what the Council of State claims. Today, the population varies from 75 000 to 670,000 people. In the new regions, the population will vary from 243 000 to 1 184 000 people. Nor is it easy to see what is new, modern or forward-looking by going back to the county boundaries of the West that we had from the Middle Ages until 1763. There are new times, but there are old limits to be restored. The breakdown gives a short and clearly no whole region structure. It is self-contradictory, illogical, and it bears witness to poor political craftsmanship and poor political leadership. Today is not a good day for us who want to strengthen our policy and who believe it is important to increase our participation in political work. Nor is it a good day for us to organize and build society from below. A word "unclose" has been used. I'll be careful to establish that it's a bad day for the People's Government. On the other hand, it is a good day for publishers, consultants, course holders and conference wholesalers. They'll have money to spend in the years to come. In addition, I believe we can establish that there will be some centralization out of this reform as well. At that point, neither the Right nor the Progress Party will ever fail. That's what they're supposed to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3267	When we had the debate on the regional reform in ours, the main speaker of the Christian People's Party, Geir Sigbjørn Tuskedal, went up on the pulpit and got and said that now we have got a solution no parties really want. That was what the Tuske Valley said in the debate. It illustrates this whole reform. Right doesn't want it, the Advance Party doesn't want it, the Christian People's Party doesn't want it, and in the Left there are different positions because who you ask. It is completely incomprehensible that the Storting today repeats the same mistake that you made in ours. When one asks each right-wing representative in the restaurant out here or around Norway, they say, "No, of course we don't want this reform, but we do it anyway, because of someone in the left." It's not figured out, it's not thought out. When the government came up with the proposition that announced it, it had one main reason, that it was going to be a clean-up of the regional breakdown. Then it's interesting to see what the government has actually done. It'll be eleven regions, populous regional level. That's what the government has chosen. Then they have carried out a major police reform. There's twelve, so even in the two reforms you can't have the same number. Now you have to go through Nav. There, the Viken region is divided into two, an East Viken and a West Viken, for which the same government is responsible. With regard to the number of cadastral districts, it becomes 19 and, in the case of the division of the counties, the counties of Oslo shall be the same as the counties of Oslo, Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud, so there will also be a different division. So the only reason the government used, to get a cleanup, they've done the opposite of: there's been more divisions and more messy and a solution really no parties want. Then it is, my fellow representatives, so that each co-representative is responsible for what you vote, and when you do not think this solution makes sense, please vote against it! And Christian People's Party: you are not for this solution, you are against it. It's become a solution that no batches want. Why, then, do you vote for something you disagree with? It's a very good principle: vote for what you're for, and against what you're against, especially in a matter where you don't have any enthusiasm, no glow, no belief that this is going to create a better country, just more centralization, worse solutions and more bureaucracy. It's not too late to turn around. Please follow the conviction you really have, and vote for a sensible division, not for the type of regions like the Viking, the new Finnmark and the new Inland, which have no local enthusiasm, and no local anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3277	This is really a rather sad day, because it looks like during the evening, or the night, we're going to adopt county mergers that none of the municipalities or states in question feel the need for. It's been a very bad process. Yes, democracy has been absent – perhaps as in 1781, when Christian VII was king in Norway. He had an unruly official that he thought he had to get rid of, so he divided the Uplands, so it became Christians' county and the county of Hedemark. It wasn't very democratic. But later on, we have been used to discussing the functioning of the People's Government itself, the functioning of municipalities and counties, and it has been the result of democratic processes. In this case, it has been absent. This is a reform that very few want. Then I keep outside the voluntary mergers of states, which we are in favour of, but I am talking about the coercive mergers that form the basis for the Document 8 proposal here today. This is not a regional reform. It's a aggregation of states that don't want to be merged, because there's no new ones. When we dealt with this matter here in the Chamber in ours, it was actually that the Workers' Party, together with others, made some concrete proposals as to what the new merged states could get from new tasks. But it was voted down by the government parties – and maybe they can get new jobs in the future. Arne Nävra made a good post where he, among other things, the political debate. And unlike my co-representative on the bench, Westgaard-Halle, I have registered many people who are concerned about this. And they shake their heads. Sometimes it's not just that you can shake your head over the political debate. Sometimes it's actually that you can see it. When democracy and the population are heard to such a small extent as in this case – in such an important case for the administration of democracy in Norway – I understand that people are shaking their heads. That's to understand. In Westfold we have received clear signals from voters, from local politicians and from rapporteurs that they do not want this reform. So if Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, Lene Westgaard-Halle, Erlend Larsen, Morten Stordalen and Carl-Erik Grimstad today vote for this reform, then they are sitting here and not caring for the interests of the inhabitants of Vestfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3293	There's an east fold here that's a real Viken-enthusiast. In the debate, several representatives have asked where the supporters of the reform are – and here is one of them, and we are many. I note that the representative of the Central Party from Eastfold wants a completely new democracy, in which only county representatives from the states concerned shall have the right to vote when regional matters are to be decided. In concrete terms, the representative Myhrvold stated that it is very disappointing that a party that is not represented, neither in Buskerud, Akershus or Østfold, should be involved in determining the establishment of the Viken region. And that's the Christian People's Party he's aiming for. Yesterday the county council in Østfold, also with the votes of the Workers' Party, decided to accept the establishment of the Viken region. It is a good decision, which tells me that they will now work constructively with the establishment of the new region. The decision is essentially in line with the decisions taken by the county councils in Buskerud and Akershus in November. At the same time, those who want to put the brake on today put the affected states in a challenging situation – challenging because they are concerned with yesterday’s response to tomorrow’s challenges. The whole point of the reform is just to make the regions better equipped to meet the future. The main arguments of the reform are that they do not know what to do with the new regions. However, regardless of tasks, larger regions will contribute to seeing all challenges in a wider context than today. For example, why do we have to do this? did not allow students living in Moss to choose secondary schools in Akershus, which are close to the equivalent offer in Eastfold? Why, until today, have we not managed to establish good enough collective solutions across the borders of the Oslo region? Why do we have to have different land policies in the same housing and work area just because there's a county border or two going through. The questions could have been many more. The common response is that the new region will contribute to better, more coherent and wider provision for our citizens. The bonus we get on the purchase is new tasks that move down from the state, but not least that resources can be saved on both administration and policy – resources that can be used on better service provision. The arguments that the regions are becoming different in population numbers cannot be used against the reform either. Region Viken is an equally good idea, although some other counties do not grow in size in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3312	The representative Westgaard-Halle said here from this pulpit instead that most people don't care about their states. Yes, people care, and people are against it! And it's not only the people who are opposed, but also those who are set to represent people's interests in the different states. The counties are an important unit for people in their lives. They provide important services both in higher education, collective provision, roads, in many different areas. The county is an important regional actor that can also be strengthened by new tasks. But it doesn't have one clear here now. The structure that's on the table, and the map that you've created, doesn't hang at all. Some counties are allowed to stand as today – and we in the Center Party agree that they should be allowed to do so – for example, Rogaland and More and Romesdal. But while, for example, the Moors and the Romsdal, who have less than 300,000 inhabitants today, are going to be allowed to exist as their own counties, one of them is going to join up with coercion. For example, one will merge Akershus – which already has 600 000 inhabitants – with Østfold and Buskerud. All three counties are opposed. And what is the achievement of better services, less bureaucracy or better democracy by doing something like that? There will be a much longer way for those who will try to influence their elected people — and for those elected to try to get an overview of what is happening in their region, to represent 1.2 million people. One says that one will clean up the regional organization. So one has four health regions, and one has twelve police districts, and for the new Viken region, it's neither connected with the organisation of health regions nor with new police districts, and one also has a county for Oslo and Viken. To state councillor Sanner, who said this was going to be a lot about transport: where one in the area around Oslo has a lot of cooperation on transport, is between Oslo and Akershus, where one among others. has Router and Oslopackak 3 together. But there shall be no further cooperation or coordination. No, one should build a new region, which no one in the three counties wants – and no one else in the country either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3325	In Telemark and Vestfold, since the Stortinget decided to merge the two counties on 8 June 2017, there have been many meetings between the politicians from Vestfold and Telemark. There have been objections to the division, and during the election campaign, the red-green parties guaranteed that they would reverse the decision. Today we are discussing a proposal by a representative that Telemark and Vestfold should remain as independent counties. It would be wrong to say that this has been a straightforward and simple process for the two counties, since the starting point for both counties was a decision that one wanted to have Buskerud in the regional breakdown. Since it was not a reality, it was important to look ahead and look at the potentials of the two counties of Westfold and Telemark. That was the setting of my party colleagues in Telemark and Vestfold. If it has not been a straightforward process, at least he has been constructive in Westfold and Telemark. On Monday, December 5th, County Spokesman of Vestfold, Rune Hogsnes, and County Spokesman Sven Tore Løkslid of Telemark held a press conference in which they presented proposals for agreement between the two counties. Today, Telemark's staff discussed the negotiated agreement and made a positive decision by a co-ordinator. The name has been a lot of discussion around, and it's going to be Westfold and Telemark. Furthermore, the main seat of the new county municipality is located in Skien, and political and administrative leases and what is naturally organised under it are added to Skien. The county office will be added to Tønsberg. Furthermore, it is decided that the common denominator is composed of 18 representatives from Vestfold and 16 from Telemark. It is gratifying that the two country spokesmen look ahead and highlight what they see as the advantage of their country, and how they, together with their country colleagues, can bring forward a strong region, Vestfold and Telemark. I believe that there will be an exciting region, unlike my colleague from the Telemark Center Party here instead. Telemark is large in area, with mountain landscapes, in addition to Telemark's industry and business that will be able to interact with Vestfold. Infrastructure in the form of both railways and roads binds the two counties and forms a natural working region. The merger will strengthen the strengths of growth in the region. I would like to congratulate politicians in the two counties on their work towards 1 January 2020, with the objectives of a new, strong Vestfold and Telemark County Municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3338	The decision on the merger of Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland was a democratic and voluntary decision in both counties. As previous spokespersons, I was able to follow things closely, and I must say that I have rarely or never experienced a more thorough and comprehensive process than the work that was done in connection with the regional reform – two years of investigation and clarification, information meeting, hearings, negotiations, debates and in-depth decisions. In February of this year, before the cases were finally decided in the Stortinget in spring, the company approved the Memorandum of Understanding. I am so surprised when the representative Heggø from the Labour Party went to the pulpit in this Chamber earlier this fall and put forward a proposal for a representative to reverse that very merger. In Sogn and Fjordane, 270 responses were received in the hearings about the reform. 16 out of 26 municipalities were in favour of a merger. About three quarters of the population live in the municipalities that have given their yes to the merger. The Sogn and Fjordane Labour Party held a representative meeting on 26 November last year on the theme of the reform, where they said massively yes to a Westlands merger. I experienced an enthusiastic Working Party. About the same time, the Centre Party had gathered a small flock inside Sogn, where the representative Navarsete – with a burning torch in his hands – announced the following about the reform: ‘It is so bad that it should be punishable’. It's a hold that stands in stark contrast to the offensive and constructive approach to the same reform that the governor of the same party had. I never hope we'll get there that democratic processes become criminal. The working party is undoing itself. The election campaign stood at the door, and shortly before the Stortinget had to make a decision on the regional division, they were opposed. Then a two-year work would be reversed. Local party traps and faithful Labour Party voters said that something confused and didn't know exactly what to say. Here they were to convert from enthusiasm to pessimism at record speed. This week, the country leader from the Center Party used his entire speech to the Sogn County and Fjordne County Council to talk about the county council proposal and about the time now to see possibilities over problems. The County Spokesman had the same approach – the Labour Party politician who, in June of this year, spoke against the party traps – and the Labour Party was fighting from region-yes to region-no. The decision to merge Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland is legal and democratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3351	Mr Ketil Kjenseth said to Oppland Arbeiderblad on 1 December that there is a great deal to say about nothing, what we in the Centre Party and the Labour Party have now done in connection with our Document 8 proposals that are being discussed today. He is quite right in that, because there is a great deal to say for nothing – that there should be great coercion of states that have clearly said no to this. And so there is no sign that county councils need to be strengthened. Then the representative Kjeseth confirmed in the same interview that the Left and Christian People's Party had all signed an agreement with the Right and the Advance Party in June on the state reform. So this is just going to be a new confirmation of the plural decision from June. To me, interpreting the election results in the fall of the plural parties in Hedmark and Uppland, so that there is a great deal of excitement about the coercion process for these two states, is a big mystery. I also have to say that the majority in this case is a strange grouping. In Question Time here in the Chamber on 8 November, the municipal minister said that the government parties would actually put down the county council, but that it was the left who had got through this division. The leader of the Christian People's Party, Knut Arild Hareide, said on his side during the election campaign that this division that they voted for in June was just a draft that appeared to be an unfinished product. Former Mayor of Oslo and County of Westfold, Erling Lae, said in connection with the National Meeting in Right this year: ‘I have not met a single person who is able to explain the reform. But it's found in Stortinget as part of a compromise. Shall we reorganise Norway on the basis of a flight idea in one of the smaller parties on the Stortinget?’» Here's the Right with the Lae unlikely matching. It's only the left who thinks that this division that's now on the table is a good idea, and Kjeseth, who is elected from Uppland, who is the case spokesman for the proposal to lift the decision on the merger of Hedmark and Uppland, is thus a good idea to ignore, overestimate and overrun the clear multiple-tales in the county that were against this coercion of the two states. So I also hear the representative, Mr Kjeseth, talk today about creating a cushioning of competitiveness, among other things. between Raufoss and Tynset. Then one might wonder how one might think that this is going to happen by establishing a double-size state like Hedmark and Uppland. Does the Left and the Kjeseth have any information other than us when there is going to be a dithering between the different parts of today's two states? I still have the privilege of listening to an article that tells of the genius of this forced reform, which is characteristic of this whole reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3369	In order to carry out a reform, it must have content — a content that includes new tasks and contains not least financial resources. What's now done is just to draw new line boundaries. The Giant Province of Troms and Finnmark is growing larger than a number of countries, such as Ireland, the Netherlands and Belgium. It's about a county of 74,495 km2. It's over a quarter of Norway. Joining Finnmark and Troms has nothing to do with it. The only thing that comes out of the merge is that the distances get even larger. In October there was a joint assembly between Troms and Finnmark, where Troms’ representatives had to travel to the churches. Councillor Sanner has asked us to speak out in the implementation of the regional reform. What kind of roughness does the Council of State Sanner show by not showing up in the common county he himself has forced through? The Council of State chose to give priority to an recruitment in the Right. But who knows – perhaps the Council of State thought it was too far to travel to the churches? I can tell you that the Council of State actually had a shorter journey from Oslo to the Church than those who had to travel from Harstad to the Church. This collection lasted one day, and it cost Troms County more than 1 million. kr because you had to charter a plane to get there. So the two northernmost states have to pay more than 1 million. kr for each county collection. I noticed that the representative Trellevik said we would save money to merge the counties by delegating some of the county rapporteurs. Then I think Trellevik has to re-create his math. Then he can assume that a county collection in the northernmost states is going to cost over 1 million. kr. In addition, state policies should travel around the country and carry out their tasks. You can only do that with airplanes, and the cost of air tickets is on average $8,000, and you have to spend a long time travelling. So I'm going to challenge Trellevik and the Right to reset a saving potential to figure out what it's actually going to cost Finnmark and Troms to merge. This country is screaming for one reform, but it is neither today's municipal reform nor regional reform. What Norway needs is a historical, debureaucratic reform of the country and also the relocation of state enterprises and jobs out of the regions. But it is not possible to do that in this reform, because this reform is only about distances that you do not know the consequences of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3380	Together with the representative Rigmor Aasrud, I have proposed that Uppland and Hedmark should remain as maritime counties and not be forced to join a region. This proposal has been promoted because the county councils in both counties have clearly opposed such a merger. Upland Workers' Party also has a unanimous decision on the same, in particular justified by the lack of new tasks, and we have made the choice that we would make about the Stortingen's coercive decision in ours whether we came into government. I am not opposed to major regions, provided that the starting point is greater responsibility and more tasks – tasks that are best addressed by a politically selected regional level. The government and the support parties, on the other hand, do things in the wrong order, if there are at all more important tasks, and in addition, they carry out a new division, i.e. by coercion. Good process? No! No! But we must note that there will be coercion. We knew that our rematch had bad odds, but we took it anyway, with a little hope that the Christian People's Party would free itself from forced use. The attitude shows that the decisions that were made in ours will not be changed, and then we have to deal with that. But then I really expect the government to do the goodwill when this council of experts hopefully comes up with many good proposals for new tasks for the new county municipalities. Government parties must then remove all previous resistance to the regional level and show that they have faith and confidence in the new county councils. A new breakdown alone is no reform. The Workers' Party has previously presented a list of relevant tasks that will be well taken care of by the new counties. The government should take that list seriously. Everyone will be well served if we could gather to a large extent on new tasks. Despite the dissatisfaction with the government’s coercive use and lack of task description, the two municipalities in the Inland region have related to the government’s established process, and from the state of Oppland, there has also been cross-political outburst in the further process. Nevertheless, there is a lot that is demanding, not least functional distribution – I deliberately call it that, as in our time it will be both unnecessary and wrong to gather all administration in one place. Name is another challenge. Many of us think the historical Upland sounds good. An agreement on the form of governance shall also be reached. Meeting with the county councils in Hedmark and Uppland was agreed on 14 December by the state council Jan Tore Sanner. This meeting naturally becomes very important for work and cooperation in the future. But again, I think a lot would be easier to deal with if a future portfolio of tasks had been on the table. There is, of course, a strong link between tasks and structure. I'm also struggling to see the logic of a lot of the adopted geographical breakdown, which several people here have been in. But then it should be said that the Inland – or what the name now becomes – is probably not the strangest construction, whether it becomes very large.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3397	I am extremely disappointed with the government, the Left and perhaps especially with the Christian People's Party, because although no one is satisfied with the new regions, no one is able to put down their feet and stop the senseless regions and the coercive mergers that we are dealing with here tonight. The signals from the elected representatives have been quite clear. The counties want to exist as their own counties. Several in the Christian People's Party have suggested that the party should turn around, and in particular there has been strong criticism of the construction of the Viking. When the representative Bransdal announced on 21 November that the Christian People's Party would not turn around, she herself said that she was not so excited about the Viking. We know that the Right Party and the Advance Party will not have a regional level at all. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has been quite clear on that, Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has been quite clear on it, at the latest during debates in the Stortingen this autumn, and they must also take their share of responsibility. So the situation is that the county councils in the coercive counties do not want the new regions. The majority of the population will not have the new regions. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are not satisfied with the new regions. The opposition does not want the new regions. Why the Christian People's Party and the government are so strong in the belief that this is still a right decision, is incomprehensible to me. Thus, despite their own opinions, the Christian People's Party ensures a majority for regional reform, although the Christian People's Party knows very well that the Right and the Advance Party really do not want a regional level at all, and that this is the basis for this regional reform. So they have led the Right Party and the Advance Party a step closer to their dream of not having a level at all by adopting a dilution of the elected regional level. We in the Center Party have always been completely crystal clear that volunteering must be based on aggregation. We'll listen to people. But the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left choose to use their political power on a suspended project based on unanswered questions, has no content and has no popular anchoring. Today we are witnessing that the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left form a majority to force through a region even though none of the parties are really satisfied with the result. It is incomprehensible and poor political craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3412	According to the decision on the coercion of county municipalities, Troms and Finnmark have started negotiations in full. Started with a joint meeting for the county councils. The first thing that happened was that you had to move the meeting out of the county capital because of the lack of hotel capacity. Then we heard instead that you even had to charter your own plane to get there. Negotiations quickly showed that there was considerable disagreement on key issues, both in terms of organisation and objectives. One party wanted the presidency model, another wanted parliamentaryism. There is also disagreement about where the main seat should be, about electoral arrangements, etc. The counties also have great differences in history, industries, culture and resource availability. To look a little humorous at it all, you can say that Troms and Finnmark would never have had a match with Tinder. We've all seen on the map how big this state is. You won't be able to compare this state with, for example. Denmark, and that is because of the lack of infrastructure. The distances are terribly long, and there are a maximum of 2-3 flight departures per day. The central party will also ask, how many states do we have as borders to three countries? That's what the new state is going to do. One of these countries is, in fact, the great act of Russia. East Finland has a strong relationship with Russia, both historically and today, both formally and in people-to-people cooperation. In Finland, we have common schools and kindergartens, and we have common health and preparedness cooperation. Locally, one feels very strongly about the fact that, in central Norway, only neighbouring Sweden is mentioned. We fear that a large region where the majority do not have this history and experience will not care for our neighbourly relationships as we wish. Finally, I would like to raise the Finnmark Act and the ongoing clearance of rights. The Finnish law used decades to mature to be adopted at all, and the Commission’s investigation work is far from complete. It is very doubtful whether it is credible in the future to believe that it is possible to have one area within a state to have a special law and special rights. The Central Party is convinced that in the north too one knows one's own best, and it is going to be totally wrong to force a merger against the will of the people. In the case of the Christian People's Party, it is incomprehensible that one says that one was, is and remains faithful to the principle of volunteering, but nevertheless will vote against the lifting of coercion decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3438	The aim of the county reform was to get new and larger counties with a more even distribution of inhabitants between the counties. It would allow for the transfer of new tasks from state to state, thus contributing to the transfer of power from central state to region. Not much of the objective could be taken into account in the treatment of coercion by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on 8 June this year. The transfer of new essential tasks to the counties has not been decided and the difference in the counties' population is greater than ever. There have been many comments on this hopeless reform in the media. It seems like a reform for the sake of reform. I've never understood why we're going to have such a reform. The county council is handling today's tasks well. There have been huge differences in the regions. There is no logical division. The limits are drawn before the tasks are known, and it must be that the tasks control the size of the regions. Now it seems as if the size is in the cabin and weather. No, I'm not the one who said this. There is no central party that has pronounced this. It is a central right-wing politician, Erling Lae, former County of Vestfold and former Vice-Chairman of the Right, who has said this. But I agree with him in every word. We know that the regional reform is driven by a compromise between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Good compromises are well known to policy, but this is a form of compromise that has not been achieved by each party. We're going to keep the county level, but we're going to get new counties with an illogical and unfortunate geographic composition, and they're going to be dysfunctional. We're getting new states that are motivated by a transfer of power from the central state to the population-driven regional level, but we don't know which tasks are to be transferred. At best we can know that when the government's expert committee has come up with its proposals. It is indicative of the state reform that, after the decision was taken in June, several of those who voted in favour of the new county division stood up and regretted that it was going as it went. We had adopted a regional reform, but the boundaries we set between the states should have been different, they all said. The size should do as the county councils ask. The coercion decisions should be repealed. The county councils are well equipped to handle the tasks they have today, and if there are to be assessments of new divisions, the counties themselves should be allowed to assess the tasks to be solved. It was the representative of Skkelstad who said today that we have to build the house before we furniture. I know that he has just built himself a new face, and I'm pretty sure he found out whether he should have hens or cows, before he built it feathered. We should have done the same in this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3478	Today the horse dealer in the back room says that we end up with a decision no batches want. We get a map of Norway where it seems as if the right side has thrown darts in the blinds on the map of Norway to determine which counties to merge: Little Moor and Romsdal consists, folk-rich Akershus are to be merged with not just one big county, but two. Massive Finnmark is merged with Troms and accounts for a quarter of Norway's area, while small Oslo is going to last. That's why this is a sad day for Stortinget. Not because it is wrong to make changes, but because the changes are bad. SV could initially be involved in a decision today — on a regional reform that could create strong regions and where we could move tasks away from the state, as SV has suggested. Real red tape, for better services for people, we get if we move decisions away from the state and down and closer to people. That's also how we can bring down the differences in power and wealth. SV wanted to move hospitals to a regional level with popular control. The change to health enterprises has been bureaucratic and bad for the health sector. We want more time and trust and decisions taken closer to people. We could have done that today with a good regional reform. Instead of making such a decision – together – today, we were served sloppy work without content that no one really supports. In the debate in Akershus in the election campaign, nobody, even some of the right-wing representatives, would defend the regional reform as it is. None of them would defend putting Akershus down. It's a sad day for Stortinget and the right side of Norway. This horse trade gives us a reform that nobody wants, and that does not help to solve the climate problems or the increasing differences in power and wealth. It's a pointless reform, and I'm happy to vote with SV against this masquerade.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3491	The President will state that'sloppy' is not a normal parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3496	I'm not going to go into the joint meeting that Sanner asked the county councils in Troms and Finnmark to hold, which cost one million – wasted money. The worst thing is that it doesn't seem like the majority here is taking over at all that we're throwing money out of the window that way. Being able to draw a map without the involvement of those who live there is not a great art of statesmanship – on the contrary. The craft is miserable, and we're left with a dysfunctional region. It is not the representatives of greatness, either from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left or the Christian People's Party, who are going to struggle with the consequences of that decision. That burden is actually the Finnmarks themselves that have to bear. Society has changed. Yeah, but the distances are the same, they're the same. We live in a country more diverse in population and geography. This reform does not take our demographic and geographical challenges into account. When Sanner claims that the merger of Troms and Finnmark will strengthen the Northern Region policy, yes, we are surprised, and then we will listen carefully. It sounds completely unreasonable. The right-wing Party government has not defined the north as Norway’s main strategic area, as defined by the red-greens. How the merger of Troms and Finnmark will change that, is a mystery to me. The government has down-priorityed the north. The merger of Troms and Finnmark is part of this down-priority. How can the majority live with this centralization and think or claim that they are developing North Norway? I fear that Finnmark is the biggest loser after dealing with this matter, and it actually hurts me. I think it's tragic. The Finnmarks Act is part of this image. We have a law that is limited to the area of Finnmark. It is possible that we can find technical solutions to that, I don't ignore that, but it will complicate everything. I don't think anything is being changed through this debate, because the majority is using their power. But this is not going to develop democracy in the north, unfortunately. It's incredibly sad, and I think it's a sad day for County of Finnmark – and for me as Finnmarking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3511	Here's a lot of depression, here's a lot of dark thoughts, and here's a very little hope for the future. It is at best to look at what status we have today, and be retrospective. Me and the Christian People's Party want to look forward. It has been said that the Right and the Advance Party do not want this reform. That's absolutely true, but they've made an agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party that we should make a good reform together. Then I choose to take them on the word. The working party, SV and the Center Party are very concerned that this is bad, and that the county councils can solve the problems that are. We have a regional level of rotting today, and that's because there's not enough work to do. I haven't heard a dynamic thinking, forward, about what to really fill this with – no, it's just that the map is getting so wrong. That's what we've been busy about all day – that the map is wrong. Even seniors from several parties swing up on the big oratorial heights here, with the history of a hundred years, that this should be one of the worst things that have happened. Even for one who believes as hard as the Christian People's Party does, it's to draw it a little too far, simply. It has been said that the responsibility lies with the Christian People’s Party – yes, clearly. The responsibility lies with the Christian People's Party. But the responsibility lies with other parties. The Christian People's Party shall assume the responsibility of the Christian People's Party, but we are not solely responsible. Here, four cooperating parties have taken responsibility for finding good solutions. No, the breakdown is not optimal. It is said that the Christian People's Party was so excited to get the Week ready that we even had to negotiate so that we got some Christian health schools. I don't think there was anyone from the Labour Party in our negotiations. At least they haven't listened very well at the doors, that's for sure. The Christian People's Party is very much indignant at the moment. It's a great feeling. We're actually so anxious that we almost don't dare write into notes, because then everyone will follow where we are. The Christian People's Party has intended to be sought after, and the Christian People's Party has intended to be forward in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3524	Let me make a few comments about the debate that is going on. Here it's thrown around expressions like the county reform is made by throwing darts. Words such as ‘powers’ have been used very many times during the debate. There are representatives who have claimed that the Christian People's Party is deciding the state reform from advocacy to a freshman. I think it's a low level. The representative, Karin Andersen, I had a reply before today. She told me that since I was not elected to the Storting in the previous period, I did not have knowledge of the processes that had gone on. But I can inform the President of the Grand Council that I have met in elected bodies before. I have met in the county of Sogn and Fjordane, which have been in a rather long process, and I would like to inform the Chamber a little about how the debate in that county has been. Our deputy spokesperson held two days ago a speech to the county council, and then she had one commandment: lift your eyes and look forward! She said that now it's important that we focus on what we can create, and not what we can lose. I think it's wise words to take with me at the time and the debate we're currently having, for the debate we're now having, is not just about state reform, it's about a reversal of state reform. I hear a few of the most critical representatives say what they actually want. Wronging is human. To owe to others is politics. In Norwegian politics, we've had a culture where we make wide-ranging comparisons, especially in the issues that are difficult, and that's going to say something about wherever we want. And we've had the strength that we've been together and have been able to settle across the party boundaries. I don't see it in the bar that's in the room right now. I'm currently happy with the way we can land this. So things are going to come back later, but then we're going to do it in a way that we're going to help build something. With the words of the governor at home, Let us lift up our eyes, and look forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3537	There are some considerations about why the reform meets so much interest out there – one thing is among the population. I'll make some considerations. I think it's a little bit about trust. Outside the country's policies, it is a difficult task to deal with. What you're experiencing is that the government has done the opposite so far. It has reduced the appropriations for industrial development, it has proposed to take from counties their responsibilities in the field of higher education, in the field of dental care, in the field of public transport. In itself, it is a little special that the Council of State, Sanner, has proposed it, all the time you point out – among other things. in the Ministry of Transport — that it may be one of those areas where there can really be great regional coordination. Furthermore, framework transfers have been reduced and not followed up in terms of price and cost growth. This means that trust in the fact that there are tasks to be done is low. It's in the light that, as I said earlier here, I am delighted to discuss what tasks the majority of the population are willing to give to these new regions. There will be the actual test of whether some of the statements that come from the majority of this room right now are faithful. So I do some reflections after traveling quite a lot in this country in the last 15 years, and in particular in the last two years: the knowledge of distance is not necessarily always present. At least it is not possible to trace that all the representatives are able to get into the perceived distance out there. I come from a county where we have 880 kilometers – if we take the shortest and fastest road and we don't have to go into absolutely all the municipalities – to drive by car from north to south. And I have to assume the role of being a little further north and express my great understanding of why Finnmark's representatives and Troms' representatives express great scepticism for this reform. So we're talking about an area larger than a very large number of countries in Europe. When the state politicians up there say that one has an area to manage and not just provide services to its citizens, I think, in the light of the new Planning and Building Act, which exists here, it would be nice if the Stortinget thought about how the regionally elected level there is going to be able to make overall plans based on the new law. It's going to be demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3548	My good colleague, Tage Pettersen, gave me a little visit instead. It is true that I have put some question mark on the region of the Christian People's Party leaving behind in the East, and I have questioned whether the Christian People's Party would have had the same attitude if one had still been represented from these states. I bet you do. I would like the Christian People's Party to listen more to its trust-elects in Eastfold and Buskerud, who have pronounced strong scepticism in the construction of the Viking. It is entirely legal to be in favour of regional reform, and it is entirely legal to think about the regional level, but when the map becomes visible as the Viken region, it must be allowed to ask some questions. But that's really not what I went up for. It is a party that excels with its absence on this pulpit today. It's the third largest party in the world, a party that often sees what's moving in people, and what's moving in the depth of the people. They claim to be on the team with most people, and I think that's a good reason why they haven't been on this pulpit to a very large extent today, precisely because they don't want to be associated with this elitist reform, because you can see that the Viken region and other coercive regions won't be very functional and don't have much understanding in the depths of the people. In the beginning, Kjos, the spokeswoman of the Progress Party, actually said it outright. They don't want to fill up at all, and maybe it's okay that it becomes so non-functional that you make one county of the whole country. I guess there was something in that direction. I had a hope that the countercurrent party of the Christian People's Party would join in and pause the reform and the Viking. Now I trust that the People's Party sees the unreasonableness of this proposal. I see that the representative Bård Hoksrud has signed up. I will appeal to the Advance Party not to dig down, but actually turn in time. It will serve them very much, and I think taxpayers will also appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3557	We're far out in the debate now, and that's a little bit of anything you might want to comment on. The opposition draws an image of the unrecognizable reform. The representative Asphjell asked the council if he was concerned about the unrest in the counties. No, the state councils, there's no mass uprising against the regional reform. The representative Olsen asked: Is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party satisfied with the chaos they have created? No, it's not chaos, but we're pleased with the result we're going to adopt today, was the answer. The representative of Lauvås said: I have strong faith that the Christian People's Party will change this reform. That's not happening. The representative Lundteigen left the responsibility for the decisions to be made today in the Christian People's Party. The representative of Bransdal is absolutely right when she says that there are four parties behind the decisions to be made today. The Christian People's Party has got a lot of pepper here tonight – my opinion is the opposite. I would say that the Christian People's Party deserves praise for having followed up the decisions made in the case, which have respected the premises and the outcome of the negotiations that exist. In my opinion, there is a great deal of respect for that. So the representative said something wise. Raise your eyes and look forward, he said. That is a wise advice, and that is what this reform is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3568	I come from Westfold, so I'll be a little bit careful talking about distances. But at least we can conclude with, regardless of this regional reform, that it will no longer be from one place to another. There has been a great deal of focus on greater differences with this regional reform. That's wrong. There is clearly still a need for real-time investment. Oslo is today almost nine times bigger in the population than the smallest state. The fold is going to be less than five times the smallest region after the new map is drawn. There are significantly smaller differences between regions. Then you might think that there are very big differences in geography, but it's like the Week – when it's a reality – takes place twice inside what's today's Finnmark. So I wish that today we could rather look forward, as several of my colleagues have been about, instead of this rematch. For I hear several sayings that today we decide – today is a sad day. That's not it. This was adopted on 8 June. There are many regional and local politicians out there waiting to get started, waiting for us to finish this unnecessary rematch. My associate from the Workers' Party from Vestfold, Dag Terje Andersen, gave me and my colleagues a visit, and went against my colleague Westgaard-Halle's claim that this does not occupy the people most. He says that this takes people most, these are people most concerned about. I don't think he's right, but let's say, for the sake of the thought experiment, that most people are concerned about it. Yes, then perhaps that is the explanation that the Workers' Party went back strongly in Vestfold, and that the Right went well and got an extra representative in the county. So let's add that to the side. Regional and local politicians want to get this reform going now. They're waiting for us to finish this. I want to quote Steven Stills – in a hit with Crosby, Stills & Nash from the last time it was municipal reform, 50 years ago: “If you can’t be with the one you love, love the one you’re with.” Now we need to raise our eyes, we need to open up to develop better services, and we need to develop better regions. It's school that's important, it's culture that's important, it's culture that's important, it's culture that's important, and it's regional development that's important. We have to move on. We have to stop being concerned about the distance in meters and the number of people. It is not that I suddenly get an urgent need to go to Hol or Halden because it becomes the same region, or Siljan or Sande for that matter. Center is where we live, where we work, where we live our lives. That is what we are going to develop further, and that is what this regional reform is part of. So I want us now to put the rematch dead, that we move on and get developed the good regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3586	I would like to start with a statement from the representative, Mr Andersen, of the Workers' Party, who said that democracy has been absent in this process. No, it doesn't. But democracy in the Workers' Party has been like a poorly tuned TV antenna. It has been very difficult to interpret the signals. For in Troms, the County Council of the Workers Party is very enthusiastic. The same can be said about the role of the Workers' Party in Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, and in Buskerud the Workers' Party rapporteur has not chosen to look at Telemark and Vestfold. At least from the counties the initiatives for this breakdown come. We are not on the Stortinget that has necessarily taken the initiative to draw this map. They've been very much involved in it themselves. To the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, who seems to be getting messed up in the house, and that this is a division nobody wants, and a reform nobody wants either. Battle violence Vedum lives in Hedmark. Over the past 15 years, we have established the Inland Hospital, the Inland Police District, Theater Inland, the Trade School Inland, Innovation Norway The Inland, the Inland College and the Regional Research Fund Inland. Even business has organized itself in the Inland NHO. The representative Battle Force Vedum can say which of these divisions he himself has not been in. It sounds like this is really pretty tidy in the interior. This is where it fails a little while ago when the representative Ivar Odnes from Uppland says that the Inland is not ready for this, and that the Small Left contributes something that the Inland does not want. But Innovation Norway Inland is organized like this, the NHO Inland is organized like this, the regional research fund is organised in this way, and all these are crying for more muscles, after more instruments to develop competitiveness, development power — and also democracy — for that purpose — to ensure the income and well-being of our region. When I say that the export income from Raufoss is NOK 303,000, they are for Elverum NOK 187 000, for Thinset, NOK 61 000. Yes, we can even out some of it through this reform, but the most important thing is that the tax revenue from the exporters is evened out and distributed across the Inland. Everyone enjoys it, but we have to put on, so we ensure that continued innovation and export power is created in our region, so that we have well-being to live off in the future. That's exactly what's changed – when oil revenue goes down, we're going to live on something else. At Raufoss they sell cars to the whole world every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3598	In the Glåmdalen newspaper of October 26, 2005, we read the following: ‘It was the engagement party at Lillehammer when the county councils in Hedmark and Oppland decided to marry and become the Inland Region by 2010.’ The observers will note that this time is right after the government change in 2005 and the red-green government had joined, and then there was an enthusiastic mood in the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV for regional reform. «Regional reform is a large-scale democratic reform, nothing less», said the former Minister of State and Head of the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, Bastant. But the most exciting example still seems to me to be a reading entry in the Evening Post on 9 March 2006 entitled ‘Strengthening Regions for the Future’, and I want to read some excerpts from this article. ‘Today, the political legitimacy of many municipalities is low, while the citizens are satisfied with the tasks carried out. By coordinating more tasks at regional level, we can further develop the quality of services, contribute to better overall resource use and strengthen legitimacy.’ A little later in the same text: ‘There are many who have views on how best to design new, strong and robust regions. Our Council invites all engaged people to participate in a broad democratic debate about the main democratic reform in Norway for a long time!’ This sounds like something Jan Tore Sanner could say. He might have been a little bit more sober than this, but the text isn't written by Sanner. This is actually a common chronicle of Trygve Battle Violence Vedum and Dag Terje Andersen. Therefore, it was quite exciting to hear a rather stated post from the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, instead. ‘Reform no batches will have’, he repeated. Similarly indignant was the representative Dag Terje Andersen, who had posts after the Battle of Vedum. It's said that you're getting smarter with the years, but I think I liked the 2006 edition of Battle Violence Vedum and Andersen a little better than today's. In fact, there was a time when the representative Slagsvold Vedum was not just enthusiastic about regional reform. He was even a pioneer for the word 'robust', which was gradually dispelled. So we all know the story. The red-green regional reform stranded. Therefore, it must be extra gratifying that today we can make sure that the engagement party from Lillehammer in 2005 finally results in a marriage. Twelve years of engagement must be long enough, and the representative Vedum can finally get his wish for robust regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3622	This must be the day's all, the very best posts. This debate has been, in many ways, just an echo from the debate which was in June, so Kristian Toning Riise is to have the honour of giving him new information on the matter. I really must say that there are not many others who have managed to do throughout the debate we have had here tonight. It is suggested that reversals be made without any new elements in the debate, but it was unbelievably liberating to listen to Kristian Toning Riise with that storytelling. The opposition has spent the whole day cultivating its defeat without telling us that they have been for this in the way they have been before, and it is strange that they can have such an approach in the debate today. Then I'm actually very surprised when I hear the representative Frida Melvær tell me how it has been in Sogn in Fjordne, but when I hear Kristian Tonning Riise's posts, I'm not surprised. When large-scale representatives from the Workers' Party and the Centre go forward in this way to prevent the multiplicity of the will of the inhabitants and politicians of Sogn and Fjordane, I'm actually quite frightened. There is no doubt that there is a panic in both the Centre Party and the Labour Party that the government should have a plurality of its policy – in which they are, in fact, some. That's what Kristian Toning Riise tells us here. I think this is a strange debate. I really should have wanted us to have had several of the sorcerers we have in Sogn and Fjordane, from the Center Party. Imagine, President, if we had had representatives on the Central Party Stortinget with such integrity as the Governor of Sogn and Fjordane have had! So Norway had looked different.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3631	The Progress Party does not have to have so many representatives up here to tell much of what we said in June – and to the representative Myhrvold I would say that there is so little need for it – but I am going to be a little disobedient today and have taken the floor now. I was actually going to be in the county of Telemark today, because I am also in the county and have decided to merge the counties Vestfold and Telemark into one region. The funny thing about it is that the Workers' Party, which is very opposed here on the Stortinget, really locally – and so far also large-scale representatives from the Workers' Party – would like to get together if only Buskerud joined in. The argument of the Workers' Party has been that we do not want to merge Westfold and Telemark, because it is a coercion. But if you get along with Buskerud, it's okay. If you're just coercing with another state, it's all right with the regional reform. I think that's a strange approach to this debate. And I had hoped that it was a little bit more forward-looking, a little bit more positivity. I was at the County Meeting of Vestfold and Telemark – November 23, I believe it was – where there was an agreement that the county rapporteurs now had to sit together, because there are two unanimous assemblies. If not, they had to close themselves in the room until they were able to agree on what to do, what the name should be, and how to get this in a good way. And yes, at least it is now agreed that the regional headquarters should be located in Telemark, the county office should be located in Westfold, and if you had done what the Workers' Party wanted – to have one state to – it might be that it would be smaller in one of the two counties that now actually get more. I also think it is a perspective that should be taken into account when discussing this. There is no doubt that the Progress Party would rather not have any regional level, that is our starting point. But I actually think that once you've come to where you've come, you should look at what you're doing locally. It would have been tragic for the telemark county, which a few hours ago unanimously agreed to join forces, that today the opposition would have a majority to say no to allow them to take the decision they made a few hours ago. Because that would be the consequence if the opposition here in this room had got through to their proposal today – quite stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3642	The representative Tveiten Benestad from the Right says there is no uprising in the population. I wonder if there are many in this room who have been on a tour in Troms and Finnmark in the last year. You can reflect on why the Right so far came in with representation from Finnmark on the Stortinget, and maybe you're very happy that you have a system that today arranges a balancing mandate. You can reflect on why Right lost one of two representatives in Troms. It could be worth reflecting on. Today's government, with the supporting parties the Christian People's Party and the Left, obviously believes that the answer to everything in society is centralization and coercion. Through one reform after another, while claiming to change for the better, the reality is centralisation, bureaucracy and coercion — reforms often without real content other than centralisation. Today’s government has committed linguistic abuse of the concept of reform, and step by step they give further impetus to the centralisation of Norway. The resources and values you find in the whole country you want, but for the government it's a problem that there are people living here. Because there is no doubt that regional reform is going to go beyond the provision of services to people. I'm from Troms, which is now adopted combined with Finnmark, and I don't know if everyone here is aware of how big Troms and Finnmark will be – from Vadsø in Finnmark to Kväfjord in Troms it is 1,075 km. It's 16 hours to drive a car. Then it was not taken with waiting time for ferries. It's one hour shorter to drive through Finland, but I guess we can just relax, because we can take flights. After all, it takes only five to six hours to fly. The distances in the north are already large enough. Merging Troms and Finnmark does not become a state; it becomes a continent, a continent bordering on three other nations. Finally, I wish the state politicians in Troms and Finnmark, yes, the entire population of Troms and Finnmark, were told why Council Sanner would not meet them at the joint county council he has imposed, at a price of over a million kroner. But the Council of State has said we're going to be rusty. Then I think that the government council has gone back and will cover the costs of over a million kroner it will be to carry out the county councils in Troms and Finnmark four times a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3657	It is rare that I am involved in debates that are as full of bluffs as this debate. We're invited to look forward. Yes, what do we see in the future? Well, we see two government parties that want to put down the county council, and that have actively proposed to remove tasks from the county councils today. In the spring we agreed to fight so that the dental service, which is a well-functioning service in the county municipalities, would not be split up in all the municipalities. Even public transport – which could perhaps be an argument that we need larger counties, perhaps also Oslo and Akershus together – would have large municipalities. The NHO came to the committee, scratched their hair and wondered what in the world this was: should they now sit with even more bids than they are now, with all that efficiency loss and the mess that it would lead to? That's what it is. The Left and Christian People's Party has now played Kirsten poison knife for a forced reform where we can expect that there will be no new tasks. I've heard representatives stay up here and talk about the Ringeriksbanen, about intercity, about the North Region bet. All these things work today. The government is free to assign tasks to the county councils, but they don't, they want to take the tasks away from them. That's what we've been suggested for here in Stortinget until now. I have been in favour of a regional reform – I can tell that I have been since the 1990s, when I was on the county council, when we had tasks, and when we believed that the Stortinget would actually give the county councils more tasks. Then we could create large regions that could have had a meaning, but with the tasks that this government seems to have to have, it's a shame to report a meaningless reform. I don't think anyone is sitting there waiting to do this locally, at least no one I know. They're sitting around worrying, because it's costing a lot of money, it's going to cost a lot of money, and they have less money to deal with now than they had before. All the money they were supposed to be able to run regional development, high school and public transport is less now than they were before. So this is a rather sad day, and it is sad that local politicians have to waste time, forces and money on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3668	It's about people, it's about people's lives, it's about services they're entitled to, and everyday life they live in. First — a little overall — some concrete examples of closeness across the country being good Norwegian values: Norwegian value creation largely related to the exploitation of natural resources in the form of fish, minerals, wood and other raw materials, scattered throughout the country Nordics connected with each other through our places, homes with dialects, football courses, costumes, family stories, holiday resorts proximity to decision-makers and knowledge of each other, building trust scattered settlement as good preparedness and as our strongest defense The size has set the goal of maintaining our self-sufficiency of food, also because it makes us safer. But then people have to live where the food is to be produced. In the future, we need to get more out of the public sector because oil revenues are falling and care needs are increasing. When we think about new things, we also have opportunities to think spread. What is the Central Party's alternative to this reform? Yes, it is a reform of trust. The centre party will propose a plan for a much larger relocation of state jobs as part of a rethinking of directorates and management. Migration should be based on clear criteria that host municipalities have sufficient long-term capacity to ensure good transitions for employees. Confidence reform in the public sector must ensure both better performance and lower management costs. We must dare to move more decisions to the first line and increase participation for school, health and care staff – the opposite of today's conditions with a government with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party. So to today's debate: The representative, Kjeseth, obediently frames up organizations where we have a united Inland. I am pleased that we can gather services in the interior, but the Left must not confuse cooperation with political organisation. For me, the value of government and local assessments for the administrative body, to which we, as aliens, have to deal daily, is confusing with other bodies in Uppland and Hedmark. It is not the same, nor should it be assessed in the same way. There must be sound professional judgements that defend a merger between Uppland and Hedmark. I'm glad to see that. Norway is the world's best country to live in, and I hope it will continue to be. Decentization is a value. Trust and preparedness are important values.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3696	I took the floor first to comment on Mr. Kjeseth's claim that this was a reform that had grown from below. The truth is that there was a message to the county councils that they had to talk to the neighbouring counties if it could be relevant to a coup d'état. Some of them started before that -- the drones did it, completely voluntary. For our part in Vestfold, we have said that Vestfold, Telemark and Buskerud can be an alternative if we have to merge, and some other states have talked about other solutions. But everyone has said that we should first discuss tasks. That's what I said in my first post. It is quite right as Kristian Toning Riise said, he quoted an article, and it was glittering and well formulated, whether to say it myself. Of course, I am too modest to quote my own posts from earlier times, but it was about content, and that was the process. Yes, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and I traveled around the country and gave talks together, together with people from SV, and gathered our parties to discuss whether we could manage to get a real democratic reform that gave local democracy power and authority. We couldn't do that, I admit it. Now I guess this is going to be in the big report, but I mentioned the message we made, as the message with no progress, because it was so hard to get tasks out of the regional level. That's why I first said in my post instead that this is not a regional reform. This is a merger of the counties, and a coercion of the counties that have not asked to be joined together. We in Vestfold are upset, and I can tell my colleague on the bench, Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, that I am listening very much to the Right rapporteur in Sandefjord, Bjørn Ole Gleditsch, or former Countess in Vestfold, the well-known Right-Man Erling Lae, who has said clearly that this reform cannot be explained to anyone, because it has no content. That's why we've said, no, we're not forcing those states to merge. That is why document 8 is here. And then we'll be on a process that discusses what democratic tasks we can give to regional levels of government, and then find natural structures based on it. As I said, despite the fact that I was clean about mentioning it, I think more people should read the article that Kristian Toning Riise has read. And to the extent that you're going to drive democracy reform, maybe use it as a recipe, just to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3709	I assume that everyone in this assembly has a democratic mindset, and we also realize that it is the power that is at stake. But I'm connected so that when I see where it's carrying, I start, after all, to be a little constructive and think, what's this about possibilities? But it was until the staging president came in personally. Stortingspresident Olemic Thommessen shared his thoughts about new, merged county municipalities in the newspaper Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen on 5 November. His installation makes me even more concerned about whether the government parties really have any willingness to give the regional level greater responsibilities and more tasks. ‘With our right eyes, we think it is more important to strengthen municipalities with tasks than to add them to the county municipality.’ This is less than half-hearted about the future tasks of county councils. I do not know what power and influence the prime minister has on the political activities of the government parties, but when these are the primary municipalities he now promises in the coercion of several gigantic county municipalities, in view of new tasks, I am, for good reason, very concerned. At least I'd say it was very bad timing. For once again, a new division of states alone is no reform. Rather, as many have said, it can be the beginning of this level of government. New units need to be reinvigorated, increased responsibilities and space of action, and the economy is ensured to stimulate value creation and to provide well-functioning services at regional level. The state politicians who now say yes, as Hoksrud describes, expect to get important new tasks – while knowing the government party's blue lamp, the blue one. I hope the Council of State – which may be in the Chamber – or some of the government parties, or the Left, who are at the head of the whole thing, can clarify what the Right really wants in this matter. They may know more about it than some of us do – it was, President, to Kjenseth personally. This has really raised doubts about President Thommes, as I see it. In any case, his opinion does not increase enthusiasm for the coercive merger project at state level. I expect someone to take responsibility for clarifying this, because I think it is more than I think it could be a good idea to get a hint of what we are waiting for – perhaps not waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3727	At first a visit to Bård Hoksrud, who thought that if we had managed, the county councils would not have been allowed to decide that they wanted to join forces. Where does he take it from? The trombone layer groups have merged. It was a decision for it both in the Nord-Trøndelag and in the South-Trøndelag. The representative, Mr Greni, even voted for a coup d'état. It was a voluntary decision, and of course the whole of the Centerparti Group voted in favour of a voluntary coup d'état. Here we are talking about coercion decisions and those who do not want to implement by coercion. This debate is basically an echo from 8 June, and it can be summed up in the same way: the Right Party and the Advance Party are happy that they are halfway around to wind up the county, which they consider to be an unnecessary level. They have proposed removing responsibilities for dental, public and secondary health. They've halved regional development funds. That's what they've done to the county in this period. The Left and Christian People's Party still believe that they have saved the state level, that there is no threat in any way, and they still believe that new tasks will come. Strong in faith, at least they are. The common feature of these four is that they have voted against all the 14 proposals proposed by the Central Party on new tasks. What's as shocking as the last is the way these parties talk about today's county councils, and this also refers to all the competent state politicians from all political parties. Bransdal said so that the regional level is about to rot. But Johnsen called it a dying horse, which is certain and needs replanting – just that exercise was not a subject when I went to the agronomist, so it gets a little demanding. I find it disrespectful to elected and disrespectful to employees of the county to speak of them in this way. It's a review the Center Party doesn't support. It is in stark contrast to what Mr. Erling Lae said earlier, that the county council is well-functioning and solving the problems in a very fine way, and it is in stark contrast to what the people are saying, which is very pleased with the services. When Tonning Riise hassles with Battle Violence Vedum's play, he is one of the few who has come to realize that the Center Party is in favour of a regional reform. But this is not a regional reform. This is a structural reform. We want a regional reform with content, and unfortunately the Right has also voted against all the 14 proposals we have on new tasks for the regions. We have not heard about new tasks here today. All we know is what they don't want – what they have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3740	It's a little bit of a shame that the representative Greni doesn't take up what's the whole and full truth from the treatment we had in ours, June 8. Because there are a number of tasks that lie there, which are now actually coming back to Stortinget through the expert committee. I must also be allowed to say that I am responding to something I have heard a lot of in the debate today: that there is so much doubt about the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party stands for its agreements. That should not be the slightest doubt. The Christian People's Party has stood for this agreement around the regions, and stood upright. I think they deserve credit for that. I think it's hollow to attack the Christian People's Party in the way it's done now. The Christian People's Party has been clear from the moment we decided to have the second level, until we now actually confirm the decision we made on June 8th – and fortunately, the rematched comrades do not get their will. Direct errors are also the indications of secondary school from the representative of Greni and others. Secondary school is exactly the same as during the eight years the representative's party had government responsibility along with the other red-green -- that's exactly the same thing. So I don't get it. Then she must be dissatisfied with it one did in the eight years one sat in government, for it was like today. And when it comes to this area concept, I notice that everyone is aware that there's going to be an expert selection. Everyone was aware of this when we adopted this on 8 June. Then comes the adjustment, if necessary. We were clear that we were not going to break up the counties, in that decision. Neither have we. But we were also clear about the tasks that we decided to do, which are far more than the 14 that the representative Mr. Greni now pointed out in his post – much more, and also some that the Central Party did not vote for either. I'm also a little surprised when one of the Senterpart representatives is excited to say that they want to move power out, in the form of state jobs. Yes, but then you have to do something so that it actually becomes a real balance, by creating a counter-power – which I, when I went into this hall today, thought the centre party was actually occupied with. But there I have obviously been wrong, and I fully agree with the representative of Tonning Riise that what was true for the Center Party eight years ago does not apply now. We also saw that when we debated the sugar charge just a few days ago. One changes, and one turns the jacket after the wind at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3760	It's interesting to say that many representatives from the special Right think that people don't care about this. Then you can ask yourself why we are still here and debate this matter. Why are there so many posts from the Workers' Party, from the Center Party, from SV – which are parties that together make up many members and many voters? It's, one might not say nonsense, but it's so far from the truth to think that people don't care about this. In the election campaign in Telemark, reference has been made to previous investigations as to whether people thought it was a good idea to coerce Telemark and Vestfold. Seven out of ten didn't think so. Right might have a slightly different view of what is a lot of people and not, but the resistance of the two states is significant. Some reason why I took the floor was that it was said by the spokesperson of Bård Hoksrud, who was also in Telemark County, that the county council in Telemark was actually for a coercion strike with Telemark, Buskerud and Vestfold. If Bård Hoksrud had followed a little more with the times he might have participated in Telemark County, the representative would know that it was not true. Telemark county has pointed to Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold, but there is no room for a desire to do so by coercion. It's a pretty substantial part of this debate. The Labour Party, and it has been said many times from this pulpit, is not against a regional reform, but as Dag Terje Andersen did so well, this is not really a regional reform. This is the coercion of some county municipalities. It's such a bad construction that it impresses me that it can go through Norway's National Assembly. But finally, I did not think that the Christian People's Party's big-time representative in Telemark Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has been in vain in this matter. I have been in many debates, at least some, and the representative from Telemark has always said that he is in favour of this regional reform. That his colleagues in the Christian People's Party in Telemark are not, is possible, and that we others who disagree with him, had hoped that it could affect, move or change the outcome of today's decision, must be legitimate. It must be allowed to hope that today we could have a decision on the refusal to impose sanctions on Westfold and Telemark. But I'm going to admit that I haven't walked around and believed today that Geir Jørgen Bekkewold from the Christian People's Party in Telemark would save that cause. But you others have the opportunity tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3775	It is a good move for the Left to take the Christian People's Party in strong defence. I am still very, very disappointed that the Christian People's Party did not seize the opportunity they had to make the changes that had been reasonable. Left in this case I had so far no hopes for, it is as it is. The left was allowed to draw the map as a thank you for supporting the government in the income system and getting it changed. This regional reform is actually the result of a solid horse trade between the Right and the Progress Party and the Left, mixed into an income system. That's what's the truth behind this. In the course of the debate, I have not been able to understand why they have chosen to listen, for example. Rogaland and say yes, it is important that they have listened to Rogaland. They said no, they wouldn't have any aggregation. Buskerud said no; Eastfold said no; Akershus said no; several other states said no. They have not been listened to. Is it possible to ask the Council of State for an explanation of why you listen to Rogaland, but not to anyone else? It would have been nice to get a clear explanation of why this is so – whether it has anything to do with the fact that there were Right-wing representatives in Rogaland who started to move, so you didn't dare. What do I know, it gets the Council of State to answer. I also hear that you argue that now the states have begun to adopt this, so now it would be bad if the Storting changed it. It is clear that the counties have begun to adopt this – under coercion. Under compulsion, the states have begun to adopt this, for the alternative has been made clear by the Council of State: if they don't start to do so now, the Council of State will come and do it for them. There is nothing but coercion, therefore these decisions are now being taken. Our regional politicians don't sleep in the hour, they look great at the majority of the population and where this is carried. It goes towards the end of the debate, and I am only told that the parties of government, the Left and the Christian People's Party believe that this coup d'état is the best they can do. There is not much to boast about — on the contrary, this regional reform appears to be a masquerade. It's a piece of cake. What's bad is that this batch is now finally adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3791	The President has some doubts as to whether ‘power stations’ are a parliamentary expression – we let it hang in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3796	Communication is a difficult thing, especially when you say two completely different things at the same time. I feel that the partners of the Christian People's Party and the Right are doing that today. The council has repeatedly said today that the time of the rematch is over. At the same time, the Christian People's Party spokesman says that if this turns out to be wrong, we'll have to look at it again. Then I get a little in doubt: Is the door closed? Is the door open? It would have been very nice to clarify this before this matter is finished today. If the Christian People's Party is in doubt or is directly in disagreement with what is being done now – it was actually said that the Christian People's Party believes that the Week is too big – it is strange that you go into this with completely open eyes and contribute to voting for something that is really against you. Why not buy yourself a little better time? Why not get an assessment of whether it is wise to organise the states around Oslo in the same way that Nav has done, or as East police districts have done? The counties, as they are organized today, are old – I don't know if they are 160, 200 or 260 years old. Why not spend half a year or a year to see if it is possible to better organize the counties around Oslo? And so we had a vision and a slogan for merging that went something like this: let's merge what belongs together. The slogan for the Week should be in comparison: let's not establish anything that doesn't go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3807	First of all, I do not think I said that the Workers' Party party was going to coerce Buskerud. The whole district of Telemark has said that one would like to join together Westfold, Telemark and Buskerud, but Buskerud did not want to. It was when I said that when the Workers' Party was about to merge the three, it would mean that if you didn't join Westfold, it was because it was coerced, but if you joined Buskerud, it was suddenly not coerced. But Busherud won't. I think they would perceive it as coercion. But to the representative, Karin Andersen, who says that no one she knows is happy, everyone is sitting and grinning – as regional and state politicians: I am, of course, too, and I think it's okay to be a little preconceived. I'm not afraid, because I think you should take challenges and be forward-looking. I also feel that several of the county representatives in my county, Telemark, are. They actually see that it can be good. Although Vestfold and Telemark may not always agree, I think you might have some differences that might be good for both states. It's not like you're bringing together counties, you're bringing together county administrations and the elected regional level. I think this should be able to go very well. Then there was a representative who was up and talking about that we were lucky. I agree, because we live in the best country in the world. Then it's okay to remind the Storting that it was after the Right Party and the Advance Party came into government, that we went from being very high up to actually becoming the world's best country to live in. That is good, and it shows that with the Right Party and the Advance Party in government, it is doing well for the country. We're going up on statistics and now we're the world's best country to live in. But I think it's important to have that there's now a lot of people who see the possibilities out there. Yes, there has been disagreement, there have been discussions, and there has been a lot back and forth. The telemark county has been turned around several times, but now at least you agree. As I said, it was a very good meeting on November 23. As far as I am aware, it was a unanimous assembly in Telemark today that said that we are in favour of this. I feel that ordinary people are not so very concerned about the county, but they are busy with the tasks to be solved. The whole point is that you're going to spend more money on solving these problems and providing the people with good services, not on administration. That's part of what's at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3818	I've been the county rapporteur in a state that's been looking for partners on both sides. We haven't searched east, but at least we've searched both north and south to find partners, and now we've luckily got a merger with Sogn and Fjordane. I'm glad, because I'm glad it gets a little heavier there west. It's something of size also in itself. Today, we have been reminded of the experience of the last regional reform. We saw that those who were then in government, among others. The working party, strictly speaking, was opposed to doing something with the problems before they had done anything with the shape, and today we are shown that they are also opposed to doing something with the shape. It is true that in this debate – I have been a state politician for almost 20 years and have seen it – every time it has come to an end, you have been against what was the order at that time. So is today. If we're going to get stronger regions that have a stronger voice in this room, for example, and towards the central areas of the country and in the central areas of the country, we have to choose to bite the sour apple and actually do something. It is not possible to sit in this room anymore and wait and say that no, now we should do something with the problems first, now we should do something with the shape first. Well, now we get the jam doing something, and that's why I don't like this rematch we have here today. We have heard words that are gigantic – it is a meaningless word about the county municipalities that are going to be in the future in Norway. We've heard words like chaos – then at least this is some of the most proper chaos I've ever seen. There is no more chaos in this process than a regular rush time in Oslo or in Bergen. This is not chaos, this is actually quite proper, and the only unrest is in the political class that is either tired of the county and their taburets disappearing, or because they have a certain nostalgia in this. It seems that this occurred in some form of long-term public investigation, well-considered aggregation and careful assessment of which sites belonged. Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland were created because one who was not a countyman in Bergen sent letters to the king in Denmark, in Copenhagen, to ask for a county of his own. He got it, and it was Sogn and Fjordane. That's what we celebrated a few years ago. There are such stories that lie behind this original structure, and there have actually happened things in 160 years. A little comfort to my colleagues from the East who feel hurt and difficult that it will be far from Hallingskarvet to Ashim: It is far from Hardangerjøkulen to Eyegarden too, but we have lived with it. That there's a fjord in the middle – well, in Hordaland there's a fjord that's five miles longer than the Oslo Earth, and it's going fine. In Sogn and Fjordane there is a fjord that is even longer, and it is going perfectly well. That's how I can keep going up the entire West Coast. This is going perfectly well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3831	The review tone of the opposition in this debate is that we are in favour of regional reform, just not this regional reform. One by one they come up to the pulpit and say that had only this or this been here, we could have been in favour of a regional reform. It is not that the division of tasks currently in the reform is written in stone for all future. With such an approach, there had never been a reform. The representative Heidi Greni was up here and said that the centre party is really for a regional reform – it had to look a little different – while the representative Sandra Borch was concerned that the regional reform did not take place because the distance from Harstad to Kirkenes was so great. This is a criticism that does not go into effect at once. No matter what kind of task that had been in the reform of the region, the distance from Harstad to the Church had not diminished. So it's not just a problem here that the opposition can't agree with themselves on what they're against, but even the Central Party doesn't agree on what they're really against the regional reform, whether they find arguments for being against regional reform anyway, or whether they could be for some kind of reform. We can then suspect that it is not really regional reform that we are opposed to, but that it is now a civil government that implements a reform that one failed with many years ago. In that case, I think that is an irresponsible approach from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3838	I think I will start by noting that I am in favour of regional reform and municipal reform and have participated in an exciting work to join Oppegård and Ski municipalities until I was elected to Stortinget this autumn. I want to pick up some of the representatives Westgaard-Halle talked about instead, that people don't care about the regions. Then I want to tell you about a little exercise I did on Facebook a few days ago. I specifically asked those who are not political, if they could say what they think about the regional reform. I was excited if I was going to get some answers, because I thought, is it just the politicians who are concerned about the regions, or are people also that? I was really quite surprised that I received 76 comments on a very common Facebook post. There were a few who said that no, they were not concerned with the regions, but the vast majority were concerned with the regional level, and many thought that there was a need for regional reform. But there was something quite striking in these comments – and I live in Akershus, and many of my friends come from the same region as me: The fold is a meaningless construction, it was quite obvious. It's Oslo and Akershus who have the most common challenges, especially traffic. The representative Pettersen from Østfold said that it would be an advantage in the Viken region to now be able to go to secondary schools across the new region. But I don't think it's so interesting for someone who lives in Halden, to go to high school in Hallingdal as it is for those who live on the Oslo border, to go to a high school in Oslo. I think that's where the problem is greatest. We say that we have a common housing and labour market region, but that does not apply to those who are 16-19 years old. That is why I believe that the biggest problem with Viken is that Oslo is not in it. Oslo is actually a dense place that extends all the way to where I live, at Langhus. We're not going to be in the same municipality, I'm going to be part of Nordre Follo. But we're not going to be part of the same state or the same region, and I think that's a pity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3847	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3852	The representative Hue Riise obviously has difficulty understanding that the Right Party and the Center Party have different definitions of reform. When we want to reform an area, it is to either provide better services or provide services more efficiently. When the Right comes up with a new reform, it's either to make something big, bigger or bigger, or to centralize something as much as possible. There's two different angles of incidence. The reform of the centre party, with new tasks for the county councils, does not depend on aggregation, it does not depend on an inconsequentially large structure covering a quarter of the country's area. The tasks we have proposed can be carried out finely without any groupings. It is the state politicians who have to find out if it is rational to merge two states. If the state politicians locally say that here it makes sense to merge, we will get better services and more rational operation by merging – yes, the Center Party is for it. Now we've put together the trophies. Unfortunately, we haven't seen a single new problem, and we're very disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3859	Today's county councils rot on the roots, it is said in this debate. For me, it's a rather resigned approach to good work done within both continuing training and the cultural status of the county councils, where many elected representatives do a good job, and where thousands of added workers do the same. But then there are some county municipalities that don't rot on the roots. It's for Rogaland, it's for More and Romesdal, and it's for Northernland. Then it might be interesting to know from this pulpit what distinguishes these three counties from those who are going to coerce. Do these very unique qualities that no one else has, and that make them more life-created than county municipalities such as Akershus, Buskerud, Troms and Sogn and Fjordane? Then it's called from the pulpit real-time competence. I can admit that I have a degree in both mathematics and statistics, which would make admission to the teacher's study possible. I was in what has been said, that we get more monotonous regions with the new system. I've calculated it. The population today varies from 75 000 in Finland to 670,000 in Oslo. There's a difference of 600,000 people. In the new regional map, the population will vary from 243 000 to 1 148 000 inhabitants. There are over 900,000 inhabitants. In my education, I learned that 900,000 was significantly more than 600,000. So, of course, it's possible to create tables, statistics and presentations as a percentage, which again don't show the actual image, but I think the new regions become less uniform than the new counties. I would like to pay tribute to the representative of Eskeland, from Right, who said very clearly what has happened in the county municipalities. She said: The county councils have done the job that Stortinget has ordered them to do. It is difficult to say afterwards that the county councils have taken the lead in these processes, when they have not taken the initiative itself, but have done so on behalf of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3871	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3876	It is possible that the representatives are very involved in the debate, but I think I have only had one three-minute post. I'm going to be very careful to say that the regional reform as it emerges is further proof – based on this debate, which we've had throughout a whole day – that Norway is not the democratic lighthouse that we like to believe we are. Here, the urgent element is particularly prominent. It is conducted without proper investigation and customary consultation rounds. So, with record enthusiasm and without credible justification – which several of the representatives have called for in this debate – it is continuing. There will be geographical miscarriages that no one really wants – when we look at it from the debate that has taken place here today. And it's interesting to note that the debate has been going on for a lot of hours -- it's in stark contrast to what has been said, that this case does not engage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3885	A very brief comment to the representative Greni's last post, where she tried to define what the Right adds in the word «reform»: I don't think so bad about my honourable competitors. I believe that both the Central Party and we have the same definition of the word'reform': to change for the better. It is not about combating democracy or other terms. What I think, on the other hand, we have a different definition of, is the word 'better'. We want a reform because the outside world has changed, so we want to change for the better, while I think "better" in the centre party's ears is to keep everything as it is, and if you don't, you have to reverse it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3892	I have drawn up a little bit, hoping that I could conclude the debate as rapporteur, and I believe that we are now about to land this debate. It has been a long day, with ten hours of debate about the division of the municipal level in Norway. I just have to get the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand a little visit, as she gave me some comments relating to the interior, and that we should not confuse cooperation, management and politics. That's why the Center Party will lay down the hospitals in Oppland, keep the county, but build a new hospital in Hedmark. I'm not going to make it quite clear that this is how the policy is going to be run. So the representative Karin Andersen said we're invited to look forward here today, but no, we're invited by 29 representatives from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party to look back. If we look forward to it, it's about structure. We've decided twice this year that from 2020 there will be a new structure. This is about task reform, which we are now trying for the second time over a decade, and we are on the way to adopting new tasks, allocating public tasks better across the country. And so – which we haven't talked much about – it's about a funding reform for both the municipalities and the counties. A new income system for the counties will be more debated and new decisions will also be taken for the coming years. This is a reform that extends over time, and it will have to. Then I'm happy to represent a party that has a continuity and that has set up the antenna here. In the Bondevik II government, Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Sponheim was responsible for pointing out the inland road ahead, and the project Inland 2010 was established. That's probably why Karin Andersen and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum wrote beautiful words about the future to the interior. In any case, the project Inland will now be correct in 2020, but we are taking a tough course.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3903	It was the representative Nordlund who made me take the floor, after the claim that Norway would no longer be a democratic lighthouse because the Stortinget today makes the decisions that the Stortinget has the right to take, and further characterises the regional reform as a masquerade. I just want to say that it is up to the Storting, as the country's top democratically elected body, to make these kind of decisions. At least you can't claim that the Storting has taken a light look at that problem. We spent many, many hours here, when the reform was adopted, and now we've spent nine hours discussing whether to cancel the reform. So all credit to the Storting to at least take his task seriously. I also want to convey to Stortinget that a few weeks ago, the department assembled all the counties that are now building new counties. I was turned off by the enthusiasm of that meeting. It was a group of state politicians, trust-elected, chief defence officer and employees from all the states that are now joining forces. There was no insurrection there. On the contrary, it was an enthusiasm and a joy to build something new – and that is what we have now heard from several representatives from the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, who experience the same thing out there. When the time of the fights is over, and we're going to look forward to it, I'm going to invite the whole Stortinget to participate in the further work, because the further work is about the many state politicians and employees who are now going to do an important job. Let's together give them support in the important job they're going to do, because they're doing that job for their voters, for residents and businesses in their counties. We have now discussed both the inception of reform and the abolition of reform. Now I hope that the Storting will also contribute to creating reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3912	You can probably be stated or think that nine hours of discussion of such a case is unnecessary, but so there does not seem to be a lot of people in this room, and to claim that this is not interesting for other people out there, is wrong, all of us know that the representatives who have been fighting against these matters have been forced to do so. Yes, Councillor Sanner, it's clear that the Storting should be there looking forward. We have to try to do the same thing as some county politicians are forced to do now by day. The representative, Mr Hoksrud, claimed from this House today that it was unanimously agreed that we should merge. That's not what you did in Telemark County today. The processes that exist have been dealt with, and decisions have been made on how to deal with the merger process. They know what was presented to them by the Committee as regards the result of the vote in this Chamber. But had, against assumption, hoped for a different vote result to a majority in the county both in Westfold, in Telemark and in very many other county councils that we have talked about, today had been fulfilled, they had immediately of course stopped these processes. Many have pointed out that it is a sad day, a sad day for Norway and a sad day for the regionally elected level. Some think they've saved it, but probably now it's going to rot, unfortunately. We have to try to make the best of it, but I would so sincerely wish that people could do something as popular as to take the sense of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3921	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3926	If we were to look forward, it would be interesting if there had been any problems on the table that the county councils would solve. We haven't seen that. On the contrary, the government has proposed to remove tasks. Unfortunately, the size becomes a problem because there are no new tasks, and because there is something big that no one has any connection to – and then they have to have something important to do with so that people can at least realize that something important is happening there. I have had very good contact with many who have worked with this reform locally – and yes, they do, because they know that they are being forced. It is now a great responsibility of the majority who adopts this state reform, to put both tasks and money on the table so that the prediction that I have, namely that it is a desire of the government to bring down the whole regional level, is made to shame. Then I'll praise the government, if it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3933	We can't give in to this debate, and I'm getting engaged. It's about reality, and what's referred to from this pulpit, and what's referred to in retrospect, is representative of the people we sit here on behalf of. Then I just have to take the floor to ease what I have on my heart and reflect on what I have experienced, both as a local populace, and as part of this reform in recent years. State councils say this has been driven by forward-looking local elected politicians. After being among those who have been involved in driving forward and working on the reform process, I can say that we didn't feel like we had any choice. We didn't feel like there was any alternative but to do as the Council of State said. Because when you sit as a local populace, you have enormous respect for those who are elected to the Grand Council, and those who sit in government. But it's good to sit here today and know that it's about what perspectives you have, what knowledge you have, and what decisions you make when you sit here. I just want to say on behalf of the local elected representatives that this has not necessarily been driven as voluntarily and as well as the government council will have it. The representative Kjeseth compares the Hospital of the Inland and the regional reform. He indicates that the Center Party is for a merger of hospitals, but not counties, where the Left is for the merger of counties, but not hospitals. Let me just point out that the process of merging these hospitals has been going on since 2002, if I am not completely wrong. It goes without saying that after 15 years we are starting to get a good knowledge base, and it is quite clear what tasks will be assigned to the new hospital, and who will remain at local health institutions. What is not as clear is what tasks should be assigned to a new large group of merged Uppland and Hedmark. The regional reform has been in place since 2005. We don't have a good enough foundation here today, I mean, the Center Party, to go in for this. Proximity and popular government are a value.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3942	I think we would have a better starting point if the government parties and their cooperation parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, had at least admitted that there are still major challenges to this reform. One of the challenges is, of course, what's going on in size, which many people have been dealing with. Sanner talks about enthusiasm and joy to build something new, with state politicians. State politicians at least have no pleasure in sabotaging, you are constructive when you see that there are few other alternatives based on how the majority of people in this room are going to act. But the challenge of having enthusiasm must equally go back to Sanner. Because with more enthusiasm for Sanner and those who are now going to adopt this reform, it is also expected that real tasks will actually come. And if you get the real problems, it'll also be easier to build a regional level in the future. But so far, there is the question of which tasks should not fall or lie within the county municipalities, which have dominated, and continue to do so. Are high schools in play, are public traffic in play, are dental health still in play? It creates uncertainty, and it also creates challenges to bring together enthusiasm around government, the Christian People's Party and the Left's reform. So it's still pretty unclear to me what you want now to use the states for in the future. The fold, with 1.2 million inhabitants, is perfect for the four games. But there's also Agder, which I come from, with 300,000 inhabitants. It is not difficult to imagine here that there will be some challenges in terms of what tasks will suit the regional level, and not least in terms of balancing. If Oslo and Viken agree, there's a lot of meat weight, which is hard for Agder or More and Romesdal to smooth out. Being honest with the fact that there are some challenges to centralisation in this reform, I think at least would be an important signal. To be honest with the fact that the tools at the regional level need to be strengthened, for example: in the case of regional development funds, it should be clear. Looking at the draft government budget, there are less tools for regional levels when looking at regional development funds. It's unfortunate. Then I realize that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not going to be the most intense drivers of this reform. But when the Christian People's Party is involved here, I have to say that my experience with state politicians from the Christian People's Party is that they sincerely want a proper regional level that has opportunities to build both municipalities and the country further. And in that context, there is a great responsibility, perhaps especially for the Christian People's Party, and so far the Left, to fill the regional reform with content. That's not what we've been able to achieve at this point. The job starts, and the challenge lies in particular with those who have been involved in this comparison with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3953	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3969	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3985	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e3992	Thank you to the Health and Care Committee for a constructive dialogue on Prop. 150 on the Health Supervision Act. The proposition is a follow-up to part of the proposals of the Arianson Committee in NOU 2015:11 With open cards. The proposal contains the following proposals requiring legislative amendment: A new Health Supervision Act is proposed. The proposal for a new law is essentially a continuation of the existing law, but the provisions on supervisory authorities are rejected in a single act. It is proposed to extend the obligation to notify serious incidents to the State Health Authority to cover all healthcare services. Today, the obligation to notify applies only to the specialist health service. It is proposed to legislate that patients, users and dependants are given the opportunity to notify the supervisory authorities of serious incidents and that a meeting be held after serious incidents for patients, users and relatives. Furthermore, it is proposed that access by the State Health Authority to the closure of establishments be extended to municipal health and care services. An overall committee supports these proposals. It is also proposed to lower the threshold slightly for the use of loss of authorisation and the use of restriction of authorisation when the basis for the reaction concerns serious and repeated professional misconduct of health professionals. The wording of Section 57 of the Health Care Professional Act is therefore proposed to be changed from ‘ gross lack of professional insight’ to ‘significant lack of professional insight’. The majority of the Committee supports this. Furthermore, it is proposed to establish a national regime for the delivery and retention of patient records in the event of transfer and cessation of activity. The national scheme shall apply in cases where the transmission of the records to other healthcare professionals or other activities is not relevant. Today, the records are handed over to the statesmen. A joint committee supports it. The right of appeal is imposed on medical or psychological examinations in the context of supervisory proceedings – this being because such a requirement is intrusive to healthcare professionals, but also because the authorisation can be suspended for as long as the obligation is not complied with. The proposals that do not require legislative amendment are the notification system. The current notification system is a reporting and learning system in the specialist healthcare system, which will help support the quality improvement and patient safety of healthcare institutions. Notifications shall be used to clarify the reasons for, and prevent, incidents and may not be used as a basis for the conduct of supervisory or criminal proceedings. The Arianson Committee proposes an extension of the notification system. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee endorses the Ministry’s assessment that there is a need for a re-evaluation of the present notification system in order to increase knowledge of the extent to which it affects patient and user safety before possibly extending it to all specialist healthcare providers and municipal health and care services. The notification scheme was evaluated by SINTEF in 2014, which concluded that the scheme was at the time of the evaluation and that it was too early to answer questions as to whether it has contributed to improving patient safety in Norwegian hospitals. At the same time, the Riksrevision 2016 study showed that there is considerable variation and potential for improvement in both the reporting culture and the use of notifications of adverse events in health establishments. It is therefore also proposed to give priority to a study commission. Proposals for the organisation and regulation of a study commission have already been addressed in Prop. 68 L, but not yet in force. A committee of inquiry is not intended to assess guilt and liability. There is therefore reason to believe that it can also be met with greater transparency, which in turn will lead to better information. It is supported by the majority of the Committee and refers to the fact that a committee of inquiry has been called for by special interest groups. To this end, the overall assessment of the majority of the Committee is that the proposals contained in the proposal will contribute to further strengthening user and patient safety and to bringing together the duties and rights of the supervisory authorities under one common law.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4017	We all come into contact with the health care system one or more times in the course of life, whether it's for ourselves or as a relative. Most of us can say with our hands on the heart that we have confidence in the Norwegian health care system. After all, we have a well-functioning welfare society with good arrangements, and our country is living and living in the top lists of the world's best country year after year. Trust and security play a major role when we put our lives in the hands of the surgeons, let mom or dad move into a nursing home, or leave our children to health professionals. Trust and security are e.g. absolutely necessary for the proper functioning of treatment, where appropriate operation, and for the proper functioning of the administration. So what makes us people safe? Knowledge means that some people have their own knowledge — knowledge of health, disease and treatment — but also that health professionals we meet have knowledge of the same, etc. Competence and experience are also important. The doctor who treats us may prefer to be a specialist and know a lot about the diseases he treats — nurses and caregivers as well. The reputation of activities also means something for more people. For me, there is especially one important quality that prevails at the top of the list of things that assures me: the competence and understanding of people by health professionals, as well as the ability to provide trust – a smile, a firm handshake, a warm and calm look, the ability to connect. There's not always much to do. But sometimes things are sadly wrong, and the trust is broken or broken. Then we also have to be taken care of. There is also a little reason why we are here today, because by decision of a new Health Care Act, we are helping to ensure that patients, users and relatives are cared for. Promises are important in a society, but sometimes they're no longer quite up to two dates. They may be too rigid, narrow or need to be renewed. This law is essentially a follow-up to the Arianson Committee's investigation, with open cards. The Arianson Committee was given an extended mandate, including: they were given the task of assessing the establishment of a survey commission, as the size has already been decided. Other legislative proposals that were promoted in the investigation are now being brought together in this law. Firstly, a proposal for a new Health Supervision Act is presented. For this government it is important to simplify laws, regulations and practices without losing focus on quality. This new law therefore brings together the current provision on the activities of the supervisory authority, a provision that has until now been scattered over several laws. Furthermore, legal certainty is strengthened by the change in the alert and notification system to include the provision of health and care services by municipalities. This means that patients, users and relatives are given the right to notify the State Health Authority directly of serious incidents. So one doesn't have to go the way of health businesses and their businesses. Requirements to conduct meetings for patients, users and relatives in the event of serious incidents are laid down by law. Public health supervision is extended to the exclusion of the activities of municipal health and care services. The threshold for health professionals to lose or have restrictions on authorisation is lowered by professional negligence. The proposal is also followed up on the proposal for a national system for the delivery and retention of patient records in the event of the transfer and cessation of activities with the Directorate of Health as a data controller. There is a lot of fine text in the law, but it is not always as easy to understand – sometimes including me. That's why I'm simply saying, this government is making this amendment easier for you and me to be safer in our meeting with the health services, and I'm actually quite satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4034	This case is a follow-up to the Arianson selection, NOU 2015:11, which is called: With open cards. Prevention and follow-up of serious incidents in healthcare services. This selection was created by us in the red-green government in our work to strengthen patient safety work in Norway. We in the Center Party have called for a mass follow-up of this NOU through a big message. We record that we are now going straight to promise changes. It seems that we are an unfortunate way of dealing with such an important area in health services, but we support the legislative changes that are being made. We support increasing the obligation to notify serious events to the State Health Authority to cover all health and care services. We also support this by legalising a meeting for patients, users and relatives according to serious events and proposals for a new Health Care Act, but we do not, as we know, support the proposal to create an Investigation Commission. Neither did a plural in the Arianson selection. Something else that the majority in the Arianson Committee thought would be a duty to report to all service providers in the specialist services and in the municipal health and care services. We agree with the Arianson selection. It doesn't follow the government. We think that's unfortunate, and we have a suggestion about that, along with SV. I record that the government is giving priority to a commission of inquiry and expanding the alert system. We think it's not enough. Then I will show you a comment on the matter that concerns the Workplace under the Health West. It is the only outpatient clinic in the country that offers distribution and treatment to people with reduced health as a result of conflict, bullying, sexual harassment or warning in the workplace. The majority writes that ‘it would be unfortunate if Jobfast, which is the only such offer in Norway, were not continued’. I expect Health Minister Höie to take the consequences of this plural remark. I am pleased with the proposal for a decision to ask the government to consider extending the scope of the patient and user environment to the municipal dental services. This was a little bit unclear in the proposition. I am also pleased that there is a joint committee that points out that the practical implementation of a new national system for the retention of patient records in the event of transfer and termination of business can be added to Norwegian health records on Tynset. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. In the listening statements that were referred to in the proposition, it was negative from both the Swedish Archives and the Ministry of Culture, but I understood that it had reason to believe that this was a responsibility that one had to take, so that one would not be able to establish and carry out what is already an established task for Norwegian health archives. Now this is going to come in addition, and I hope it will go very well. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal and comment that the Health Authority recommends a wide review of the supervisory authorities’ responses to health professionals, in order to evaluate the importance of responses to patient safety. The Medical Association shows that they are concerned that when we lower the threshold for administrative reactions, it poorly harmonises that the focus is directed towards systems and the location of responsibility in the healthcare service. We support the legislative changes here, but we suggest that such a broad review be carried out. So I want to deal with our proposals, which we have with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4053	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4058	After eleven hours in the hall, I felt the need to withdraw some time from the pulpit – no then. This is, after all, a very important work that has been done, and as the representative Kjersti Toppe mentioned, the work of the Arianson Committee was the basis. Out of that, the case of a commission of inquiry has come, and today's majority – the government and the majority parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party – have supported the task of establishing that commission of inquiry now. It's very important. As I was on the Health and Care Committee in the previous period, I heard many broken stories from both patients and relatives who had had challenges with patient safety or flaws and deficiencies in the system, and how demanding it is to meet a system that seems to defend itself. Loyalty bands in a sector are demanding. Several also called for a type of investigation competence, which one, as it works today, does not feel visible or interfere early enough. Therefore, the Commission of Inquiry is particularly important to put in place. The legislative work that is now being done is very important. The study Commission is also important for mental health, but greater supervision in general is very important for the patient groups related to mental health and drug use. We have had a number of issues in the last few years about challenges related to different use of coercion in the Norwegian health system, and that inequality must be put to life. We need to understand the basis of coercion on a more uniform basis, and the further follow-up of those patients needs to be improved. The legislative work that has now been done is also important in the light of the debate we have had all day on what the tasks of local democracy are. The supervisory functions in municipalities are also part of this, and there is too much inequality in the supervisory board or patient council – and whatever it is called in the municipalities today. We need to strengthen the work on the local level with those functions and organize it differently. In total, all of this facilitates that, with this legal work, we have the opportunity to do those problems better in the future. So there's still money and resources to be spent, because there's no doubt that it also needs to be a significant boost in competence to get to what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4071	One of the central goals of the government is to create the patient's healthcare. Transparency and systematic efforts to improve the quality of services and patient safety are crucial to achieving this. Should patients and users experience a good offer, it is necessary that healthcare establishments have a quality and management system that contributes to sound and good services. Transparency about quality and risk is essential for learning from the mistakes of others and others and for creating a system for making improvements. I am therefore pleased to be able to promote this proposition with important proposals to help create the healthcare of the patient. The proposition is a follow-up to part of the proposals made by the Arianson Committee in NOU 2015:11, with open cards. Today's Health Supervision Act dates from 1984, and the government believes there is a need for a new Health Supervision Act, which better brings together the rights and duties of the supervisory authority. More comprehensive regulation will be important for the understanding and involvement of non-supervisory authorities in the organisation and rights and obligations of the supervisory authorities. The government proposes to legalise meetings between healthcare professionals and patients, users and relatives after serious incidents. I believe that the proposal will contribute to greater transparency, and not least patients, users and relatives will have the opportunity to get answers to the questions they might have. It is important that patients, users and relatives are given the opportunity to make recordings and experiences after serious incidents have occurred, and we ensure this with this proposal. Such meetings will help to strengthen confidence in healthcare and facilitate transparency and dialogue. At present, only health establishments and establishments have contracts with health establishments or regional health establishments to notify the State's health surveillance of serious incidents. There is no reason for the government to exclude municipalities or others providing health and care services from the same obligation, for example: private actors. It is therefore proposed to extend this obligation to all providers of health and care services. The government also proposes to legislate that patients and relatives can notify the State Health Authority of serious incidents. It is an important signal that the patient perspective is also emphasised in the legislation. This type of warning of serious incidents shall be treated in a manner similar to that used when the alerts are sent from the establishment itself. In addition to the legislative proposals, the proposal contains a reference to other measures to promote patient safety and to provide the patient with healthcare. An important measure is to set up a page in healthnorge.no, where information is collected on schemes that may be relevant to patients and relatives when an adverse event has occurred. Another important and central measure is the new regulation on management and quality improvement in healthcare. The Regulation entered into force on 1 January 2017. The purpose of the new regulation is to contribute to professionally sound health and care services, to systematic work on quality improvement and patient and user safety, and to comply with other requirements of health and care legislation. The regulation has been very well received by the service. I note that a joint committee proposes to extend the scope of the patient and user representatives to county dental services. This is in accordance with the Government's intention in Prop. 71 L for 2016-2017 on the transfer of public dental responsibility to municipalities. The government will come back to Stortinget with a bill proposal about this. The Government is committed to promoting measures that contribute to improving the quality and patient safety of services. I believe that the proposals which now receive a majority in the context of the examination of this proposal, together with the establishment of the committee of inquiry that the Stortinget has already adopted, where the budget of the year is financing its establishment, will contribute to this very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4100	It's going to be line change. No one has asked for the word in reply. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4120	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4129	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. The issue of physical activity in school has repeatedly been promoted in the Stortinget in recent years. No later than April this year, representatives from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environment Party, the Green Party, promoted a proposal for a representative. At that time, the proposal did not have a majority. In the position we are now debating in Stortinget, an overall committee points out that the school is an important area of public health work and that the physical activity of the population needs to be increased. As the setting shows, there's a minority that wants us to assume an average. The majority, who are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are behind the proposal to ask the government to bring forward a case for the Stortinget for a scheme that ensures students from the 1st to the 10th. steps at least one hour of physical activity each day within the number of hours of the day and that it is financed as a public health measure. If everyone is to have equal opportunities, we need to invest more in what ensures our children safe and good growth conditions, and that when the younger ones before they become mentally and physically ill. When you start healthy habits early, they're more likely to last a lifetime. Malnutrition, overweight and lifestyle diseases are an increasing problem among Norwegian children and young people. In prevention, it is well demonstrated that the broad, universal measures are the most beneficial to health. The school has an untapped potential, and by means of measures aimed at school, we all reach children, regardless of parents' income and background. Increased physical activity in children is one of the most important steps we can take together to create good habits. I am pleased that we have put this setting in place today. As I said, the proposal has been promoted several times. Now we see the reality of a new political situation. This is a great victory for children and young people, and not least for our common public health. Several schools have implemented this proposal locally, and we have good experience. There have been quite a few of them gradually. One example is Skjønhaug school in Turkey. Another is Drammen, where the local government has taken responsibility and said that all students will have one hour of physical activity each day. In the Public Health Communication – Mestring and opportunities, the government parties themselves show good experience of physical activity in school. Here they also point to research that shows links between physical activity and better cognitive skills. Research is clear, and local examples show that it is feasible. That is why the majority of the committee is a proponent of just this proposal for one hour of physical activity daily in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4146	We all agree that physical activity is important to public health. An invaluable work is done every day from a number of associations and fires, teachers and many others to facilitate a healthy and active leisure time. All of us Nordics should be better off being active every day. We in the Right want more physical activity into school, but we very much disagree with the majority parties that this is to be ordered in as rigorous a manner as is appropriate in the matter. There is today an experiment among a range of secondary schools where the purpose is, among other things, is to provide a better knowledge base for future work on physical activity and physical exercise in initial training. The right considers that we should wait for that report. By prioritizing the report, Stortinget signals that we are not so concerned about what results and advice the report ends with. However, we went along with the Progress Party and the Left on a compromise proposal, in the hope that a majority could support it. Our proposal will give schools and teachers greater flexibility than the proposal that is now available for majority voting. Our compromise proposal is: ‘The government asks the government to promote a case on how to facilitate, on average, one hour of physical activity on a daily basis, within today’s frame metal, for students between 1 and 10. Steps.’;» Such a decision would allow for a greater degree of freedom of method and take into account that schools should be able to control everyday life themselves, while giving them outer framework. We will follow the signals given in the debate and come back to our vote in a later article. We agree with the majority of the parties that teachers can use nature more in their teaching. At the same time, we must never forget what is the school's main mission. Physical activity is important, but activity must take place in a way that makes young people happy to be active. The goal must be that they continue to be active as adults. To do that, students should have good experiences. With our proposal we open up so that the school can take the children on longer trips in the woods and fields, preferably with overnight stays. Children and young people can experience experiences that parents do not have time to do, and students can have an inner desire to spend more time in nature. This will have a long-standing and good effect and will be possible with our compromise proposal. Longer trips in forest and land will not be possible if schools are to follow rigid rules of at least one hour of physical activity each day. Should the school follow those rules, it will not be possible to set aside time for forest trips. The proposal of the majority parties intervenes directly in school everyday life and again demands teachers. We in the Right are responding to the demand for at least one hour of physical activity going beyond teachers' freedom of method. I will give the voice of a teacher from Horten. I think he's very flexible and solution-oriented. He can tell that the students in Horten have 30 minutes of physical activity in teaching every day. Activities shall have educational content and contribute to learning as requested by the majority of the Committee. The teacher says this is going relatively well. But he also says that this is a school with 23 classes and a building that goes over 5 floors. To introduce a requirement of at least 60 minutes of physical activity at all schools in the country sounds good, but implementation can be very challenging when many classes are to carry out the activities in part at the same time, on a small area. This could cause a lot of anxiety in school. There is also a question of 60 consecutive minutes of physical activity giving the desired effect. The activity level will most likely fade off. Probably 20 minutes long enough. In other words, in addition to planning other courses, the teacher will also prepare three activities each day, giving nearly 600 activities during a school year. While there are many activities that can be re-used, the activities should be motivating and make students wanting to remain physically active as adults, activities need to be varied and motivating. We must not forget that a requirement for at least one hour of physical activity every day is going to make great demands on the teachers. They must set aside time to prepare the activities, and the location of activities and the classes accessing the facilities of the school must be coordinated. If we believe that physical activity should contain quality, we must be willing to give teachers the necessary time to prepare, and it costs. The proposal from the majority parties is that this hour be carried out within today's frame metal. It will be at the expense of other subjects. That is why we believe that the majority parties should say something about which subjects should be downgraded. This matter is far more than a question of public health. Since it is so governing for school everyday life, the matter should be within the Education and Research Committee. We in the Right are trailers of physical activity, not just among the students from the 1st to the 10th stage, but among all our inhabitants, from 0 to 100. I would therefore encourage all of the wholesale representatives to set off at least one hour each day for physical activity. We should never forget that we are role models in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4172	I am absolutely sure that everyone in this room fully agrees that physical activity is important to all of us. Nor is there any doubt that physical activity has a positive effect on our health, both physically and mentally. The Progress Party has been working for many years to strengthen public health work and increase the physical activity of the entire population. I am therefore very pleased that the government has taken many steps to implement measures that will help to improve public health and increase the physical activity of all. Of course, the Progress Party is also pleased with the decisions taken in the context of the Public Health Communication, and I would like to point out that more efforts have been made to increase the physical activity. The proposal for increased physical activity in school has been promoted several times in this room. The Progress Party promoted, inter alia: The same proposal in 2012, however, was made conditional on looking at increased frame metals, because the challenge is that this can quickly go beyond other activities or other types of school education. That is why I agree with the previous speakers that this is enough of a proposal which should also be made in the Committee on Education, because here I believe it has been very important for the Committee from the public health point of view. I think everyone agrees on that, but it also has some educational challenges. A few days ago, Freedom Norway was well represented in the hiking hall. They said they were extremely satisfied with the proposal – they thought it was a very good proposal. It's obviously from the public health point of view, and I get that very well. I also experience organizations that are offensive, and that would like to help us improve public health. But I also record that not so long after came reactions from others, as the previous representative was also up and said something about, namely from those who are going to attend and implement this in school, and that there may be some challenges. It was some of the reasons why the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have promoted a minority proposal here, which is just thinking about having more physical activity in school. There's also a trial project going on with 2700 9th grade students. I think you have to say that it's probably easier to get this in a good way at the lower classes. For example, when you have: comes a little bit more up in high school, it might be a little more challenging to be able to do this the same way and into the profession. I definitely think there's a lot out there that's creative. I experience many teachers and municipalities that are creative. And that wants to find the good solutions. But there are probably also some challenges, so maybe it would be good if the educational staff had also been involved and discussed, and they will certainly be in this debate as well. I'm referring to the proposal of the minority in the committee. We are very concerned about the public health perspective and the importance of it, and that this is good for both the physical and mental health of children and everyone else. We're concerned about it and want to get there, but we think having a rigid system that says you're going to have 60 minutes or one hour every day, can be challenging to do in a good way. That's why we've come up with a compromise that says you should have an average of one hour of physical activity every day. So I think it's important to clarify that you don't want a stopwatch to make sure you have this. I think you can do it in a good way locally. I think it was good to say this, because it could be a discussion if you have one hour on average every day, or what it's like -- and I don't think anyone deserves it. But I think everyone deserves that we're able to get more physical activity into, and that you're creative and you look at the possibilities within the subjects to go into the physical and get more physical activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4189	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4194	The three main public health policy objectives, as stated in the latest public health report of 2013, are: Norway should be among the three countries in the world with the highest life expectancy. The population shall experience several years of well-being and well-being and reduced social health differences. A society is to be created to promote health in the whole population. The proposal from the Centre Party for a scheme to secure at least one hour of physical activity every day from 1 to 10. step, is a completely necessary proposal if we are to achieve these measures that a group of caverns have set themselves behind. Today, 15 years have passed since the Central Party first put forward this proposal for the Storting. Today we have many parties with us, both in and outside the government. During the red-green period of government, this was determined as a target in folk helselova, which came in 2011. It was set as a target in our public health report, which came in 2013, but after the government shift in 2013, the goal of one hour of physical activity for all children and young people in school was reduced to a measure of increased physical activity. We know that the relationship between physical activity and health is well documented. Physical activity has a positive health effect both in the case of the non-infectious diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic obstructive lung diseases and cancer, but also in the case of mental health. The physical activity level in Norway is too low. Lack of physical activity is a major risk factor for poor health. We think that the school may be the most important common arena where children and young people meet across the board, and where we think preventive public health work must become a greater part than today. The Institute of Public Health states that most six-year-olds comply with the recommendations on daily physical activity, but only 50 pst. 15-year-olds do the same thing. That's why we think the time is overdue to secure all the elephants from the 1st to the 10th. Steps at least one hour of physical activity every day, and we think we have to learn from the good examples. This is not something we're making up. We have looked at the good local examples where this was practiced today, as in the Drama and in the Sogndal. This is done within the hour of the day by making local adjustments and without significant changes to the length of the school day. Where this has been a success, they have organized leisure and school days in a slightly different way. They've expanded the school day with a space between 5 and 15 minutes. They have taken some time from other subjects, and then they may use physical activity as a working method in other subjects on the agenda. So we're saying that we can do this without expanding the hour by an entire hour. But that doesn't mean the Center Party doesn't think this will cost money, because it will. It's a public health priority, and then there's a choice between prevention or repair. Our proposal is to ask the government to file a case for the Storting on this. We are criticised for the poor premise of the proposal. No, we're asking for something. Then this tutorial is to include all the recordings for which the frames need to be in order for this to be carried out in the schools. We stress that there should be great freedom locally for how this goal is to be achieved. Now the government is given the task of delivering such a matter to the Stortinget, and then we can have this debate again before it is realized out there. There were four party leaders who in our proposal put forward a similar one, asking for a holistic strategy for physical health, but also proposing this. The fact that the same parties were behind it did not come as a surprise. And I'm very... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4225	I think a lot of people here can feel a little bit about what it's like to sit still for a long time, after the municipal committee has kept us waiting for quite a few hours, but this is a great and important thing. Physical activity improves health. It prevents problems instead of repairing them, and it teaches young good habits early. And differences in Norway are reduced when everyone receives the same good health service. But it also provides better learning. Activity and movement make us remember more and learn better. It gives a more practical day of school, which accommodates more than just those who are able to sit six hours in a stretch on the school bench and doggy, and it creates – shows the studies we have had – more well-being and even less bullying at school. The question here is, are we really going to accept a school where little kids are going to sit quietly, stuck in rows and rows, six hours in a classroom? Of course we shouldn't. Fortunately, many teachers in Norway are already implementing this. They do a good job, but school owners around the country refuse to set up with resources and time to make this possible. This decision is a marshalling ground from Stortinget to school owners and municipalities around the country to secure teachers the resources they need. optimally, SV believes that this should be seen in the context of the renewal of the curriculum. There would have been a majority for it if it wasn't for the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party not to stand in that note. I think that's very sad, because I think this would have been the best, seen in that context. Although SV thinks this is a party day, it is clear that SV has a different primary position than other parties in this hall. We're alone on a note where we say it's essentially with more time and more resources to implement this. In our budget, we put in SV of 135 million. NOK at the beginning of the escalating plan, and we set of 241 million. kr to increased teacher's density. But we also believe that the best should not be the enemy of good. We're willing to take a decision to see what the government can get back with, because we know that it gives better learning, and it gives better health. So I have to say that it's special to hear the right post we've already heard, and we'll probably hear more of it. The right here is all of a sudden talking about time thieves in school. If the Right is really concerned about time thieves in school, I am happy to start working with them in the field of education, where you will be with SV and cut down on target management in school, cut down on unnecessary testing, cut down on the amount of academic competence goals and join in increasing the number of teachers in school – not just because the Christian People's Party is forcing you to do it, but because you see that the teachers need more resources. If you really mean this, we're looking forward to a collaboration, and then we can also expand the hours together, with more time and more resources, as SV suggests, so that all students can get one hour of physical activity every day. This is an important decision, but now the most important thing, namely the follow-up from the government. For SV, there are three things that need to be done: there is enough time and resources, to see this in the context of the renewal of the curriculum, as well as that it has to be done in cooperation with the sector. So I'll end by joining some of what Bård Hoksrud from the Progress Party said. We in SV also believe that people should not have to wear a stopwatch to measure this. The reason why we couldn't agree with the proposal that came over the table from the Right at the very last meeting is that we're concerned about, for example, that. a week at camp school will be used to say that then many months of physical activity can be removed, and you don't have to do anything anymore. We're willing to cooperate and look at opportunities, but there can't be anything that deprives young children of the ability to move. And there must be a clear and clear march ground for the school owners, for the municipalities, that they should organize so that teachers can work physically and actively, so we are sure that teachers really want if they get the time and resources they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4244	The President would like to remind you that you are speaking to the President of the Grand Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4249	This case has two important and equivalent sides. Firstly, it is about public health and how the Storting can facilitate an increase in physical activity in the population, providing health benefits and preventing both disease in the population and increased health expenditure. Secondly, it's about how we put up the contents of the school, and how the Storting is going to lead both the hours and the academic judgement of the teachers and the pedagogical sovereignty. The left-hand side of this case has been that we need to find a solution that takes good care of both, and I do not think that the proposal to have a majority today is doing so. The last time this matter was up, just before the summer, all parties stressed the need for an action plan for physical activity, which was also unanimously adopted. In addition, the Left took the initiative to propose to facilitate increased physical activity in primary school in more subjects than physical training, and for more mental training in school. The mind is otherwise omitted from the proposal of the representative of the Central Party – understand me correctly. The proposal was supported by the Right and Advance Party and thus received a majority. I think the department was barely ready to read the decision before the Senterpartiet delivered the proposal for a representative that we are dealing with today. I think this is a special way of managing parliamentary responsibility. The left continues to give priority to investing in public health for children and young people, which we know is both socio-economically very profitable and good for the quality of life of individuals and opportunities later in life. During the previous period, consistent public health priorities were highest in the health budgets and budgetary negotiations, in front of, for example: escalation in the hospital sector — perhaps to the dismay of the Council of State. There were no other parties that did it. We've got a couple of public health billions through civil cooperation. That's good. It's about walking and cycling routes, it's about activities, it's not just about mental health, and it's about swimming training – not least in kindergartens. All of this is important for public health, and physical activity in school is a central part of this work. According to the Institute of Public Health, 16 pst. of all Norwegian third classes obese. Obesity and obesity are a serious challenge to public health. The relationship between physical activity and good health is evident, and there is no doubt that the school plays an important role in developing attitudes and good practice and smoothing social differences in living and health. Physical activity in childhood provides the basis for mastering, well-being and health later in life. Therefore, in June, the Stortinget also adopted the proposal of the Left to facilitate increased physical activity in primary schools in more than one subject than body training. That is why today the Left is voting for a proposal to ask the government to promote a case for the Storting on how to accommodate one hour of physical activity on average daily. The proposal supported by the majority of the Committee does not call for an assessment, but for an introduction, irrespective of the implications for teachers' educational freedom and the ongoing work on revising curricula. Left support is not supported. There has been no more than one year since Stortinget treated Report. Art. 28 for 2015–2016, Facts – Depression – Understanding. A renewal of the Knowledge Lift. A Joint Committee, in its review of the renewal of curricula, concluded that it ‘supports the government in the need for fewer and clearer objectives’. The Committee also stated that it: ‘provides that the process of renewal of the curriculum takes place in close cooperation with professional environments and representatives of teachers, school leaders and school owners’. Nevertheless, through treatment in different non-educational committees, the Stortinget continues to impose detailed guidance on the learning environment in the individual classrooms, without being part of the innovation, and without involving teachers, school managers and school owners, all of whom are opposed to this way of introducing physical activity in the school. The size cannot work this way. It's not the recipe of a good school. We often look to Finland for inspiration for a good school. The school researcher Hilde Wågsås Afdal says this: While Norway’s reforms have been characterised by strong political governance, there is little such governance in Finland. You should take note of that. I would like to mention that, in addition to increasing the organisation of physical activity in school, it is even more important to facilitate this in kindergartens. Good habits are learned early and follow the person throughout his life. I want to add that it's a public health challenge that 60 pst. by the body trainers are skilled and 40 pst. unskilled, i.e. without immersion in the physical exercise subject in which they teach. The left has proposed that all students be entitled to a qualified teacher. It's a good place to start, also in a public health perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4273	We all agree that prevention, public health and physical activity are important. So the questions are, how do we achieve these goals? How do we use our political power as elected representatives for the benefit of public health? What concrete action are we taking? The Christian People's Party believes that it is right to ask the government to promote a case for the Storting for a scheme that ensures students at least one hour of physical activity every day within today's hour. I say at least one hour, because it's important for us to move every day. It's not good for us to collect it up to one day a week. The medical association thinks this is a good public health measure. But for the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that this proposal for a decision does not involve an extra exercise time. This is about physical activity integrated into other subjects and about the use of nature as the learning arena. We believe it is positive that physical activity is combined with other schools. I think it's important to bear in mind that this is about more than gymnastics. If we're going to increase students' motivation to be physically active in leisure time and the rest of their lives, it's important to choose ambitious activities where everyone experiences mastering. Outdoor activities offer a number of such forms of activity, enabling everyone to experience their success. It is an independent point that students get more time outdoors and in the natural environment. Many schools have good experience in using nature as classrooms and teaching in all subjects through active forms of learning outside. The Christian People’s Party agrees with those who stress that it is natural that suggestions for more physical activity should be seen in the context of future curriculum work. It will be important that physical activity is made part of the curriculum. The Health Committee’s position underlines that the proposal is about changes that lie within today’s framework metal. The flexibility obtained by law and regulation for school owners and primary schools shall be there. The proposal builds on the fact that it is part of the teacher’s professional judgement and pursuit of the profession to choose methods that contribute to the achievement of the objectives of competence for students. According to Mr Røe Isaksen, Minister of Knowledge expressed strong opposition to the Stortinge's proposal for a decision on more physical activity in school on 4 December this year. He said that it might be because the Christian People's Party is tied up with the budgetary agreements, as they are, they don't realize that an hour's physical activity is going to cost especially with money every day. It is true that the Christian People's Party is bound to the 2018 budget agreement. The 2019 budget has not been added. In any case, the Council of State makes mistakes in its speculations. The reason why the Christian People's Party did not fight for extra appropriations for this is that the Christian People's Party in budgetary work asked questions about cost calculations and got a response from the Ministry of Knowledge that if we introduced at least one hour of physical activity in 1–4. class within today's frame metal would not increase costs. The Black Council's own department. Public health is challenging. It costs money, yes, but it must also be political will to say that alcohol, tobacco, fat and sugar are linked to activity. It is tiring that some crowds are about jumping more and running less. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party believes that this is an important measure, not to put on the brakes in school, but to provide a good public health measure, providing a good basis for all kids in Norwegian school. With this Christian People's Party recommends setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4293	The Greens will give their full support to the proposal for more physical activity in primary school. We were also part of the so-called Jonas Grand Coalition in spring, which promoted this in the representative proposal 113 S for 2016-2017, but had to record that it was voted down. This is central to the Greens. Now, of course, we support it again, because we want the school to train whole people, not just thinking ability. Physical activity is a source of mastering and quality of life, and it is one of the most important factors for good health. The fact that children are regularly physically active from an early age can contribute to good health habits throughout their lives. The Health Directorate’s recommendation for children and young people is at least one hour of physical activity every day. At the same time, we know that not all children are physically active in leisure. Almost 10 pst. of children between 6 and 15 years of age, they never train, i.e. is in motion. We also know that children from low-income families have a higher risk of developing health problems. By phased into one hour of physical activity in the school day, we all ensure a minimum of activity, not only through ordinary gym, but also through alternative and creative learning methods. For the Greens, this is about the school taking social responsibility and contributing to good public health. It is fully possible to do this without extending the school day. I would like to stress that it is the teachers in common, the school as a pedagogical organization, who must ensure that this happens in a safe and creative way. Physical activity can be baked into all existing subjects, e.g. in the form of outdoor activities. The Greens believe that the proposal for physical activity is an excellent opportunity to provide schoolchildren with more time in nature. There is absolutely no lack of empirical health research that confirms that human beings get better mental health and increased learning ability from living in nature. Some researchers talk about something called "Nature Deficit Disorder", or "Nature Deficit Disorder", to describe a state where children don't have enough time to interact with natural elements like stone, water, trees and grass. Particularly for troubled children, children with ADHD, or ‘Attention Deficit Disorder’, contact with nature is important to prevent concentration problems and stress. Such alarming children become easily school losers when school day is characterized by silent sitting and traditional on-board education. More varied forms of learning can help ensure that the right to adapted education is given much greater consideration. The aim must be for all children, including those who are not comfortable in the classroom situation, to experience learning and mastering in a way that suits them. In addition, outdoor activities may provide new dimensions for teaching. Outdoor education is about students learning about reality, about nature, about society in society, about the surrounding environment in the community. Not least, such outdoor education may be a door opener to outdoor life and natural experiences. One hour of daily physical activity is an important first step towards a school that much more promotes health, well-being and mastering. Second step is that the physical activity takes place outside the four walls of the classroom. Unfortunately, however, many schools, especially in central areas, lack access to decent outdoor areas. A third step must therefore be to ensure that all schoolchildren have access to nature in their neighbourhood. That is why the Greens are working on a proposal for a near-natural law, which is now under consideration in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The proposal is about protecting areas that are important for outdoors and nature experiences in the vicinity of where people live. The hundreds of metres of forest and other large and small-scale near-natures are crucial if we are to succeed in moving some of the teaching out of the classroom. The proposal for more physical activity in school is a public health measure and a very social measure. If nothing is done to improve public health today, it will eventually force radical tax increases or cuts in welfare services in the future. The Greens therefore believe it is important that we now also use the opportunity to promote alternative and varied learning environments, especially outdoors. This will benefit all schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4310	One of the most important building blocks in the Norwegian welfare state has been the primary school. The Norwegian Joint School has given all equal rights to education on behalf of the Community. In recent decades, this system has been under intense pressure through errors, reforms, teaching shortages and target management, which have created a more theory-based school, where there is less and less room for relevant practical work — and not least physical activity. It has led to a school that favors a certain type of student. Therefore Red wants more practical education and a more varied school day. There is also no doubt that too many children and young people are sitting too quiet and that this is a public health problem. Many also suggest that more activity during the school day can make it easier to keep up with it in an hour. And maybe the requirement of physical activity can also be an opportunity to think again and move more education out of the classroom, for the benefit of those students who get little out of the board lesson. Therefore, Red will support the resolution’s proposal for a decision, from the SV, the Central Party, the Workers’ Party and the Christian People’s Party, but not without a certain bismach – for there are also reasons to be skeptical. The proposal challenges teachers' freedom of method, the right to teach as they wish on the basis of their professional judgement. Now they get another claim from Stortinget about something that goes into teaching every day. This obviously weakens the autonomy of teachers, and that is also why the Association of Education, the Association of School Leaders and the Norwegian Lektorlag are opposed to the proposal. When the teachers feel that they are being outraged by the politicians, I realize that many people get the impression that we don't fully trust their skills as professionals. Therefore, Red has understood the criticism of this proposal by the teachers. Red is not for a full-time school, so we think it is good that the proposal does not include an extension of the school day. Today's curricula already contain too many objectives, and when more objectives and leadership are added, without more resources or time to implement them, it may be difficult to get up. I was also not very reassured when one of the initiators of the proposal, Kjersti Toppe from the Central Party, was asked how this should work in practice. She pointed to the Drammen, where they've set aside time for school activity, and said the following: “In the drama they take 25 minutes from the free minute and then you have half an hour only there.” Getting half an hour out of 25 minutes is a trick in itself, but the important thing in this context is that the solution cannot be to take time from the free minutes, which often already contain activity or other student-driven play, so to give it time to physical activity. Then the win goes into the spin. Then, in practice, we're simply rejuvenating the time that is already being used for activity today, without devoting time to the promised new hour of physical activity. Next year, new curricula will also come as part of the innovation. That's why this decision comes a little early. We hope that the government sees the decision in the context of the overall review of the curriculum. In our view, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left proposals are no improvement on the opposition's proposals. Opening up one hour of activity per day on average could mean sending students to one week of camp school and covering most of the activity requirement for the six months. It will neither ensure the activity nor preserve the freedom of method of teachers, as we see it. To sum up, we recognise that there are good reasons to vote for and against the proposal. When we land on supporting the position, it's because we see the need for a school that suits several types of students, because children and young people need more activity in everyday life, and not least because it's not a final proposal. It is to be consulted, and we expect the government to include the teachers' input and our input before the matter comes back to the Stortinge for final treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4332	Before the President-in-Office of the Council of State Höie gets the floor, the President will point out that the regulatory time is immediately over, and things may indicate that we are going to hold on until after noon. 22nd@item: inlistbox The President therefore proposes that the Stortinget continue the meeting until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4339	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Moxnes, for a good speech on why a country should be at the opposite conclusion, namely to vote against this proposal, and not least for his great confidence in the government when the government is going to clean up afterwards. That's good. Physical activity is important to our physical and mental health. Daily physical activity is a natural part of the growth of children and young people. Physical activity is necessary for children and young people to grow and develop motor, social and cognitiveally. If the setting is adopted, it raises a number of issues which are primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge. The goal of more physical activity during the school day is a goal shared by the Minister of Knowledge and I, but it is not immaterial how this is done, nor in a public health perspective. In the treatment of Report. St. 28, on the content of the subjects, it was established that there is a need to clean up the curricula, and that fewer and clearer objectives are needed. Among other things, the stork went its acceptance that it is: «the responsibilities and professional judgement of teachers, which shall determine the methods and instruments to be used in education to achieve the objectives of competence and to fulfil the general social mandate of the school.» The Committee’s majority recommendation is thus now at risk of becoming – and is already becoming – a conflict case in Norwegian school. In the field of vocational and hourly distribution, there is already flexibility for school owners and schools to organise everyday school life in a way that can allow day-to-day physical activity. Many schools find solutions and local adaptations within this space of action, and that is also something that I encourage and have set up a national centre to disseminate knowledge about. But this proposal deprives schools of the opportunity to assess for themselves how to use this flexibility and how to ensure that students move more during the school day. The need may also vary between steps. The representatives claim that there is no method management as long as they do not tell how physical activity is to be carried out. However, the proposal will involve method management as long as teachers are required to use physical activity as a method and instrument in professional hours that have no curriculum objective for physical activity. About 80-90 pst. children of primary school age follow actual recommendations of at least one hour of physical activity per day. In addition, the legislation on primary education already stipulates that pupils aged 5 to 7 are: have a right to regular physical activity other than physical exercise. This total shall be 76 hours. Not least, physical exercise is the third largest subject in primary school, according to Norwegian and mathematics. The challenge is youth, which must meet with other and more age-adapted solutions. What's good for a first-grader is not as topical for a high-school student. Only half of the 15-year-olds are sufficiently physically active, while time for rest and rest increases. The level of activity falls sharply from the age of 9 to 11 to the age of 15. The knowledge we have about youth today is deficient, as research is largely carried out on the middle and middle stages. The ongoing youth research project is looking for answers to just how we are going to meet this student group. Its purpose is, among other things: to contribute to knowledge-based assessment of future work on physical activity and physical activity in initial training. The research report from this comprehensive project, which includes 28 schools and several thousand students, will be available early in 2019. The representatives' proposal to take time from other subjects is comprehensive and will be an obligation for school owners. Such a requirement must be regulated, either by law or by regulation, and it is the government's preliminary assessment that this should be consulted. The proposal involves a number of fundamental issues that need to be considered in greater detail, and we also note that several of the teachers’ organisations express themselves very critically about the proposal. The government is now developing an action plan for physical activity, which Stortinget has asked for. The school is among the arenas to be included in the action plan, which will be presented in spring 2019. It is important that we contribute in many ways to more physical activity throughout society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4373	We know that it's the good habits, the routines and the everyday life that are crucial. The extra day out twice a month is great, but it can't count on or replace the regular activity. The right and the minority represent an average proposal. I think that's problematic. The councils have themselves been the drivers of the Dine30 campaign. Does the Council of State think that a long mountain trip a year could replace the daily activity, and does he view it differently when it comes to children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4378	One of the recommendations in Dine30 is that an adult should be active for at least 30 minutes a day, but it is also part of the recommendations that if one fails to do it every day during the week, one can take it again, for example. at the end of the week. It's something like this. I do, because it's not always I have time for the 30 minutes of the weekdays. It is the total activity during the week that is crucial. However, it is recommended that children and adolescents are active at least one hour a day. There is no disagreement about this, and that is not what this debate is about. This debate is essentially about the way the Storting obliges the schools to implement this, and that is what the disagreement is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4385	The debate is just about ensuring the regular, daily physical activity, and not reversing into the future with a decision that has been made in advance about the level of ambition. I understand that the Council of State has previously thought that we should wait until the test project in high school is completed. At the same time, the Council of State itself has shown that it has been implemented with good experience in several places. Can the Council of State explain to me why some schools should be able to do it, and not others, and what are we specifically waiting for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4392	What characterises pilots operating locally with local enthusiasm is precisely that. One finds good, flexible solutions, and it is managed locally. It's very often good results. What research gives us knowledge is how it is possible to implement changes that can also be implemented, for example. in schools where a person does not have a local fireman who is behind and who is systematically working on this. This is particularly important for youth. In childhood, it is not difficult to engage in more physical activity during the school day, and therefore most do, but it is more complicated in childhood, and it is unfortunately not sufficiently recognised by today’s decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4397	It was sad that we did not get a new government after the election, but what was good was that we got a weak government and a strong opposition. Therefore, this proposal is possible today – that is the case before the summer. I think it's a paradox when we hear a Minister of Health looking for all possible arguments for not introducing a health care agency and acting more like a minister of knowledge than a minister of public health. Now the point is that this is adopted, it will be a measure for children and young people to have one hour of physical activity in school, and the government will now have to follow this up. Now it is no longer useful to oppose this proposal, now it has to be implemented in some way. So my question is, can we be sure that Minister of Public Health Höie takes this decision seriously and comes back with a matter in a proper way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4406	Yes, Stortinget can be absolutely certain that the government will follow up what is being decided today. However, following up such a decision also means pointing to the challenges that this decision will present to the school. That's why when someone makes such a claim, it's going to be. require regulation either by law or by regulation, it must be consulted, one must illuminate all aspects thereof. It's taking such a decision seriously. But I record that this representative and several other representatives who support this proposal have very high confidence that the government is well equipped to find out all the questions that those who support the proposal obviously are not able to answer themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4418	We who are behind the proposal have the ability to answer those questions, but that's not our job. We are not executives in Norway, and if the Council of State and the Right here in the Chamber really believe that the opposition on the Stortinget should start delivering completed proposals ready for implementation, without giving the government a chance to influence them, I think the government will end up creating much bigger problems for itself than they really want to do. What's really going on is that kids have to move. It's about health, and it's about learning. The opposite of this proposal is to accept that children should remain in a row and row in a classroom, six hours in a stretch. We know that many teachers don't want this, but some school owners don't give teachers the resources they need. It is very serious if the Council of State accepts that school owners and municipalities should continue to be able to implement such a regime. So we know that physical activity is important, and the Council of State is now talking about him being for physical activity. I may be new at Stortinget, but I've learned that party speakers are one thing, and action is another. If he really wants the extension, he can support SV's suggestion for the extension of the hour and ensure physical activity like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4427	I just want to say that the question of giving teachers the resources they need is absolutely central. SV now supports a proposal requiring one hour of physical activity during the school day within the current time resources. This means that SV acts in the hall today as the school owner that the representative himself criticised. It is precisely to get a knowledge base on how this can be done in a good way at the youth level, which is the background that my advice to the committee was to await the great research project that I, along with the Minister of Knowledge, have started. Our intention is also to get more physical activity into school, but we'll do it in a knowledge-based way, a safe way, not least where the challenges are greatest, in the youth. It would have been wise to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4432	The Council of State said in its speech that youth is moving less, and kids are moving more than young people. The Health Directorate recommends one hour of physical activity for young people and 30 minutes of physical activity for adults — daily and not on average. Then one also shows that children who are active learn better. Then it is not useful to train on Friday if they want to have the activity during the week. My question to the Council of State is, how does the Council of State think that a person is going to make young people move more, when he himself says in his post that they are moving less? The youth school is a problem, because there are several subjects going in. How does the Council of States want us to get young people to move more if we don't put it into school?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4437	I share the representative's view that there has to be more physical activity in school, especially in the early stages, because that's where we don't succeed. But how we're going to do that is exactly what I want research-based knowledge about, because we don't have that today. We have some local examples, but it's very often based on the efforts of fires. We need research-based knowledge, and that's why I've prioritised spending money on it. The research project is in progress. The pilot was finished in the fall. Now we have expanded to several schools, and the result will be available early in 2019. I think it would have been wise if Stortinget had waited for that knowledge before one decided that this should be imposed as a claim on all schools, without one knowing how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4442	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4449	I would first like to remind you that one must never be surprised that a councillor from the Right is concerned with knowledge, which Kjersti Toppe was. There are political contexts, and I have allowed myself to see the relationship between health policy and education policy. We have suggested that this is a matter which should be a matter for the Education Committee and not for the Health Committee, but it is a good thing that we in the Health Committee should also participate in a school debate. Having said that, I believe, like the Council of State, that the representative Moxnes argued very well against the proposal for a decision, which Red obviously supports. Wilkinson said that we made a proposal in the last few years. Well, it was an attempt to reach a compromise that would give some more flexibility, and we hoped that the committee could gather on it. When we failed, we chose to stand on the proposal. Then we have signaled earlier today that we would follow the debate. I do not see that any parties have signalled the desire to vote in favour of the compromise proposal, and then we see no reason to vote for it either. So I just want to signal with this that the right does not vote for the proposal that, together with the Progress Party and the Left, we are in the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4458	Speaking of still sitting: Now my leg has actually fallen asleep, so it's good we've gotten a good deal down on the case list. As a mother of four children, two of whom have started school, I have had some thoughts about the transition from kindergarten to school. In kindergarten, there is a lot of free play, while being met with a lot of sitting as soon as you start in the first class. I worked as a journalist a few years ago, and then I wrote an article about concentration and working habits. I interviewed Cecilie Thunem-Saanum, who wrote the book "Time for All". Her message is that it is usually possible to work highly concentratedly for only 18–25 minutes. Sometimes I think we might expect a little too much of the youngest when we put them on the school bench. The representative Erlend Larsen was also concerned about this with concentration and was concerned that you might not have managed more than a 20-minute increase in physical activity in the sling. I'm more concerned that you can't sit still in the classroom for a long time, at least that's my experience with my kids. As a mother, I am happy that the children will finally get a school day where learning and physical activity go hand in hand. There is also a lot of research that shows that learning outcomes are improving, as well as, of course, public health benefits, which is why we are dealing with the matter here in the Health Committee. I even have a boy who's a little worried. Often the option is for him to take a walk out the stairs and run a little when there is a bit of scratching in the body. I am pleased that teachers can now use even more tools to use physical activity in teaching. I would like to make a comment on the article from Grimstad. I think it is wonderful to hear the representative almost boasted that the Left has underfunded the hospitals over several years. It is clear that the Left also wants more physical activity in the hospitals, because there is little doubt that the Left believes that hospital employees have to run faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4471	I don't think any political parties are against physical activity, either in school or in society. I think we all share the concern about an ever-increasing obesity and that the youth generation is not as much in motion as before. This is well documented and could lead to lifestyle diseases and increasing societal challenges. Therefore, the Right also has a desire for increased physical activity in school, so the Government has added increased physical activity to the government platform, and therefore the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health have launched a research project of 6 million. kr, which involves 29 schools, and is managed by Norway's Sports School in cooperation with the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity and the University of Stavanger and the University of Agder. The goal is to increase knowledge of how to achieve the best possible increase in physical activity in school, and how to ensure this best, with increased hours or within today’s frame metal, and what kind of device it should have – knowledge that we do not currently have a good enough insight into. When the majority of the Health Committee performs to say that ‘we have a solid basis for decision-making to introduce one hour’s physical activity each day’ within today’s ram ti metal, it is a little alarming. It's research that increased activity is good for people, we have a good foundation to conclude on. What today’s outline of the government’s mission will mean for teachers the freedom of method, the costs of the maximum necessary preparation time and not least for the subjects and the need for further training among teachers, for example, are not answered. The right-hand side of this case has clearly shown that we want to increase physical activity, and we have shown a willingness to compromise in order to ensure a slightly greater flexibility in such an implementation. However, when it comes to deciding to ensure one hour of physical activity every day, I think you should reflect on it a little. How do you ensure something politically? Well, you have to legislate, or at least you have to introduce some kind of reporting or something that makes us know that it's actually implemented. It means a lot of bureaucracy, at least it means that you're now pointing at rather rigid systems, and you're actually going to have to make sure something. I hope that the majority has thought through this and that it will also help, for example. time thieves, unnecessary reporting and more bureaucracy in school. Many of the same parties call for a reform of trust in school, and some say that you have to let the teacher be a teacher – yes, some have even written a book about it. Today, however, many of these principles have been abandoned.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4482	Here I am proud to make proposals that are cheering for breakthrough. One hour of physical activity every day is good for health, and it is good for school students. I want to ask you, what does the government, the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute have in common? Well, they say something about how long we should be physically active every day for the best of lifestyle and health. The Health Directorate just recommends that children should be active for at least 60 minutes each day, as several representatives have pointed out. Now we get to celebrate that we ensure the kids this in school. The role of the school is the formation and education of students — no doubt so — and then we must recognise that public health, attitudes and habits are an important part of this. I am happy to hear that there are several representatives who say they are for a more practical and active school. It is good to allow students to expand through physical activity and through activities with a high level of appetite where students learn that being physically active is a good thing. The Centre Party already considers this to be part of the school’s mandate. In the overall part of the curriculum, there is support for this having a place in school, for example: we can quote the new general part set out on 1 September: ‘The students are formed in contact with others and through physical and aesthetic development that promotes mobility and mastering.’ The centre party and the teachers agree that the school's mission is something far more than theoretical knowledge and basic subjects. Young people need to be able to develop physically through different activities during everyday school life. It's also important for learning. The representative of Hoksrud questions the practical implementation of the proposal and whether it should have been included in the Education and Research Committee as well. I can reassure the representative that two of the rapporteurs are in this very committee, and we can do well to ensure that this is feasible. As a teacher, I can confirm that this is feasible. Then I disagree with the representative Gudmundsen that we should red tape and measure this on all bows and edges. This can be done. I trust that the teachers will solve this in a good way, and one hour of physical activity every day is good for students' health and for students' learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4496	This debate is a reprisal of the debate we had as late as 19 June this year on a similar proposal from the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the MDG. The difference is that reason is going to prevail today. One hour's physical activity is adopted, and it's time. Right, the Progress Party and the Left continue to brake, but the election meant that the three parties no longer have enough muscles for more postponements. The last time I said that the debate was very similar to the one we had locally in the Drama. In the fall of 2013, the Drammen organized sports council inspection for the Trudvang school in Sogndal, which was all about one hour of physical activity. In spring 2014, Drammen Arbeiderparti proposed the same, but was downhearted, among others. by the Right and Advance Party. The counter-arguments were that there are limits to what the school is going to fix. The parents have the primary responsibility, however, for they have put the children into the world. The resistance did not last long. To that is the arguments too good. It is about early action, public health, integration, prevention of social differences in physical and mental health and about a better learning environment. It's about laying a foundation for lifelong motion joy. So already in the same harvest, Drammen decided unanimously to introduce one hour of physical activity from the school year 2015-2016 – as the first major city in the country. In the spring of 2015, many schools were already running pilot projects. It went fast, because it was good partners to play on. Several sports teams contribute – at Konnerud in cooperation with the schools in the urban district on the project ‘Av Jugend für Jugend’. Three kindergartens split up into a position as coordinator of the activities, which goes under the direction of the sports team. The youth school is with activity managers. The Ball Club of the Drama has had sports leisure arrangements for many years. The Tourist Association is present, the City Mission is present and the Åssida Sports Association is present, with ‘Activities at Åssia’. Buskered sports circles train young activity leaders, have competence in ‘Active community’, based on the further development of a well-tested model from Canada, the goal of which is ‘physical literacy’ for all 12-year-olds in a combination of active sports and mobility. And this doesn't just happen in the drama. Sylling school in Lier was first. The principal took the matter into his own hands within the budget he had. In the smoke, the sport team has ROS's model. The sports club's got its own. Things are happening on Kongsberg and in Ringerijk. The models exist. It's just putting them into practice. Some teachers are skeptical. They shouldn't be. The activities must be managed by competent persons. It may be a qualified youth, as at Konnerud. At first, there will be greater challenges in high school than in high school. Gradually, young people will have this with them from an early age. The teacher's premium is getting students who are more obvious and learn better. The contribution for young people will be better health, mastery and mobility – and better learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4512	Yesterday I visited Kvernevik School in Stavanger. There I got to follow the health sister and the environmental therapist in a group of 14 from 7th grade. I was there to look at the work the school is doing to prevent bullying. After the meeting, the students were allowed to tell me something about what they thought I should do at Stortinget. The first boy to raise his hand said, "I want more pool." The other said: I want to play American football and learn about other international sports. I don't think it's random that these guys just mentioned this. Because I'm very sure what they all, most students want. The background that I was in Stavanger was that the PIRLS numbers were presented. They show happy results. Half of our fifth-graders perform over the middle level of reading. But what we see is that we have great gender differences, and that the boys are about. six months after the girls in reading. Why has it become like this? SV has always stood firm in the view that we must have a much more varied teaching, among other things. and that students need to move more from a public health perspective, we all agree. Therefore, physical activity is one of the five pillars of SV's future school. As it turned out in this case, our primary position is that students in school should be guaranteed one hour of physical activity every day. This can be done by the municipalities and schools exploiting the space for action by organising the school day in a way that gives students more physical activity. Nevertheless, we need to stress the need to allocate more resources to schools, so that increased time for physical activity is prioritised without the need to go beyond other important tasks that the schools are required to solve. Now the bulk of the population – it looks like at least – agree on the goal. Then I expect the government to follow up and take responsibility for the schools to implement this. In its follow-up, the government must have a good dialogue with the teachers and present a well-worked case, and put the necessary resources on the table to ensure that this can be done in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4527	I mean, this is a happy day. I come from Drammen, the city where we're already engaged in one hour of daily physical activity. I'm proud of that. There's always a lot of good coming from the Drama, I've learned. The working party and the undersigned were the ones who proposed this, and after a long fight against the Right-Cycle in the Drammen, we had a unanimous decision. It started three years ago, as the representative Christoffersen mentioned, when the sport invited Trudvang to school in Sogndal, which is a municipality of the past in the work of daily physical activity. There's someone who says there's no research. That's not right. At Trudvang school, it turned out that children with daily physical activity increased their average form considerably, and those who were initially in the worst form had the greatest progress. This shows that the measure reached the children who needed it the most. These children are now left with increased learning outcomes and a reduced risk of a wide range of serious lifestyle diseases. The government’s own range of sports policy even concluded with the importance of investing in one hour’s daily physical activity. You have to ask yourself what makes government councils not listen to health organizations, the Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute and their own selection. One hour of daily physical activity contributes to both better public health and better learning. Yeah, it's a healthy cheek egg. The road to the decision in Drammen City Council was also not easy. Also there was the Right brake block. Let me quote some right-wing representatives, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen and Tove Paule, who said that the children are primarily the responsibility of their parents, for "it is, however, those who have put the children into the world", and that it is only to open the doors and get the children out, as their parents did with them. Yes, then – I don't think there is a need for any further comments. In school, we meet all children regardless of background. We know that health and school outcomes among children and young people depend on the background of parents. It shouldn't be like that in 2018. Here we have the opportunity to contribute to better public health, but also better learning environment, and when we know it benefits, we have to implement – 'just do it' is what it is called. To achieve a good process where this is to be carried out – and we have experience in the Drammen – it is important to fill in skills and ensure the good participation of employees. It's important to understand the teachers and the principals – we're going to do this together. We have the same goal. Together, we can ensure that Norway takes the lead in ensuring better learning and public health, and we should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4540	Some have tried to reduce this debate to whether you are for or against physical activity in school. That is not what the debate is about, because we are all for that. But this proposal is a record bomb. When it is decided that 60 minutes of a school day must be physical activity within today's hours, the math, natural sciences and the arts and crafts teacher is also assigned a particular method in the teaching system. It could be a method they don't have the prerequisites for using. It may be a method that they feel is wrong to use for their students and contrary to their professional judgement, and it may be a method that those who professional practitioners do not consider to be able to combine with the other competences that politicians have said is important. This could be done, for example, by: is that a 9A math teacher seems to be demanding to use a math bus to teach students how to solve quadratic equations. It is very good that many schools, teachers and municipalities use physical activity in teaching. The right is concerned with spreading the good example to more people, and we therefore provide municipalities and schools with considerable resources and space for action to try out different ways to improve the quality of the school. In a good way, physical activity can help students learn more, but – and it is an important ‘but’ – without sufficient competence of teachers, commitment and local adaptations, such a strict and rigid imposition of physical activity can weaken the professional learning outcomes of the students and contribute to increased bureaucracy for the schools. This is precisely why an important principle in Norwegian school has been that it is not the politicians at Stortinget who adopt method use in the classroom. Good solutions are created from below, but good solutions are not always translated into good national decisions. Many teachers use, for example: digital teaching materials well in teaching, but we are not here today to discuss in 60 minutes of math, Norwegian and English education with digital tools. Let's let the teachers and the schools assess that. This proposal should not be dealt with in the Health and Welfare Committee. The school is not an arena where politicians have to push everything they think is important. In the professional community of each school, teachers and school leaders are working to make professionally good teaching arrangements. We don't have that competence sitting here in the hall. It should have been a thought for the bulk of the population that the teacher's profession, the School Manager's Association and the KS respond. I understand that they do. We are in the process of a major innovation in which all parties in this room have agreed to slim down national curricula and facilitate more in-depth learning. Then it's not this time for politicians on the Stortinget to adopt even more things that are going into a scarce lesson, and just tell the teachers that they have to fix this. It is a great paradox that the parties that want a little vague reform of trust in school are the same parties that today oblige teachers to use one method of teaching. There's a long way between word and action, and that's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4551	We are all too much more physical activity and better public health, and we agree that the effort must be put in early. That is why the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, among other things, mourn. that all children, irrespective of the income of their parents, may take part in a leisure activity. That's why the right is a hot follower of more physical activity in school. We promote good local initiatives and get more and more experiences from which we listen and learn. We carry out a large research project, and when the report is ready in 2019, we will have an even better basis to expand the course further. Today, the majority ignore the research project and make an hasty decision. They impose a specific method on teachers and take time from the students' vocational education. The need for labelling and to appear to have gone ahead of the student's best course of action. Instead of finding good solutions that motivate students and teachers to more physical activity, we are at risk of ending up with a bureaucratic over-management of the teacher's professional responsibilities, and not knowing what consequences it will have for the learner's learning. The representative Fagerås mentioned that she was visiting Stavanger. It was a pity she didn't want to go for a walk into the Tastaveden School, which has introduced more physical activity in everyday life. I asked the school staff for the recipe for success, and the answer was clear: local drive, local initiative, a desire from committed teachers and school leaders locally, based on the school's assumptions. They were strongly critical of the state coercion majority now in place, and they are not the only ones. The Association of School Leaders, the Association of Education, the Norwegian Lektor team, the professionals to do this, is opposed. Lots of people who usually like to talk about professional trust now put the professionals at the wall, with the stopwatch in their hands. In the newspaper Gahr Støre claimed that to disagree with the majority's proposal was ideologically insistent and old-fashioned school thinking. Well, it's a little bit of a label to give thousands of competent teachers who have put up a good teaching for their students, but with a different method. The right is for more physical activity in school, but we have to do it wisely, with caution, with the teachers on the team, and that has to be based on knowledge – not through state detail management in Norwegian classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4566	Several representatives of the right here say they're waiting for knowledge of physical activity to work. It's almost not to believe. I think everyone who doesn't sit in this room understands that if people move, they get fresher. If people move, they learn more. I haven't had my own children yet, but I'm the uncle of eight, and I know that when those kids have been sitting completely still for an hour, they become unfocused. They're struggling to learn. We know that physical activity works. It works for health, and it works for learning, but I have to specifically lift health, because we in this room sometimes talk about planning far ahead of time. We are making decisions today to secure Norway for the future. We get an ageing population. We're getting a lot of pressure on our specialist health services. We have to take action to prevent problems before they happen. This measure is precisely doing so. It helps secure Norway for the future. It's especially, as I said before, to hear the Right Representatives go up here one by one and say in their party speeches that they're so much for physical activity in school, while they're against any suggestion that can give physical activity in school. He now pointed out that he wanted local action. Then it was referred to the Drama, where it's right locally saying no to physical activity in school. This is problematic. We know that physical activity works. But if the Right agrees that physical activity is good, and that it should preferably not take place within today's hours, the Right can help support SV and work to increase the number of hours and get more teachers in. That's the SV's primary position. If the Right wants to turn around and support this, SV is ready with open arms to agree to a majority to expand the hour by one hour of physical activity every day. Right is repeatedly talking about time thieves, so let me ask you one more time, because they haven't answered yet. SV will cooperate with Right here as well, if they actually mean serious. Will Right support SV's proposal to cut the amount of competence targets? Will the Right support our proposals to cut target management, cut unnecessary testing, and not least hire more teachers and stop the separation of teachers, so that we have enough teachers to employ? In the first grade of my local school at Tårnåsen, there are 27 little six - year - olds on one teacher. Then it's hard to make the school physical and practical. Teachers say they want a more physical and practical school, but the school owners do not provide the resources needed to make it possible. This proposal will force the school owners and municipalities in place. Therefore, SV is aware that we primarily want more resources into the school, but the best thing cannot be the enemy of the good. Now we look forward to the proposal of the government, so that this can be done in a good way – in cooperation with the teachers and preferably in cooperation with the review of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4579	There is no doubt that there are good intentions behind the matter we are dealing with here today. It's just so sad that good intentions don't always lead to good decisions, especially if you don't have the ability to weigh different considerations against each other and make sure that the proposals are well figured out before you decide. It's strange to hear that the same parties that have school politicians talking about the overrule of teachers now have health politicians who want to have a system that is directly in conflict with teachers' responsibilities. SV wants e.g. a reform of trust in the school and states that it is the responsibility of politicians to facilitate a greater professional space for action and discretion for teachers. That is a good goal, but precisely what this proposal does not contribute to. The Workers' Party has stated that they need to stress the freedom of method of teachers and implement a trust reform. This proposal contributes to the very opposite. Representatives from the parties who want to impose this on schools and teachers say it's not a override, because teachers have the freedom to decide how to implement it. But they can't pick it away. It's totally illogical, and I have trouble believing that they don't see this for themselves. The Education Association, the School Leaders' Association and the Norwegian Lectors' Team are also frustrated and say directly that this adds to a detailed management of teachers' working methods. I agree with them. And that's what's the main challenge here, not a question of wanting physical activity. I think it is a good principle that the consequences of the desired policy are investigated. It is clearly not for the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter. We have e.g. two ongoing processes that should definitely be completed before we take a decision. In the field of vocational renewal, public health and lifelong learning are one of the three new multi-disciplinary themes to be given priority. In the research project, as we have heard, the main point is precisely to find models of increased physical activity that can improve both health and learning. Now it is correct to ask for a case, but the decision has already locked us into one solution. What if the innovation and the project actually point to better solutions? We have to rely on relevant research. It's much better than single anecdotic stories from schools and a general knowledge that physical activity is actually good. We know that. Physical activity is good, but the consequences for schools, teachers and students are at least equally important. So now you're going to have to meet even more targets within the already blown frame. I think it's time we took seriously that if someone wants to put more into our school, they should tell us what's going to happen at the same time. It's full.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4590	It is well in the rarest units that the Left recommends this hall to listen to Red and the representative Moxnes. I am particularly pleased with Moxnes’ observation that the teacher’s organisations are against this. This is a proposal that is and becomes a coercion, and coercive jerseys rarely associate with physical activity. Although the intentions of this proposal are good, it should be taken seriously that teachers experience this as a restriction of their professional judgement and educational freedom. Today I just heard how this might turn out unfortunate. There are many schools that have a good location in nature, and use it a lot throughout the school year. Siggerud school in Ski municipality is such an example, where cultural memories are close, which is actively used in teaching. Sometimes the goal lies one hour's walk away, to a Milorg cabin or an old housekeeper's place. The children are active for several hours and have been in several subjects throughout the day, perhaps both history, math and natural sciences. They now fear that a requirement for one hour of physical activity every day puts an end to this flexibility. They think it's optimal to be out for a whole day or a half and maybe have more sedentary activity another day. We continue to believe that more physical activity in more subjects than body training, and more mental training in school – as left has ensured for adoption in June – is a far better proposal than what is adopted here today, as the teachers themselves experience as a detailed management of their everyday lives. Then I want to link a couple of comments to the cost of this. We have heard that the Center Party and SV here say that this proposal will cost money. So Christian People's Party says they've been investigated by the department that this won't cost money from 1 to 4. step, it was said – I think it's from 1 to 10. step, if I am not mistaken. But this is an expression of a non-holy alliance, and I can imagine hearing the thoughts of the Christian People's Party about how this is connected, how it's possible to say yes to both the proposals of the Central Party and the SV, and at the same time lean on and say that this is not going to cost anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4601	It's good that you don't doubt that the intentions are good from the majority, and you probably don't have to doubt that the vision is bigger. The possibility of lifting physical health is also about the possibility of lifting mental health, which in turn is about the possibility of raising learning in the other subjects. We're also going to assume that not all students like the traditional exercise class. Through this proposal, we give the possibility of a greater breadth of physical activity, which in turn can lead to more people experiencing positive effects related to being active in school, and hopefully also contribute to the fact that the level of activity does not fall, as we have seen from the age of nine, until they are 15 years old. But I also think we should be honest that in this work there are some challenges to how we're going to solve it. When something goes into it without one being clear that something is going on, yes, then it might be wise what the majority has voted for, namely to ask for a case so that the conclusions that are not now drawn can be drawn in a good way, but at the same time there are some clear visions and some clear objectives of where you want to go. It is important that teachers are taken seriously, it is important that we get an enthusiasm for this proposal. It's about the actual day-to-day school. But then the Labour Party in its alternative state budget has shown that it is willing to spend more money on the table to get this done in a good way. We take seriously what we get – including from teachers’ organisations. When Bent Höie and others stumble on the majority and talk about the danger that there will be a conflict case in Norwegian school, I would remind Höie and others that the minority's position challenges the same extent of how to use today's frame metal. Then came Sveinung Stensland and Höie's party traps with a proposal, which they have now drawn, at 5 p.m. Twenty-two in the evening. I still do not know whether the Left has also drawn its support for the alternative proposal of the Committee, or what the Progress Party is doing. But I have taken that proposal seriously, at least now until noon. 22 and I have concluded that it could not have been so bad if it was completely okay until noon. 22nd@item: inlistbox The fact that it was a compromise proposal is fine, but the committee's position was clear before giving it up. It was then known that the majority did not lie there, in any case. Then it's a little alarming when the Right's representatives are now hammering at how bad this is, because in practice they've been hammering off the same proposal that they've been up to until noon. 22, however, with a slightly different device. Both parts say that you want to solve this within today's frame metal, but in two different ways. The visions of the majority stand. The proposal for a majority stands by. What the proposal for the minority now might be seems a little bit unclear between the three parties behind it in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4618	Right Kent Gudmundsen said from the pulpit that ensuring an hour of physical activity in school means that you have to legislate and that it becomes more bureaucratic. My experience is that Norwegian school is loyal to the control signal and will follow it up. Learning is closely linked to well-being. Well-being increases with variation, and learning increases with different methods. Some students are auditory strong, some are visually strong, and some are stronger if they get to use their physical and body to learn. As a teacher, I have experienced that varied teaching methods with the possibility of moving physically provide better learning outcomes. It works in a normal class situation, but perhaps even more related to special education. In this area, we need to think in every possible way to improve the special education we have at school. Concentration increases, motivation increases, and learning outcomes improve. This is a good decision for the students at Havøysund School, where I work – and for all other students at school. Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde says that the proposal for one hour's physical activity is a record bomb. She's wrong. Most teachers know for themselves that hours should be more varied. This is going to trigger more variation, it's going to trigger more creativity in teaching, and it's going to be good for the individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4629	This is a good day for the effective, targeted public health policy and a good day for the school too, I would say. I heard representatives from the Right – I think it was Tybring-Gjedde and another Right-Representative, at least Tybring-Gjedde – describe this as a record bomb. Well, then there's a lot of skilled and committed teachers you take with you in that characteristic. I also heard a Right-Representative say that this was based on anecdotal stories about single schools. I also experience that as a rather discouraging tone to dedicated teachers who are involved in developing their work to achieve better learning for the students for whom they are responsible. And where are these right-wing representatives so understanding that the proposal binds teachers to one method and overrides the teachers' own task in school? At least it cannot be in this setting. In the North Trøndelag, where I come from, at least eight schools are going on. Through a pilot project, they have been carrying on one hour of physical activity each day since 2014. One hour of physical activity in school is actually a campaign case, both for the Norwegian Physiotherapist Federation, for the Kreftforeningen, for the Legeforeningen, for the Norwegian Sports Association and for the National Association for Public Health. And even though the Federation of Education is skeptical that the school should solve all societal challenges – and I understand that very well – many of the models that have been developed are developed by dedicated members of the Education Association. The methodology is practice-based from day one. In the Nord-Trøndelag, the pilot project is led by a working group consisting of school owners, the sports community, the North University of Teacher Training, and physiotherapists. More than 270 proposals for activities have been developed, and that is full freedom of method. There are offers of courses and skills enhancement, and there are many tools you can choose from. When so many are already in the process, it is important for the Workers' Party that all children are given this opportunity, that the school does not reinforce differences in health and ill health, but promises and provides opportunities for everyone, and that adds up to this setting. Then it's the government's job to get back to Stortinget with a quality-assured proposal on how this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4644	I'm recording that I'm now about to be in trouble at today's meeting, and I'm sorry, but there's a very engaging debate and good opinion breakups here. I hear that representatives believe that the wrong committee has examined the proposal, but then I just have to ask: should it have been noted during the examination of the Minutes and the proposal from the Presidency? And a similar proposal, which was promoted in ours, was examined by the same committee. So I hope, then, that the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party do not want to anchor the discussion in the Education and Research Committee when proposals they disagree with, get a majority – because that did not necessarily make the proposal in ours, so that's fine. I have also registered the criticism from several teacher organisations with a claim that the proposal involves over-management of teachers. At the same time, I have also registered and received messages from many teachers expressing support and enthusiasm for the proposal, pointing out that the decision is important for prioritising physical activity in the school. The centre party is fully in line with the teachers in the fight against detail management and overrun of their professional judgement. That is why we have not proposed in detail how this should be implemented. There are many examples from schools that have already organized the school day for several years, so that students have just one hour of physical activity daily. They're doing that in today's trade and hour distribution, and I have to point out that the freedom of method is, of course, the freedom to choose a method. I myself am a professor in real science from NMBU in Ås. There, practice and research show that outpatient schools and the elements of physical activity in education, which provide short breaks from still education, are successful. This is educationally anchored and is linked in Ås with UBU — education for sustainable development. There are many schools that today use methods and physically activate the students even outside of the physical exercise profession, and there are many solutions. In the case of the school’s technical needs, it is important to facilitate the development of physical activity for students already as part of the school’s mandate. The Central Party also agrees that it is a trade-union. That's exactly why we don't introduce physical activity as a new subject at the top of everything else, but believe that this should be solved within today's organization of education and school day.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4658	This is a party day. This decision has been worked for too long by the Workers' Party. It gives both better health and better learning, and that's why it's absolutely right to do it. I think the Health Minister actually revealed himself in the post, when he called students patients. That's exactly what can happen if you don't do something. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinge today is showing action and implementing. It has been interesting to hear the right parties in this debate. One is kind of for activity, but won't do anything. One is concerned about obesity and passivity, but the complete paralysis of action. One has a small attempt that one refers to, and will wait and see. You ask me, this sounds like a real conservative party that's against everything that's new. The Right and Advance Party then believe that the Health and Care Committee was the wrong committee to deal with this matter. With this debate, one can just say that the outcome would be the same. The same parties would be brave, and fortunately, the same parties would be for. I also want to reject the claim that this will be an over-control of the teachers. Of course, teachers and schools must have full freedom of method. With this proposal, different schools will follow different models, to which several have referred. In addition – if our budget had been given a majority, it would also have been accompanied by more funds for the proposal and more teachers, yes, a whole thousand in the number. So this is a party day. This is a proposal that can be made. We must now ensure a wise introduction of the proposal that refers to the confidence of teachers. And once again -- the most important thing is that we do something, that we don't wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4673	There has been a lot to address in this debate. What I want to get hold of first is Tvedt Solberg, who's up here calling this a party day. It is a little strange to record at the same time that you point out that there is a case coming back to Stortinget, and you do not have all the details ready. Well, it's actually like no one who's been up on this pulpit has suggested that you're against physical activity. What we've been talking about here is how best to do this. I feel that very few really problematize what is deep in this matter. It is a fact that the Right is for, the Advance Party is for – all the parties that are in this Chamber are for this. We have actively addressed this in the government. We have it in the government platform. We've now spent 6 million dollars. kr and started this research project. I have to comment on the representative Wilkinson. He seems to have misunderstood. And then I can understand to that extent why one would not wait for this research report. It is not that the research report shows whether or not physical activity is good for high school students, but it shows how physical activity can be carried out and how it turns out in school education. We don't have that knowledge. It's a bit of a challenge here today. One might, for example: think of math in the 10th grade. Is there anyone who's got the math exercise there? And think of Båtsfjord in January. Schools in both Båtsfjord and elsewhere with outdoor challenges may feel that having physical activity on a particular day can become a bit demanding – especially when solving third-degree equations or other challenging calculations. It seems that the professional question – what the school is primarily about, and on which it is incredibly important for us to achieve good results – has not been adequately highlighted in this case. I think that is very worrying. In fact, this government has been very concerned about ensuring the professional profession and the relationship between the decisions we make in school policy and the efforts we make in terms of content and teachers. That's why we've invested in the master's training for the teachers. That's why we've reduced this sample of time thieves, which went through and actually reduced school reporting and demands. That's why we've been involved in ensuring that we get a professional renewal that reduces the number of curriculum objectives, which has just been proven in high school to be the most demanding – to ensure quality, to ensure the content of the school and to listen to the teaching profession and to give them the space for action that enables us to achieve the goals we've set ourselves to create a better school. Then I find it disappointing that today we are asking for a fuse of one hour's physical activity. For those who know how to secure something in the political and administrative world, it is actually through regulation and reporting. It means more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4686	As a new representative, I have had the pleasure of reading up on old comments, and I thought I would read up two for you: ‘The majority of the Committee emphasises the freedom of schools to organise their own everyday school and educational activities and to adapt them to local needs and conditions.’ [[...]] The same parties have also written a note that they want to re-enter the professional teacher's role and increase the professional space for action. It is the same parties that today want to impose on teachers a certain use of methods in their teaching, even if it may be contrary to their professional judgement, and even if it may be contrary to the academic outcomes of their students. Public health is one of three multi-disciplinary themes that all children need to learn about, but detailed management of how to do it affects the motivation and professional integrity of teachers. I notice that the representative Knutsdatter Strand says that she has full confidence that the teachers can do this in a good way. It's very easy to trust someone when you tell someone to do something. I hope, for the sake of the teachers, that it is not this majority party that tends to include in the slogan ‘Trust Reform’. I want to remind the opposition that the teachers are professionals. They're in the classroom every single day, they're sitting on Sunday night and planning class 6A teaching arrangements in math, they've got students struggling with numerical understanding, they've got students who don't have the broken reading code, and they've got students who've just come to the country. They use different pedagogical methods to lift all these students and make sure they learn the subject. Then it is quite amazing that the representative Wilkinson claims that the alternative to detailed management by the politicians in this Chamber today is that the teachers let the students sit quietly on a chair in front of the board for six hours. It is to show a very strong distrust of the teachers in Norwegian school and how they meet the students' all-round needs. It also shows a very strong belief in the excellence and ability of politicians to manage detail. It is also a contradiction to what we politicians have signaled to School-Norway, namely that we want to clear the timetable and dry to prioritize what is most important. We will create a framework around the school and provide teachers with the tools they need to plan education on a professional basis. To the representative of Kjerkol I would like to say: it is not a record bomb of the school and the teachers to succeed in using physical activity in teaching. That's very good, and we cheer for good local solutions. But the characteristics of these schools are just local commitment, teacher competence and local customization. There are three factors that you do not automatically get by adopting something on the Stortinget. Finally, I want physical activity in school, but I don't want it to be at the expense of the students' learning or the teachers' professional judgement, and unfortunately you do that today if you're going to impose a certain teaching method on the teachers in the classroom. It's unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4716	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4721	The representative Tybring-Gjedde told me from the pulpit what I should have said from the pulpit – I don't think that's a good idea. I have never said that teachers want the students to sit still. I said the opposite. I told you about my local primary school, where there are 27 first-class students, in a Right-steered municipality. It's the framework around that makes it impossible for teachers to have physical activity in school. Keeping track of 27 six-year-olds is hard. The problem here is the school owners who don't give the resources, and the school owners in this municipality are right. So I think it's important to talk about this with regulation. Kent Gudmundsen claimed that this must be regulated. There is no one in this room who has talked about a particular regulation of the law – other than the Right. We ask for a case to see how this can be organized. That is how we organise ourselves in Norway with the distinction between government and big business. So this is saying that everyone is for physical activity. Well, it's easy to say that you're for something in party speeches. The question is what to do when the decision comes. The right is now going to vote against any suggestion of physical activity in school. SV is going to vote in favour – and repeat our desire to keep it up with resources and extended hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4730	I felt the need to answer some of the questions that have come. I'm a little unsure whether we've formulated ourselves a little bit unclear, so I'd like to answer some questions. Questions were asked whether the Right still supports the goal of having at least one hour of physical activity every day. Well, we do it, but not necessarily at school, and at least not in such a rigid order as we've been talking about here today. It's not just right-wing representatives who think this is taking away from teachers a responsibilities of methodology. It does as mentioned also the KS, the Education Association, the School Managers' Association and the Norsk Lektorlag. I think they represent the teachers well in this matter. It is quite okay that single teachers are very satisfied, and I am very happy that many schools and municipalities have found good solutions to this. However, as the representative Mr Stokkebø was in the Chamber, it is entirely dependent on the fact that this is just getting out of local initiative – at least not within the rigid framework set out here. There are several people who talk about the opposite of this is that little kids have to sit still for six hours. I don't know if they have children in school or have been to a school and seen children there, but little children don't sit quietly for six hours today. In fact, the teachers are quite competent to vary the teaching. And to achieve this hour, as Kjersti Top of the Center Party talked about here, you can take 25 minutes of a free minute. So then this is really a very simple thing, because then you can take the rest of the spare minutes and put in, and then you're -- vips -- up for one hour. But that's not the goal of getting more physical activity into school. That's why we're waiting for knowledge. We're not waiting for knowledge that physical activity is good, we know that, but we're waiting for knowledge about how this can best be implemented in school. We're waiting for knowledge to tell us how to make this work. The decision you want to make here today lays a firm framework, and then it is not possible – as I see it – to find a better solution later. We're not the paralytic, but we want to make our decisions based on knowledge-based investigations. And yes, we're conservative, but we're changing to preserve. We don't want everything the way it is today. The SV's representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has invited several times for cooperation. I can send the invitation in return: SV is cordially welcome to join the Right Policy. We've done a lot to find a better framework for physical activity in school. It's about innovation, it's about the ongoing research effort, and it'll give us good answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4741	Many say that this is not about one being for or against physical activity in school. No, it doesn't, but it's about someone being against everybody. It's about someone having to pass on these inequalities and not apply to all children in all schools, but that one should be dependent on going to a school where there is a local fireplace and a local initiative. At Trudvangen School, it turns out that it is lifting those who have already been in the worst physical form. This is about preventing social health differences. It is shown that we need more knowledge and that we need to wait for this project to be completed. I took a look at the action plan for physical activity that the previous Minister of Health from Right, Gabrielsen, had in 2004. They set up a research project, a model experiment in the school, to increase physical activity and meal in the school. It was an attempt at 200 schools. They spent $6 million. kr. Now many years have passed, and still right in the same place. For how many years will Right have a project about physical activity in the school before they really do? I mean, right never got involved properly to use the school as a pre-convention arena. They've always said that this is parental responsibility. They've never taken seriously that we have social health differences, and they've always refused to stand up because the school also has a social responsibility. There is a debt that our proposal is not serious because it uses the phrase'safe'. But seriously, how many proposals will not be made here with exactly that wording? That's a normal way to do it. We ask for a case back again. We also show in the proposal how other schools and trials do this with a small extension of the school day. Yes, by organizing free minutes of work and putting some physical activity into them, and by shortening the time in some subjects, you can add this together. If this requires law or regulation, the Minister of Health shall have problems with many other proposals which are excellent and written in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4750	The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4755	The representative of Morland called for the Left's position on this matter. We are going to stand by this compromise proposal. So I'm not going to comment on the Right Drawing from there. I think, like the Central Party, SV and now the Workers' Party, that this proposal is going to cost money. In any case, someone believes that it should cost money – body training is a trade. School planning will cost you money. Continuing training will cost money. I simply do not understand the department's assessment in this matter. The representative Wilkinson said that the best must not be the enemy of the good. I think that's what it's going to be, and I should like to hear the Minister of Education here today to explain the cost aspects of the proposal of the Central Party. It clearly shows that this debate is based on the wrong committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4762	The undersigned received a question from the representative of the Left on cost. The Christian People's Party asked in the budgetary process, in the usual way, to obtain cost estimates from the government and received a response on a scheme that ensures students from first to tenth class steps at least one hour of physical activity each day within today's frame metal. The answer was – it came from the Ministry of Knowledge: it will not lead to increased costs, zero in proceeds. That's the answer we got. That's why the Christian People's Party didn't give priority to spending money, because that was the question, and that was the answer we got. If we had received another answer, we would have put in money and fought for it in the negotiations. Now we're going to get a case back to Stortinget. The Left, Right and Advance Party have also proposed to get a case back to Stortinget – i.e. until tonight, not all of the lots are behind. For the only difference is that there should be an average of one hour of physical activity each day. The Education Association experienced the position as problematic as the proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. The two proposals were available until tonight. There are many research reports that point to a link between activity and health. They are not few, the reports and research reports available. So the question is, are we going to use them to give our kids the best basis for health and good public health in the future? The earlier we do, the more we get back in public health. It has been the foundation of the Christian People's Party. We are excited to get the matter back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4772	The representative Turid Kristensen from the Right had noticed our forthcoming proposal for a trust reform in school, a reform that will give teachers greater room for action. So good that the right had noticed this, because we'll give the teacher more time, more time to be a teacher. We want less target management, we want less testing, we want less reporting, and we want more teachers in school. That's what Norwegian school needs now. These are suggestions I know that Norwegian teachers appreciate them. Will the Right Join Them? I noticed a somewhat amazing matter. The right is only occupied by minor classrooms for teachers when it comes to physical activity. I'm guessing they're not going to support any of our proposals in the trust reform. Because we have concrete suggestions on how to give the teacher greater scope for action. But what we are doing today is that the Storting should decide – just as we have adopted basic skills in reading, writing and accounting, which are to permeate all subjects – that physical activity should be a priority part of the school day. I think it's worth celebrating, President, and it's almost so I want to invite you to dance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4781	It'll wait for another time. It's not that polite on Stortinget. [[Laughter]] On the other hand, I will give the word to Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde – it also tends to be pleasant – but this time only for a brief comment, as the representative has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4788	I have a concrete input into SV's trust reform, and it is not to vote for this imposed, which the teachers themselves do not want. But what I first wanted to do was to answer the objections that if you don't vote for this proposal, you're paralysed. Now that we have a major research project in 29 secondary schools – a historical research project that has never been carried out before – it is not a paralysis of action. When public health is one of the three multi-disciplinary themes to be integrated into curricula, it is not a paralysis of action. When we have introduced a new model of skills development in schools, where municipalities and schools have resources and space for action to try out different measures, it is not a paralysis of action. I have to say that I'm a little worried about this great period if the action force of the majority parties here today is about imposing on teachers and schools to do even more in the scarce teaching time they have, because I know that there's nothing School Norway wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4797	Physical activity is good for young people, young people, young people, adults and older people alike. Many of us have the knowledge we need to know that it works. It's good for our children's health, it gives more uplifted kids and increases the exchange of learning in school. It's demanding to be both parents and teachers. As parents, we spend a lot of time in a phase of life teaching our kids to sit still. At one point we were so close that the challenge is to get them to be active and moving. The sphere is such an important part of the everyday life of our children that he must be part of the solution. This has been an interesting day for me. For several hours, government party figures have argued strongly for a regional reform they are opposed to. Now they argue at least as strongly against introducing something for which they are: increasing physical activity in the school. The words about raising your eyes, looking forward, seeing possibilities and not problems, being forward-looking, etc., put a lot more looser in the matter than in this case they are for. This is not so easy to understand. But if Right has a magic form for how to increase physical activity in the school without spending more time on it, it would of course be interesting to know how it could happen. As far as I can understand, there's no more physical activity in the school without spending more time on physical activity in the school. All the schools that have been boasted by representatives in this room, including from their Right, have done just that. They have spent more time on physical activity and achieved good results. Finally, the continuation here is going to be very interesting. Hopefully, during this ageing period, the Right gets the knowledge they need to implement what they have as their policy, simply increasing physical activity in school. Then it'll be interesting. If the Right will, yes, they will also have to want the means, that there will be more time, and then it will be interesting to see how it will be implemented in the light of the arguments that have been put forward today against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4810	The representative Turid Kristensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4815	There is no reason to doubt that the Right wants more physical activity in school and to facilitate more physical activity for the general population. I do not know why the project that was started in 2004 did not lead to anything – unfortunately I was not a representative then and I do not know about it. But I would point out that it was also not introduced in the years 2005-2009, when the Senterpartiet, Toppe's own party, was in government. I guess there's a reason it didn't come forward, but we're trying again, because we want this. The only difference between the compromise proposal is not the words ‘justify’ in relation to ‘guarantor’. It is also necessary to 'cut-off', because we want more freedom of choice and more freedom of method. To SV: What has been discussed in this matter is precisely the responsibilities of methodology, not the other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4824	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4829	I have to thank the parties that make us get multiples today. I thought that was very, very fun. So to this with money, that someone's been problematizing. It was the department that said on a budget question that this didn't cost money. But we in the Center Party used common sense. We say this will cost money. We should also be clear about that to the teachers, who might think that we should now introduce something without being honest about the cost of it. Höie himself describes in the answer that the schools have great freedom today. It is also clear that this is what we need to build on without introducing a full-day school – but thank you for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4838	I just have to comment on this. Repeatedly, representatives have referred to a question that was asked to the Ministry about the costs. What was not contained in that question, which is added to the comments, as it is now available, is time for planning and planning and to have teachers with special competence in this regard. It was not included in the question that was sent to the department. So here we talk about apples and pears. It is clear that this will entail a cost, which we will see when the matter is submitted. So to the representative Toppe, who previously tried to create a constructed distinction between the representatives who wanted physical activity for everyone, and those who didn't want it for everyone. I think we're going to put it down, raise ourselves above it, and agree that we all want more activity for the kids in Norwegian school, but we have different approaches to how we're going to do it. In the Right View, it's important that we use knowledge. Now we're doing a research project. It's wise to wait to find out which model is best suited, instead of jumping on a hasty proposal that we don't know the consequences of, and that the teachers, who are the ones to do it, are strongly opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4845	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4861	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4870	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in a perhaps a little demanding matter. For most, hospitals are one of the most visible things we have on our welfare community, and naturally we put similarities between hospitals and security: security to get help on the day it should happen something acute and serious, security to get treatment when we are hit by illness, breaking a leg or need an operation, security that a birth will go well and safe for us and for those who are close to us. That is why the discussions about hospital services and the location of hospitals are also becoming something that everyone has a relationship to, and that everyone has an opinion about. For Norway, a long-distance country, with mountains, fjords, long distances and harsh coastlines, and this, combined with very few people-rich areas, is a challenge both to have many enough hospitals and to have enough professional competence to fill hospitals with the necessary functions. Therefore, the exposure becomes so high that when it comes to building, when it comes to setting up a hospital or changing an existing hospital offer, we do what we can to keep or get new services located near where we live. Of course, residents and employees will be involved when hospitals are on the agenda. It is both desirable and necessary. Because while you can have both political and professional opinions, it is ultimately the ones that are affected, who know best where the shoe prints. As politicians, it is our duty to take people seriously, and especially in hospital issues, it is important that citizens and stakeholders have confidence in the processes that have been and that they trust that decisions are taken on the basis of professionalism. With regard to the decision to build a new hospital for West Finnmark in Hammerfest, it has created a great deal of commitment among residents in and around Alta, precisely because they do not experience such trust in the process that has been carried out. Citizens and local authorities point out that when building a new hospital first, the possibility to explore the hospital structure should also be used based on the current population structure and future needs. We must take the people seriously and make sure that everyone can have confidence in processes and decisions. That was clearly stated by the Advance Party in the election campaign, and we are very clear on that today. And we believe that only a complete and independent investigation will provide the basis for right decisions with the necessary legitimacy. The majority of the committee disagrees with us and instead spends time drawing and detailing the hospital map in West Finland. Of course, the progress party does not disagree with the need to strengthen hospital provision in the context of new services, but we disagree with the premise that this should be used as an argument in order not to carry out the necessary investigations. You don't build a house until you have approved and quality-assured drawings. The proposers behind the proposal we are discussing today refer to the national health and hospital plan and justify the proposal that when conflicting interests make it difficult to agree on what is the best solution, the patient’s consideration is to weigh more heavily. It is therefore necessary to know that the decisions taken can be supported by investigations and analyses of both the social economy and societal impacts. Everyone deserves to be sure that the decisions taken are what serves society the best. That is why the Progress Party, together with the Left, is promoting: ‘The government asks the government to carry out an independent full investigation into the hospital structure in West Finland.’ If the majority of the majority of the majority vote this evening follows the majority proposal of the committee not to adopt an inquiry, I would nevertheless encourage the firm to address the concerns raised in the case. The health undertaking has been given the task of ensuring that the needs of its citizens for good and safe hospital services are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4892	The representative Jan Steinar Engeli Johansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4897	It's a big commitment to our healthcare. And that's the way it must be, because our healthcare means a lot to us. Our common health service is actually part of the core wall in Norway. The Labour Party will make use of the entire country. To do that, people have to have a basic security where they live, work and live their lives. I have great respect and understanding for the popular commitment to hospital structure in West Finland. When we talk about hospitals in Norway, we don't start with blank sheets. Hospitals are located where they are, with different historical reasons. Norwegian health services must ensure that their healthcare and emergency preparedness are close enough and competent. The involvement of politicians, citizens and other actors in Alta clearly demonstrates a frustration that food and emergency preparedness is not being sufficiently experienced. It is shown, among others: that the population of Alta is the highest concentration of inhabitants who have such a distance from their emergency and food supply. At the same time, it is important to point out that many others in Norway have the same length of travel time to hospitals as the all-purposes — or longer. Health Nord estimates this to about 80,000 inhabitants. The majority of these are also not close to a health service of the extent to be developed in Alta. The working party is pleased that this setting shows so clearly that the specialist health service offer in Alta is to be built up. Several services will be set up, and it will be added that the Alta clinic will receive an expanded offer, compared to today. The Alta Clinic will primarily serve patients in the municipalities of Alta, Kautokeino and Loppa, and the clinic is a significant extension of the specialist healthcare service in West Finland: The goal for 2020 is to double the outpatient and day surgery provision compared to today’s level. The current level of medical treatment is continued and increases from 9 to 20 beds for somatic treatment, 6 of which are municipal. MR and CT are established and the number of ultrasound examinations shall be increased. In addition, there is a new offer for more severe drug treatment. Two out of eight drug treatment sites are dedicated to heavier detoxification. When the National Health and Hospital Plan was adopted in 2016, it was established that there should still be a decentralised hospital structure in Norway. The plan also describes the challenges of maintaining stable and competent professional settings in hospitals with few inhabitants in the area of uptake, especially in the field of emergency surgery. And it's just competence that's an important reason to stand firm about building a new hospital in Hammerfest. A new investigation into hospital structure really means investigating the transfer of the hospital from Hammerfest to Alta. The working party has little faith that it is possible to shift an environment of competence to the root. On the contrary, we risk building trade unions over time. The health service may be getting closer, but that doesn't mean it's becoming more competent. There are several plans and investigations which, in total, provide a broad basis for the future development of the Finnish Hospital. The Labour Party believes that our approach to the case ensures a good health provision for the citizens of Alta and in the other relevant areas of Finnmark. The Workers' Party believes that decentralised specialist health services outside hospitals, as in Alta, should be further developed. In addition, we believe that prehospital services should be strengthened and further developed. That the Left Party and the Advance Party choose to meet the matter in the way they do, we wonder. They have had every opportunity to influence the position of the government, the financial framework and the organisation of the offer. A very tight hospital budget has been presented for 2018, a trend that has followed this government since the government change in 2013. What West Finland needs now are calm and politicians who stand by their decisions. Now it is important to see the possibilities in the development of Clinic Alta and services that we know there is a growing need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4931	We are currently considering a proposal to investigate the hospital structure in West Finland, and it has been assessed in several rounds by the Finnish Hospital and Health Nord. The Strategic Development Plan for the Finnish Health Agency was adopted by the Management Board there in 2015. Significant work has been done in this and subsequent investigations, and the municipalities concerned have been involved in this. In total, this provides a solid basis for the future development of hospitals in Finnmark. That's why we don't think there's a need for a new investigation, which we were ready for before the elections in the autumn. In many parts of the country, there are challenges with long distances, low population density and severe weather conditions. All of these challenges have one in large measure in Finnmark. The right has spent a lot of time getting into the situation, and the most striking is apparently poor communication and low trust between the parties. Here, everyone, including the Finnish Hospital, must go on their own. In this case, we have gone further than usual when it comes to adding leadership to the health business. Project Alta Nærsykeshus is now becoming Klinik Alta. The specialist health service in Alta thus gets the same name as Klinik Hammerfest and Klinik Kirkenes. Local management shall be established at Klinik Alta. CT and MR arrive in Alta during 2019, and in this context, an emergency alarm system must be established for neurologists, which allows a patient to start thrombolysis treatment during a stroke in Alta. Health Nord has been given a mandate to set up several institutions for contract specialists, several of which are to be located in Alta. We believe it is natural that new contract specialists cooperate with Klinik Alta. It is essential that the Finnmark Hospital facilitates medical specialists to establish themselves in Alta, and I would like to point out that it must be possible to work between Hammerfest and Alta regardless of where you live and where you work. In the case of an extension of Clinic Alta, it appears to be arduous to mann it exclusively with ambulance specialists. The goal of 2020 is to double the outpatient and day surgery provision compared to today, to continue the current level of medical day care and to increase from 9 to 20 beds in the somatic area. In addition, as mentioned above, we receive a new offer for more severe drug treatment. To the right, it is important that new radiological services in Alta have availability and opening times that meet the needs of the population. We believe that this is neither a professional nor an economic basis for establishing several hospitals in Finnmark and that the Finnish Health Centre will strengthen the offer in Alta through the construction and renovation of 5000 m 2 at Alta Health Centre. It will allow for increased outpatient consultation by 80 pst. compared to today. There will be medical day care and the possibility to increase the number of day surgery by 115 pst. towards 2020. The expanded offer in Alta will include patients who would otherwise have received their treatment in Hammerfest, UNN or elsewhere outside Finnmark. It has been set up for a comprehensive prehospital service in North Norway. In addition to the boat and car ambulance services, two ambulance flights are stationed in Alta and ambulance helicopters in Tromsø. There will also be new life-saving helicopters at Banak that will provide significantly better opportunities for regularity than the current helicopter. The right considers it essential that the ambulance service be adapted to actual needs in the area and provide the necessary security for the population. There is reason to point out that, in order to avoid unnecessary patient transport, healthcare providers need to ensure that patients are transported to hospitals with the right level of treatment without unnecessary detours. This is particularly important in health regions with large distances. There are a little too many stories about unnecessary detours to UNN, and better diagnostics in Alta will also help here. In several meetings with the local population, there has been a dissatisfaction with patient travel. There's clearly a need to look at this. It seems that today's solution is not patient friendly. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have sent me postcards. It obviously makes an impression. I would like to thank the postcard action for several constructive meetings both at Stortinget and in Finnmark. However, I think it is intended to see what is written by some teams, and the hotness that several of my colleagues have received. There is a sad side to this matter, not suitable for anything but creating discontent and division. Good arguments are listened to, but not shenanigans. If I may, I would like to read from the Facebook group We who want hospitals to Alta: Hope you get a short career at Stortinget, and hope you don't boast about it afterwards. You should thank people from Alta for being there and not turn your back on them. You old son of a bitch. You must remember this not to be forgotten. You're a pussy. So this is the greeting of my colleague from Finnmark, who has stood on as just that to ensure the best possible solution for Alta. That's very good for Alta in our setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4958	Section 1 of the Health Act states that the purpose of the specialist health services and health care providers is to provide good and equivalent specialist health services to all those who need it, whenever they need it, regardless of age, gender, housing, economics and ethnic background. The Central Party believes that this important objective must, of course, also apply to people in West Finland. In our Central Party, a representative proposal to the Stortinget to ensure that patients have access to emergency hospitals with trauma function if transport time to the trauma centre is over 45 minutes. This is in line with the professional recommendations. In this proposal, we referred to the study mentioned by the Emergency Committee in NOU 2015:17, where it was emphasised that the risk of dying of trauma is higher in areas of thin population in Norway than in areas of dense population. The selection was concerned that in Norway there has been a simultaneous centralisation of both medical care, ambulance and hospital. The selection showed a 2013 study showing higher incidence of injury and mortality in fatal accidents in Finland compared to similar events in rural and urban areas in Hordaland. So the concern that people experience in Finnmark is addressed and real. So I want to show that maternity care in Norway is already heavily centralised. Every year 400 children are born outside hospitals – in ambulances, in private cars, in taxis or on the bath floor at home. Researchers say that the reason for this is the centralisation of food care in Norway. 40 years ago there were about 160 food establishments in Norway, today there are 45. Now we're going to discuss if we're going to have one more. We know that there is often a long way between home and birth, like for those in Alta, and then we know that the risk of being born before a bed is great. But the worst thing is the insecurity that this creates. A study at the University of Bergen, by among others Hilde Engjom, showed that the risk of death at birth outside of a food establishment is three times higher than in a food establishment. The people of Alta have a good thing. Understandably, they fight for a safe supply of food. Understandably, they want a more decentralised emergency supply and fight for equivalent health services in line with the other people in Norway. But of course, it's not easy, and in the Center Party, we are strongly opposed to setting Hammerfest up against Alta. For this reason, our proposal is as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to expand the provision of specialist health services in Alta with a food department and to provide the necessary emergency services in connection with this. It has to be assumed that a new hospital will be built in Hammerfest and that hospitals in Finnmark will cooperate in a web-world model in order to provide the entire population with an equivalent supply of good quality.’ In the national health and hospital plan, it was considered that each hospital unit must be part of a network that cooperates on patient courses, training of health professionals, staffing and accommodation and ambulatory arrangements. We believe that hospitals in Finland must cooperate and develop in such a network model. Then we think that it is realistic to expand the special health service provision in Alta with a food department, and that it must be provided with the necessary emergency functions associated with it. Our proposal is precise. We don't think it makes much sense to ask for a discharge, because in our opinion it will only come to the same conclusion that the health care provider should do it. I bring this up with our primary proposal, but I would like to inform you here from the Chair that we are going to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Progress Party and the Left in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4976	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e4981	This has been a long and uplifting conflict. The hospital structure in West Finland is already planned, and it has been investigated. In addition, we have received important and good information. I would like to thank you, among others. postcard women, with whom I have had many good meetings, and because I have been allowed to visit Finnmark and see it closely. But now it's important that we get through these processes and forever new investigations, as Toppe says will only give the same answer, so that we can start investing in Health Finnmark and with the development of the clinic in Alta – double outpatient and day surgery services compared to today's level, from 9 to 20 beds for somatic treatment, MR and CT and increased number of ultrasound tests, and new offers for heavier drug treatment. We need to get these investments started – but there are now proposals on the table to postpone it again. Postponing has only one meaning if we actually intend to make a different decision. The alternative is to lay down the entire emergency hospital in Hammerfest to build a whole new emergency hospital in Alta. It's actually the people who create the health system, not the buildings. Laying down and removing an entirely professional environment built up over many decades is a very serious proposal – to then build a completely new occupational environment for emergency services from the bottom. The Finnish Medical Association, the Finnish Trade Union of Finlandmark and the Finnish Association of Nurses, all agree that this is a bad proposal, and that instead we have to start investing – in Hammerfest and in Alta. Health Nord has reviewed the plans and is unambiguous in its conclusion. But I understand that it's bad, I understand that it's hard. People want hospitals close by, and for me who live in the Oslo region, and have half an hour to many hospitals, it's of course a completely different situation. The number of people in Finnmark is hardly a basis for one hospital. But of course we have to have two emergency hospitals, because the distances are so large. It is important to say that the problem here is not that we need more emergency hospitals – for which there is actually no basis. The problem is geography, and we cannot adopt geography, no matter how many investigations left will push through the Storting to postpone investment in Finnmark. Ambulance, ambulance and ambulance helicopters in Finnmark are important. And Finnmark SV and Kirsti Bergstø have been on me from day one to ensure that the investments will get started quickly in Finnmark. The important thing is to ensure that everyone has access to help. And what do we know about Hammerfest and the coastal region of Finnmark? Well, it's quite often not possible to fly out of there. That's quite often it's the only offer they have. In Alta, it is very rare that it is not possible to fly out. that you have the opportunity to fly to Tromsø and get a good health offer there. They don't have that on the coast. This debate has been about some unworthy wrangling, it has been uncertain and in practice, in the proposal put forward by the Progress Party and the Left, threats of ending an entire professional environment. So I'll end up giving some praise. Professionals in both the first-line and second-line services in Finnmark have provided good quality health services to the Finnmark population throughout this long-term debate. There has been cooperation across professionals, both in Alta, in Hammerfest and in the rest of Finnmark. There is a great potential for the development of healthcare in the north, and in particular there is a potential for the rest of Norway to learn from them in the north, who are experts in ambulatory disciplines, and who are able to provide world-class healthcare despite a very demanding geography. The hospitals in the north now need peace and cooperation, so we can start with important investments and developments. That's why it's good that the majority here say no to short-term populism and even more the outsourcing of important investments. The Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Right stand together to bring peace and finally to the start of this important development of the health service in Finnmark – for the benefit of the entire population of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5000	Last week I had the vice-president of Alta from SV in my office. She had mildly spoken a different description of the reality of the situation there than her own staging representative, who had just spoken. It is worth remembering what this word change is not about. It is not that this room should decide where to place a new hospital in West Finland. The time has passed when the Storting threw itself into such a procedure, and well it is. On the other hand, it is a question of providing the best possible care for a population in West Finland. It is a matter of meeting a population in Alta who, in this case, have felt overwhelmed and neglected by their own health region and the ministry. It is about taking due account of the area that is going to be the power centre in West Finland in the foreseeable future. It's about thousands of people going on torch trains. These are people who are afraid that the place in West Finland where most children are born will be without emergency aid. This — in the Norwegian context — vulnerable population should be consulted on the requirement that no stones should be exposed when national health and hospital plans are to be launched. Then it does not help to indicate that Klinik Alta will be established. Nor does it help to indicate that Alta offers should be reinforced. It was just supposed to be missing. On the other hand, it is a population and a municipality that has invested in an investigation by an independent consultant, which clearly concludes, among other things. that a location of an offer in Alta will result in an average travel distance to a hospital for the population of West Finland being reduced by 40 minutes compared to a location in Hammerfest. This is a report that makes a clear recommendation on a further investigation of the hospital service in West Finland. It is a general suspicion that this debate is bordering on the unworthy. I record that the representatives Toppe and Wilkinson have a crystal ball that shows that a further investigation of this will only lead to the same thing. I don't think so. There is no representative from North Norway in the Health and Welfare Committee of the Stortingen. It should have done so, because whoever didn't live in this area of the country can't have such a sense of what distance means for security. Whoever hasn't been stuck in a blizzard across the Sennaland, halfway between Alta and Hammerfest, can't have experienced the feeling of insecurity that's breaking in the car as the fuel arrow approaches zero, there's 20 degrees outside cold and snow powered so close that helicopters and planes have to stay on the ground. I have experienced this, but fortunately I have never had a pregnant woman with me in the car and can only know to what extent such a situation must stand out for a future mother. Transporting a patient from Kautokeino to Hammerfest is like a journey from Oslo west to Kristiansand. That way you pass a hospital in Bærum and the hospitals in Drammen, Tønsberg, Skien and Arendal. This is not just about a distance between cities in Finnmark, it is also about a distance between a decision-making machine and the population of Alta, and about abduction. This room must take on the fact that the feeling of discouragement and of not being heard in a mildest trifling question that an investigation is cannot persist. An investigation is what the people of Alta and Left want, and that's what we're asking the Storting to join. The big community, for which Stortinget is a synonym, has made mistakes in Alta before – a mistake that I believe a subsequent Prime Minister has acknowledged. Let's not make such a loss again. Now we need to calm down this decision. It clearly shows the quotation that the representative of Stensland just read here. There are unworthy conditions in Finnmark now – in West Finland and in Alta. There's coming the sheiks, there's coming hopeless comments. It must be brought to an end, and the representative of Stensland can contribute by voting in favour of the Left's proposal. I would like to welcome Stortinget to do the same. I'll bring this up on the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5021	The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5027	There has been an incredible amount of unrest around the hospital discussion in West Finland. As long as the hospital has been in Hammerfest, there has been a discussion about whether it was the right place. The hospital in Hammerfest was built in 1956. Today it appears to be old - fashioned, immature, and inappropriate. New hospital treatment will always require changes in buildings, suitable buildings, because hospitals are about patients. It's not about the employees primarily, although they're important, but it's about patients. It's about security. It's about trust, that you get the help you need, when you need it. It's about distance. It's about weather. It's about security to get there. We had that discussion before in this room when the health and health plan was adopted. At the same time, it has created an internal split in West Finland, between the population of Hammerfest and the population of Alta. Here I think everyone has to take responsibility. I would like to say most strongly about what the representative of Stensland described here, about messages that have come to representatives from the north, or about things that have been written in short, that it is a kind of debate we cannot have on such a serious matter. It's okay to be disappointed. It's okay to disagree, but we have to stick to the discussion in a respectful way. No one in West Finland has had confidence in the investigations that have been carried out. In Alta, you have no confidence in what is done by the UN, and they want the investigation for which they themselves have paid. It does not trust the people of Hammerfest. The Christian People's Party had initially thought that we would support the Left's first proposal, but now the Left joins with the Advance Party and promotes another proposal. That is why the Christian People's Party has decided to support proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The Christian People's Party now asks that we land this case. If this is not what I would like, as the Christian People's Party would wish, I would nevertheless ask that once this decision is made, we must ensure that everyone in this Chamber wants good relations for the patients in the north. If we then maintain the discussion at the same level, I think it won't be a certainty for the patients' best. The population now needs to know that it's going to be adopted, it's going to be like that. Then we have to build out of it. A lengthy discussion is no merit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5038	For us in Red, it is important to defend today's hospital structure in Finnmark. Starting a time-consuming investigation now will delay a hard-pressed uplift for the gradually very narrow and over 60-year-old facilities in both Alta and Hammerfest and, not least, the already planned new buildings for Alta Nærsykhus and Hammerfest hospitals. It will also increase the cost of both projects with a postponement now. In addition, when the Troms and Finnmark states are forced to coerce, we believe that the centralization towards Tromsø will be even stronger. If in such a situation there is uncertainty about new investments in Hammerfest, we are at risk that this whole project will be put into play. Red will therefore maintain the current hospital structure, including the current emergency and food supply. Over many years, a number of professional input has been made by healthcare professionals in West Finland who strongly advise not to split up the supply of food in West Finland between Alta and Hammerfest, as the Centre Party is now proposing. Finnmark is already with its 800 annual births, divided into Kirkenes and Hammerfest, in the frontier country for what is a good food supply. Expertise on births, especially complicated births, is strengthened by experience and the possibility of maintaining this level of experience and competence is reduced if you choose to share two already vulnerable professional environments and spread them over three units. Fewer births per place mean less environments to increase competence, and fewer colleagues to share experiences with. Fears are that the consequences of sharing environments in West Finland are that the expertise built up by Hammerfest Hospital for many years can disappear from the county and put Finnmark back several years in terms of medical personnel. One thing is to move a locality, but a much bigger challenge is to get employees on the relocation desk. A loss of staff will also affect the hospital’s well-established research environment, which includes several doctors and researchers who have moved back to their hometown to live and work. The same applies to other competences now established at Hammerfest Hospital, which are currently offered to the population of West Finland. Similarly, a third hospital in Finland will be professionally affected in areas where a certain number of interventions, operations and treatments are required to maintain the medical professional level. The population in Alta is larger than in Hammerfest, but as an inland municipality, Alta does not have the same challenges with storms and closed roads as the coastal municipalities, including Hammerfest. When the coast and Hammerfest are isolated by storm, emergency patients can still be flown from Alta to Tromsø. In the event of acute injury and disease, the ambulance personnel and medical personnel are in a state of emergency that saves lives with other bruises. They're the ones that resuscitate, stabilize and make sure people stay alive on their way to the hospital. In addition, rescue helicopters, rescue skates, avalanche dog patrols and Red Cross play an important role when the minutes and seconds count. Red therefore wants to strengthen these first line services for the whole of Finnmark. When it comes to creating security and saving lives, it's where we can make a difference and raise the security of the entire population throughout the county. Alta's municipal councillor, Kenneth Johansen, who is to build hospitals in Alta, writes in a chronicle: ‘Oslo Economics states many serious reasons why a new hospital should be built in Alta. Lack of emergency services in Alta are not among them. If the offer in Alta was irresponsible or dangerous, we would see this on statistics, or in the form of responses from the Health Authority. On the other hand, the caretaker in Alta has received national recognition, has been the subject of doctoral work, and received in 2016 the medical association’s quality prize for his professional development work. This I am proud of, and it provides security for both me, my children and my family." Ambulance personnel and municipal doctors shall and must be provided with training to ensure the choice of the right transport in the event of acute injury or disease. Here there must be procedures that are hogged down in stone. It shall not be casual or discussed whether patients should enter Hammerfest when sending patients directly to Tromsø. Against this background, Red will vote against the proposal for a representative and would rather turn around and strengthen today's hospital structure and offer to the Finnmark population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5064	That I would start my post twice in the same evening by agreeing with the representative of Moxnes from Red, I had never thought it would happen, but it has happened today. There are clear requirements for investigations and decision-making in the construction of new hospitals. Guidance for work on development plans and early-stage planning in hospital projects has been developed and external quality assurance is required for projects above 500 million. kr. The hospital structure in Finnmark has been assessed in several rounds of the Finnmark Hospital and Health Nord. The Strategic Development Plan for the Finnish Hospital was adopted by the Finnish Hospital Board in May 2015. Significant work has been done in this and subsequent investigations, and the municipalities involved were involved in the work. In total, this provides a solid basis for the future development of hospitals in Finnmark. Planning and business development in hospitals are extensive and time-consuming processes, and I have made clear that planning work in healthcare companies should not stop pending the national health and hospital plan. Nor was it expected that health businesses would start anew with new plans after the Stortingen had dealt with the national health and hospital plan. In my opinion, the plans underpinning the Finnmark Hospital are in line with the overall political leadership that is now firmly anchored in the National Health and Hospital Plan. The development of the Finnmark Hospital with the units in Kirkenes, Hammerfest, Alta and Karasjok, working on a team with the regional hospital in Tromsø, is in line with the description in the National Health and Hospital Plan and provides a future development of specialist health services in Finnmark, which is in line with the plan. This involves both strengthening networking between hospitals and further developing decentralised specialist health services in cooperation with and co-located with municipal services. There is neither a professional nor an economic basis for establishing several hospitals in Finnmark. The establishment of several emergency hospitals will require parallel staffing and watchkeeping in two hospitals in West Finland. This will lead to high operating costs and weaken the professional environment. The hospitals in Finnmark already have challenges in recruiting and retaining professionals, and I will not do anything that could further weaken the professional environment. The uncertainty surrounding the hospital in Hammerfest will affect the entire health supply in Finnmark and thus also the patients and the population. If there were two equivalent hospital services in Hammerfest and Alta, the patient base would be too small for each of the hospitals, with similar small and vulnerable disciplines. Recruitment problems would be even greater than today, at the risk of some offers falling completely away. The population development in Finnmark and the long travel distance to hospitals for the Alta population are recognised, and this is why Health Nord and the Finnmark Hospital are to strengthen the specialist health service offer in Alta in Klinik Alta. There are no population concentrations of Alta’s size elsewhere in the country that have a longer journey to hospitals, but there are many inhabitants living in smaller municipalities that have an equal or longer journey time to hospitals. Few of these have a specialist health service to the extent that is now being developed in Alta. North Norway also has extensive prehospital services that help to ensure good emergency medical services for the population. The health model is based on a clear division of roles and responsibilities in the management of the specialist health service. Regional health enterprises are responsible for implementing national health policies and providing the public with the necessary specialist health services within their given framework. This also implies an overall responsibility for looking at resources in operation and investment in the context. This division of roles and responsibilities means that regional health establishments have to plan to manage the supply and activity of health businesses within the framework set by the Storting, inter alia. the decision of the national health and hospital plan, and by laying down the conditions for the appropriations covered by the budget. The proposal we are debating today, that the government should promote the cause of the Storting on the future hospital structure in West Finland and have an external investigation of it, will involve a fundamental change that will significantly undermine the established responsibilities of this governance structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5085	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5090	The government parties, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, have reached a budgetary settlement which is therefore also applicable in the area of health. Left Carl-Erik Grimstad referred earlier this evening to the fact that – subject to my quoting correctly – they were the only party that dared to cut the hospital budgets in favour of preventive work. My question to the Minister of Health is as follows: Is it within the budget to which the Left and Christian People's Party has joined the conciliation, room to establish another emergency hospital in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5095	The answer to that is no. The main challenge will in any case not be economic; it will be about the possibility of recruiting professionals from parallel watch teams in highly vulnerable areas. It is also one of the main reasons why I warn against an investigation, because an investigation will result in uncertainty about the hospital and the professional environment in Hammerfest. It is something that will create vulnerability, not just to the specialist health service of the people of West Finland, but to the entire population of Finnmark. That's one of the reasons why I've repeatedly warned against this type of investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5100	There is a long setting in this case, and there is one government party involved in writing a note about what should be offered in Alta in the future. But then I read in the media that Right has strengthened the supply in Alta during this treatment. My question to the Council of State is very specific: can the Council of State identify one offer that has been strengthened during this treatment, against what the health care agency itself puts in its plans, and which is well-known?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5105	What is the strengthening of the position here is the very detailed comment of the majority on the development of Clinic Alta, for example. that, through the establishment of MR and CT, an alarm system is also to be established, where one can also initiate treatment with thrombolysis in Alta. There is something that is not part of the original plans for the project for Alta near-sickness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5110	It is argued that if one establishes e.g. a maternity ward or an emergency care centre in Alta, there will be a deletion of the occupational environment, but when you have to double the outpatient clinic and have a lot of day care, there is a strengthening. I don't fully understand how to argue that way. Can the Council of State go closer to whether he has evidence to say that one is a erasure and the other is a strengthening, when it's the same professional environment we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5115	As the representative is very aware, there is a difference between offering planned activity and building up the type of emergency response needed to have an emergency department and a maternity ward in a hospital. Then we're talking about a completely different range of professional skills that must be present. The two emergency hospitals we already have in Finnmark are already vulnerable hospital environments. Each doctor specialising in these hospitals is a key staff member. Makes it uncertain, forces you through e.g. the establishment of a new, fully-fledged maternity ward elsewhere, as it is a risk that these professional environments will crumble. The consequence of the Center Party's proposal may be that neither Hammerfest nor Alta have a full supply of food, and that all first-timers must travel to Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5121	I share the description of this situation with the representative of Toppe. This was a matter I had hoped we could come back to later. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State can recognise the work done by Oslo Economics in this context. That government council calls uncertainty about a new investigation, I call a better decision-making basis. Doesn't the Council of State think that the situation in Alta is so special that this in itself should be reason enough to go a new round?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5128	As also appears in my reply to Stortinget, there is reason to put a big question mark on both investigations carried out by Oslo Economics. I don't have to go into all the details around it, but there's a reason to put big question marks on this. No, this is a matter that is well enough investigated, and it is very special to suggest in Stortinget that one should have an external investigation of something as investigated as this. It also fundamentally breaks with what is the governance model today, and is, in fact, a strong mistrust of Health Nord.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5135	It is now reported from medical teams that it is easier to recruit people in Alta than in Hammerfest, and it rhymes with my reality description of the situation in Alta. There is a large and growing population that, compared to Hammerfest, is a complex business and a good university and higher education environment. This is a good offer for children and young people. It's a very good and stable aviation connection, and it tends to be a good basis for establishing a good professional environment for people with long academic education behind them, and who often have it to settle with people of the same background. Can the Council of State understand and share this observation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5142	Yeah, I can do that one hundred percent. There is also some of my basic concerns, because if you do something that puts the hospital in Hammerfest at risk, for example. by creating an expectation that the new hospital will be in Alta, or that a parallel professional environment will be built in Alta, we will weaken the recruitment to Hammerfest Hospital. The people on the coast of West Finland, when it is bad weather, as the representative described in a good way, have no alternative. The people of Alta have two ambulance planes standing at their airport with 24 hours of standby. This is one of our most regulated airports, and one has very good flight conditions to Tromsø. It's usually an alternative for Alta and the surrounding municipalities. For the population on the coast of West Finland, there is no alternative if Hammerfest hospital does not exist in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5149	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5156	In the Center Party Norway, we want local hospitals all over the country, and we want to build up the local preparedness, not build it down. In the hospital debate that is now raging, it is put up for a fight between Hammerfest and Alta. The centre party is not in that dance, because the hospital debate is so much more. The Medical Association has stated that ‘professional safety, good preparedness and security for the population must be given priority to the hospital structure of the country’. That some politicians, including Finnmark, set hospitals up against each other, are pretty much defensive. I guess that's something that's left of us being eaten with crumbs so often, and that the reason is the population. We have a North Norwegian Christmas salad where we sing that «we stood there with a lua in hands». But that can't be the case when it comes to life and health. We also have to remember that it is not Alta and Hammerfest that have the longest travel time. There are a lot of people who have both two, three and four hours longer. The distance is equal to both ways, and the closed mountain passes stop you no matter which way you're going. In this debate, the offer to Sami patients has also drowned. Manning is used as an argument against expanding the offer in Alta, but I would like to turn it around a little bit: the possibility of recruiting Sami health professionals will be better in Alta, where you have Sami kindergarten, school facilities and an environment. Today, most of the Sami patients go to Hammerfest Hospital, and there is no success in giving a Sami offer. The hospital there depends on telephone interpretation, and that is something that is anything but fair. One out of 60 born in Finnmark does not reach the maternity ward in time. It is said that a society is mirrored in how we treat our most vulnerable, and the birthing and newborn are in that category. An investigation will make the need for increased allocations to Finnmark, due to location, climate and transport services. A maternity ward and reinforced emergency response in Alta shall not be at the expense of Hammerfest. The proposal of the Centre Party is concrete and goes straight to the demand for a fair offer and a good preparedness, and that enlargement could happen in parallel with the further development of Finnmark. It must not stop for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5173	Today, the Storting must decide whether to set up future hospital services that provide the patient’s best in West Finland, or whether yesterday’s solutions will apply to new 50-60 years, without satisfactory impact assessment. The national health and hospital plan establishes the following: ‘When conflicting interests make it difficult to agree on what is the best solution; [[...]] I am in favour of making decisions on the best possible basis, and for me it is important to have a fact-based investigation on the table, so that the investments made will help to get the best possible health care and provide security for citizens throughout the country. In West Finland there is an uprising, which most of the Stortinget should have brought. It's a rebellion that is the result of the fact that the consideration of the patient for very many is not the most important, but the consideration of established structures and workplaces. When the minutes and seconds count and the emergency offer are several hours or a closed mountain crossing away, it is understandable that it creates insecurity for those affected by a life-critical acute illness. When, as a patient, you are sent in ambulances over a mountain crossing, in varying weather, and in the middle – in a parking space without shelter for precipitation, weather and wind – you are lifted out of one ambulance and into another ambulance, then there is no consideration for the patient on the basis. The population of West Finland has good reason to be concerned that more than one third of the population of Finnmark will continue to have as poor access to emergency services and food supplies in hospitals as they do today, with the same unforeseeable travel time as today, when the minutes count, especially winter time. Today’s practice requires sending to its nearest local hospital, and for these patients it is Hammerfest Hospital, 140 km from Alta and 270 km from Kautokeino, respectively. In very many cases, this is a significant detour – before being sent to the University Hospital in Tromsø for treatment. It is regrettable that there are politicians who do not want to know what will provide the best and safest possible health care for the inhabitants of West Finland. Otherwise, one is very concerned about the consequences of oil extraction, fisheries, road projects, even power lines. Then it's worrying that you don't want an equally independent investigation when it comes to life and health. This is therefore a sad day when it now appears to be a majority of the Stortinget – and especially when there are politicians from Finnmark – who do not want an investigation that will be important for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5201	This has been a demanding matter to follow, and I assessed whether I should not vote in this case. The pressure has been great, and it has been demanding. In the election campaign I was very in doubt about what was right to mean, and what was right to do in this case. The proposal from the left was not submitted, but it was notified. Is investigation tricked, or is expansion tricked? We in the Right have come to the conclusion that development is tricked, that is. that we are opposed to stopping a sorely intrusive expansion in Alta and Hammerfest. The investigation, as left has presented it here, will stop this whole process and put it on hold for several years. We need this new hospital building, and we need more and better hospital services in Alta. I mean this because I know how important good health care is to the inhabitants of West Finland, no matter which city you are in, and no matter which side of Skaidi you may be from. I know this because I myself have taken trains with 7,000 people because we wanted better hospital services. It is only that the investigation now being proposed takes time and postpones all necessary investments, and West Finland does not have time to wait for quality and content to improve. This has been planned since 2009, so let's no longer wait to get it in place. We in the Right react to the fact that the hospital and hospital services that are now coming to the new clinic in Alta, by others, are called ‘crumbs’. We should not refer to necessary health services as ‘smokers’, and we should not refer to increased quality and service provision as an ‘Caesar without clothing’, for who will believe that the emperor has clothes, and who will have these crumbs? These are words that are now being chosen by those who want to stop the process and who undermine the work being done to strengthen the service provision. My 74 - year - old grandfather has aphasia. He might not have been sitting in a wheelchair today had we had the alarm we're getting now – this is what others think is muttering – and then maybe it wouldn't have been so much reduced, with the extra damage this stroke caused him. He could have tried treatment with thrombolysis in Alta instead of in Hammerfest. He could have been diagnosed faster with CT in Alta, and then had been sent to UNN, the University Hospital of North Norway, which was the right treatment agency for him in this case. But it took too long. This may be ‘snake’ for some, but it is important health services to get in place, and it is important to get them in place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5220	We have this debate today on the basis of the dispute related to the underlying desire to move the hospital from Hammerfest, where it is today, to Alta. The rationale for the wish is demographic development. I have the following oral cavity that illustrates Finnmark's health challenges: In Finnmark we have two hospitals, population to only one and area to many. Our dilemma is that we're few people on a huge area. The hospitals are now located at Hammerfest and Kirkenes. The localisation has been confirmed unanimously in Stortinget through the treatment of the national health and hospital plan. Both hospitals needed a sore upgrade. The new Church Hospital is completed at these times, and Hammerfest is on its way. Health Nord has decided that a new hospital should be built in Hammerfest and that the old one should not be renovated. Furthermore, it has been decided that Alta near-sickness housing should be expanded. There's been a lot of commitment in Alta to emergency services and maternity, which by definition is a hospital. On the other hand, there has been an equal commitment in Hammerfest to retaining its hospital. This case has put the feelings in turn in West Finland, to say it mildly. I thank you for all your input, e-mails, postcards or other media. Everything has been read and evaluated regardless of content. The left claimed in the election campaign that they had submitted a document 8 proposal to the Stortinget regarding this matter. That wasn't right. The proposal was submitted after the construction of the new Stortinget. The Progress Party has promised Alta's population an investigation into the election campaign – in 2013, 2015 and 2017 – without it being carried out, despite having been in government for the last four years. Amazingly, we did not see any sign of a health crown for this purpose when the Right-Fremskritsparte government presented its budget in October 2017, despite the fact that the leader of the Progress Party is Minister of Finance. The left has not been better. They have negotiated with the government and not added a single penny to the hospital in Alta. Both the Progress Party and the Left have given the people of Alta the impression that they would fix hospitals for Alta. The budget agreement shows that both the Progress Party and the Left speak with two tongues. These batches operate the sport ‘locally, do something else centrally’. The agreement between the Progress Party, the Right and the Support Parties means less money for health companies and that it becomes more demanding to provide health services in the hospitals we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5238	I had to answer some of the claims from the left here: they say it's not about a new hospital, but about an investigation. Another investigation, at the top of all the investigations that have already been made! You have to put all the investments on the whole of Finnmark again to get another investigation on top. Instead, we choose to listen to the professionals and to the investigations that have been made. We listen to the Finnish Medical Association, we listen to the Finnish Association of Nurses, and we listen to the Finnish Association of Professionals, all of whom agree that we need to work with the professional community that exists. The left mentions the hospital three times throughout the entire length of its alternative state budget, they've been boasting from this pulpit for years with proposals for cutting in the hospital sector, and then they're going to have us believe that it's going to provide a better offer in Finnmark. Grimstad of the Left spoke about the danger of transport births in Finnmark. The father is there, but in this room we have to rely on the facts, and the fact is that there were five transport births throughout Finnmark last year, because you take important steps with free hospitals and stay in Hammerfest. A distribution of three food departments will give less than one birth per day. It does not provide good opportunities to recruit gynecologists, obstetricians and others who are important for a good birth offer. Then it's about standing firm over Sennaland – yes, it's serious. But that road goes two ways, and the difference is that when there's bad weather, the planes in Hammerfest, a town that's on the coast, make it almost impossible to travel in and out of the whole coastal community of Finnmark. It is very rare it is not possible to fly from Alta to Tromsø. SV would like us to have three emergency hospitals in Finnmark. In many years, when the population is larger, we might be able to do it. That's what everyone wants, but we have to ensure that the entire population has access to emergency services, and then we have to make sure it's possible to fly out. It's more often in Alta than in Hammerfest. Therefore, it is important that we now expand the offer both in Alta and Hammerfest and in the rest of Finnmark, and do not post this again with another investigation. Good services for patients require good employees. They're the ones who do the job. Suggesting to lay down an entirely professional environment, so to build a completely new professional environment, is unprofessional, and it scares me about the importance it will have for professionals and for job security. We need an investment for the whole of Finnmark. That's what we get with the plan that's in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5254	Access to healthcare is important for citizens to feel safe for life and health. This is not least the case in Finnmark, a state characterized by its climate and by long distances. Many people have a long way to go to hospitals, and the patient’s experience of healthcare is important. It's an extra load with a long journey. It is therefore important to have a comprehensive offer that focuses on content and quality at all stages. Hospitals, near hospitals, specialist health services, the first line service of the municipality, ambulances, air ambulances, medical boats and patient trips must contribute to the overall optimum provision of health care. Finnmark has a population of 76 000. However, long distances justify the fact that Finnmark has two hospitals, one in Kirkenes in East Finland and the other in Hammerfest in West Finland. The construction of the new Church Hospital is immediately completed, and the construction of a new hospital in Hammerfest is the turn of the day. This is in line with the Stortingen’s decision on the National Health and Hospital Plan of March 2016. At the same time, the Finnmark Hospital has adopted the Alta near-sickness hospital project, a reconstruction and extension of the current Alta health centre, in cooperation between the Finnish State Hospital and the municipality of Alta, with a significant expansion of the specialist health service. It is essential that these plans are fully financed and monitored as planned. Siv Jensen and Frank Bakke-Jensen held a press conference in Alta on 17 June 2017. The message was that they stood firm in the decision of the Storting regarding structure. In the period 2013–2017, the same government has provided five health complaints, without any of them doubting that the government wants the current hospital structure. Nevertheless, we note that the Promskrittspartei in retrospect has gone out hard and promised a hospital to Alta. We know that there are tough fronts in this case. Many of the arguments used after Stortingen’s treatment contribute to spreading uncertainty and fear around today’s and future health services throughout West Finland. Today, it is the Left's document 8 that we have to deal with, with demands for further investigations. Local politicians in Alta have worked actively for many years to get a full hospital in Alta. This has undoubtedly contributed to the strengthening of the health service, through the establishment of Alta near-sickness centre. We see the great popular commitment to the matter, through the opening up of demonstration and post-card action. As politicians, we have obligations to face issues that contribute to increasing health provision, but without creating undue fear and uncertainty. However, it becomes a little strange when there are now so many differences between promises and follow-up by political decisions, as in the Government Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5267	Even if it's one of my own parties, I have to say that the post from Nancy P. Anti was a post that made an impression. And when she stands for it and fights for it, she meets with words like «short-term populism», I think it shows that the Storting does not take this matter seriously. To the representative from SV: It is strange that we are together about Odda Hospital and think that because of the distance to the nearest hospital, in Haugesund, we have to maintain an emergency preparedness for acute events, and then this should not apply. Then one looks away from the superficial argument about erasing the professional environment. That's how we can use that as an argument in time and inconsistency when it suits us. It depends on what kind of political will we have to ensure an equivalent offer. To the representative, Grimstad, who makes it like we don't want to go in for distribution: No, we have a separate proposal that's more precise. Because it's the food department that's most important to get in place, we've said that we should vote subsidiaryly for the distribution, and we've actually put money into it in the alternative budget, so that the health agency doesn't get hurt. As I said in my post, we've gone from 160 birth institutions to 45. When we have an area where we see that it is unfair that it is not an equivalent offer, we need to be able to discuss this on a factual basis. We're not doing that today. We're clear it's not easy. If we're going to do this in Finnmark, we need a strong cooperation with the rotation of health professionals, so that one gets that competence and experience that makes the offer safe. Nor do we say that there will be a complete emergency hospital in Alta. The food supply has to be adapted, but as the natives have it in Alta today – and one can provide statistics on transport births and everything possible – it is not acceptable. This has to do with what kind of values we want our healthcare service to be built on, and those values don't apply to people in Alta today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5278	An argument that is often used to prevent an investigation is that there will be no patient basis for birth and emergency services both in Alta and in Hammerfest. It will be unfortunate for the established professional community. The patient is still not taken into account here. If you look at the patient base in West Finland, there are 47,000 inhabitants there, and it is claimed to be a minimum to have a good professional environment. If you look at the patient base of the Church Hospital in East Finland, that is the basis in Alta and Hammerfest, respectively, and I am not familiar with them – on the contrary. This is also the case with a two-way sharing of healthcare in the West. It is not an unreasonable requirement to want the same security and predictability as the rest of the country, as a food department and emergency services will provide to the majority of the population in West Finland, which I believe such an investigation would suggest – if you want to take into account the patient. In the previous debates today, we have heard about regional reform and the arguments that the long distances are in the north. The representative from the Workers' Party in Finnmark was very concerned with costs and distances when it comes to merging county administrations, but it obviously doesn't mean as much to them when we talk about people's lives and health. I experienced myself in March to break my back. Upon arrival at Hammerfest Hospital, it was found that there was an unstable fracture, and the fear of becoming paralyzed from the crime scene and down was very great. The message from the University Hospital Nord-Norway in Tromsø was that I should remain completely calm and be sent on as soon as possible, because this was an injury they could not treat in Hammerfest. It went almost six days before I was sent on. I got good forethought, that's not it, but it took six days before I was sent to Tromsø to secure the damage and treatment. Fortunately, I didn't have a life-critical injury. After permission from relatives, I will tell you about my uncle's last three days. Night to Thursday he was added to Hammerfest, sent by ambulance aircraft, with acute stomach and hip pain. On Friday he is printed with the diagnosis «neural stone questions». On Saturday, he'll be picked up with an ambulance for the bodyguard, where he'll stop his heart. It will be resuscitation and intubation before he is resuscitated Hammerfest with ambulance planes, where resuscitation ends and death is detected. The cause of death was aortic aneurism. My cousin, who was then 29 years old, stood at the reception of the hospital and comforted the doctor who the day before wrote out my uncle. He was 62 years old. Would the outcome have been the same if he had been sent directly to UNN? These are two simple examples – of many – of how health services can be experienced in West Finland, and of the need to have proper diagnosis and to be sent to the right treatment site, which in such cases is the University Hospital Nord-Norway in Tromsø. There are many who make such stories, and that's also why you take the fight to get a full-fledged emergency offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5297	Bengt Rune Strifeldt from the Progenskrittspartiet stated at NRK Finnmark on 30 November that Alta would have his hospital, but that Hammerfest would also have to keep his own. When is the Progress Party going to deliver on these promises? When are they going to set aside funds for it, those sitting on the money bag? Part of the debate has revolved around the possibility of getting three hospitals in Finnmark. Is that realistic? We have no population in Finnmark for more than one hospital. It's just the distance between Kirkenes and Hammerfest that justifies that we have two. The trade unions in Finnmark believe that it is totally unrealistic that we should be able to have three hospitals and maintain a professionally sound offer. It is in the treatment of the national health and hospital plan that has been unanimously adopted in the Stortingen where hospitals in Finnmark are to be located. The discussion on an investigation related to a change in the geographical location of hospitals in West Finland would be contrary to the decision of the national parliament of the country. Health Nord cannot initiate such an investigation contrary to the decision of the Storting. In that case, it would be to go across decisions taken by the Supreme Authority. For Finnmark as a county, it is important that we get modern and timely hospitals, not least to be attractive to professionals. This case needs to be clarified so that it does not lead to a delay in both new buildings at Hammerfest Hospital and a nearby hospital in Alta. For we as the county are not worthy of any further postponements. There is also an ongoing discussion about the number of inhabitants who are implicated in Alta and Hammerfest respectively — an estimated 23 000 or 24 000 to Alta and 21 000 to Hammerfest. It clearly shows that no matter where the hospital is located, many people have a long way to go to the hospital. We have many mountain crossings in Finnmark. If the hospital were to be moved to Alta, part of the coast would have three mountain crossings, and then they would have lost the opportunity to bring an ambulance to the hospital, which is an alternative to a large part of the coast. Finnmark has a demanding geography — with distances, mountain crossings, a lot of maritime activity and challenging weather conditions. We must have a hospital structure that balances the disadvantages of our geography and our low population. The single decision of the size in the treatment of the national health and hospital plan does just that. Finnmark's two hospitals, along with the first line service in the municipality, give us Finnmarkinger a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5312	I think it's sad that representatives from some of the other parties use the chance of a polemic towards the left instead of trying to see this from Alta's perspective. It was said here that the Left has not spent any money on hospitals, and that it should be used as an argument against the party. It is then no surprise that the left had not spent any money on a hospital. We are asking for an investigation of this, and then we can come back to putting money into a hospital at a later stage. Then it's said that an investigation is going to take many years. What kind of rhetorical grip is that? It doesn't have to be erased. The representative Wilkinson listens and listens to the Medical Association, he listens to the health companies, and he listens to other health administrators, while the only ones he doesn't listen to are the people of Alta, and I think he should take the time to do that. So it's said that the Left boasts that they've cut in the hospital sector. What's all this nonsense? What we have done is to make visible that primary health care and prevention are the priority of the Left. When we face a health budget, we need to give priority to primary health care and prevention. Then you have to cut somewhere – and at least we don't boast about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5327	For the Centre Party, the matter concerns safety and preparedness and more equivalent specialist health services. And as Ingarill Olsen said, Finnmark is a huge state, and there are little people. Obviously, this is a very demanding dilemma. That's why I take the floor in the matter, to see it with a sewing eye. When a southerly from Buskerud comes to Finnmark, one sees more clearly how acidifications have treated Finnmark in many contexts, and now we are discussing health. The situation that Finnmark is in, with the dilemma that Ingalill Olsen describes, must, in our opinion, lead to a special treatment of the specialist health service in Finnmark. What accelerated the discussion about Alta, and what Alta and the people who are soaking up to Alta are going to get, was the treatment of Odda's hospitals. Then we got really fast in the discussion, and then it was said to the Center Party: when you are so active to secure the offer in Odda, you have to take the consequences of it and also do a better job for other parts of the country. Yes, we have long had plans to do a stronger job for other parts of the country, but at least it became clear to us that in Alta the offer needs to be improved. What is important is that no uncertainty is now created about the construction of a new hospital in Hammerfest. As many have experienced, the situation along the coast is even more difficult than it is for those who have Alta as their base. With great and severe distances, there is a situation in which people who socket to Alta need to be given better security, with a maternity ward in Alta and necessary emergency functions associated with it. The dilemma becomes, as many people have had, that professionals need practice, professionals need challenging work, and that means that one has to compensate for the lack of numbers that one has a network model that is more extensive in Finnmark than the rest of the country. The council said that there are many people in smaller municipalities in the country who have a longer distance from the local hospitals than what is the situation for people associated with Alta. Yes, that's right, but we don't see that as a decisive argument. It has also been said that there is no great danger of transport births. The situation is, as far as I've learned, that special drugs are used to delay births and thus have fewer transport births. We don't need transport births.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5338	I just have to repeat myself: this hospital debate is so much more than what we're talking about here. We are still here with lua in hand, and then we accept that it is presented as if all of the improvements that are going to happen in Finnmark have to go at the expense of something else. That's not the case. This is a necessary bet, which you have to dry. That's what I'm talking about and referring to instead. We are used to thank you for what it has to be, it's not about talking down the offers that are planned to put in. This case is about people, it's about our fellow people – old, young, sick and patients. And then it's about security, that we - even in Finnmark - have a claim to the same sense of security that others have. Then I just want to say that this network model that the Central Party adds to is exactly what is the solution for Finnmark, that we have good, decentralised services, where cooperation is built instead of the health institutions competing with each other, as it is put up for in the debate that is going on. I'm happy to be in the Center Party, which is a party that is able to see the challenges in what we have of landscapes, weather and storms, language and culture. As it was said here instead, this goes on political will. We have to dry, also we from Finnmark, to claim that this is what it's all about – not constantly putting everything up against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5347	Some of the interventions have tried to create the impression that what is likely to be the majority decision in this case is that the big community has a bad treatment for Finnmark. That's not what this case is about. It is not that a collective Finnmark wants an investigation of the hospital structure in Finnmark. On the contrary – large parts of Finnmark are very concerned about whether the case should have been resolved today. The parallel to Odda Hospital is wrong. Odd hospitals are not neighbouring hospitals of another hospital with challenges related to patient basis and recruitment. Odd hospitals are part of Health Fonna, which has two other hospitals, Stord and Haugesund, not least Haugesund, with a good and robust patient base. The reason for the discussion about Odda Hospital didn't have that parallel, and the representative Toppe knows that very well. The same can also be said about Voss's hospital. How can Voss Hospital have the contents they have today? Well, that's because they're close to a major university hospital and without any problems, a number of patients can send to another hospital. That is not the case in Finnmark. As the Labour Party representative has repeatedly said, Finnmark is a large group with a population base that is really enough for one acute hospital, but due to distances, we need special measures to maintain two emergency hospitals. But there won't be a basis for three. It won't be sustainable, and that's what you have to deal with in this case. But there are very good opportunities to strengthen and secure the population of Alta and the surrounding municipalities. Not least, I have a great deal of understanding of what the representative Strifeldt told me about stories from reality, that a person experiences a trip to Hammerfest and then is told that a person should actually be at the University Hospital in Tromsø. That is why it is so important to build up the decentralised diagnostic capability of getting CT and MR machines in Alta, so that one can take the pictures there before deciding whether to send one to Hammerfest or directly to Tromsø. It is precisely the type of action that will further enhance the security of Alta – building a wider professional environment. At the end of the day, the coherent emergency chain is crucial, the relationship with the community health service. This works really well. Finnmark professionals stand around the clock to ensure a good supply of specialists and a good level of security — often under very difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5356	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5361	If the offer works very well, why does 7 000 go on torch trains in Alta? This is not about the fact that much of Finnmark is against this proposal. You can also say about other places. Large parts of Telemark didn't care that Rjukan was put down. This is about the rights of minorities and that you have a right to an equal supply regardless of each cage, and whether there are a few or more in the population. The comparison with Voss and Odda is really real. It goes by the distance to another hospital, it goes by the time you tolerate having one before you arrive at an emergency. It applies to the maternity ward, but it also applies to other emergency services. So that comparison is completely real.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5368	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5380	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5389	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's Proposal No 1, by Kristin Ørmen Johnsen on behalf of the Right Party and the Progress Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of non-residents to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: Paragraph 32, first paragraph, point (d) is replaced by the following: (d) have travelled to the State after having resided in a country or area in which the foreigner was not persecuted and where the foreigner will receive an application for protection. Paragraph 90, sixth paragraph, point (d) is replaced by the following: (d) the non-resident is subject to point (b) of the first subparagraph or to the fifth subparagraph of Article 32; Paragraph 105(e) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: (e) the third-country national's application for protection has been or is most likely to be rejected in substance in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Section 32; or Paragraph 106(g) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: (g) the third-country national's application for protection is most likely to be rejected in substance in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Section 32. This does not apply if the stranger is a minor or has minor children who have also sought protection; or Paragraph 106a(k) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: (k) the third-country national's application for protection has been rejected in substance pursuant to the fifth paragraph of Section 32; or Paragraph 107, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: As a general rule, a foreigner who is apprehended and imprisoned in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 106 shall be located in a foreign international organisation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the requirement of a clear identity for a temporary work permit be increased to the level currently applicable to the granting of an asylum application.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5463	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals to repeal the existing 24-year family establishment requirement.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5480	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The president pointed out that the proposal was put to the vote during the debate, and that was the following: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals on six years’ work or education requirements in Norway before family start-ups can take place, starting to count at 18 years. The six-year requirement shall apply only to reference persons who have received (1) asylum, (2) stay on a humanitarian basis or (3) stay on the basis of the family immigration legislation. The six-year requirement shall not apply to Norwegian nationals.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5582	The Committee's decision to refer to the second paragraph of Section 76 shall be contested first. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5596	: The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee pursuant to Section 94. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5611	A vote shall be taken on the remainder of the Committee's position on I and II. The President has reason to believe that this vote is now unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5623	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on III and the proposal No 1 from the Right and the Progress Party, which reads as follows: ‘III 1st@item: inlistbox Part I applies from the time the King decides. The King may bring into force the individual provisions at different times. 2nd@item: inlistbox Part II shall enter into force immediately.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5635	The President assumes that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party must support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5647	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5657	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5666	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5683	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 13, from Torhild Bransdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5698	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the authorities to inform the municipalities of Sandnes and Forsand that the Stortinget will reconsider the merger decision and that those of these municipalities wishing the merger decision will have to make this known as soon as possible. If any of the two municipalities are aware of this, the Stortinget government is asking the Stortinget to bring forward a case for the conversion of the merger decision as soon as possible. Where possible, it should be clarified in the same case whether there is a basis for voluntary bundling with other municipalities in this area.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5715	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Leka kommune, Bindal kommune, Vikna kommune and Nærøje kommune will not be merged as from 1 January 2020, cf. Decision 828 of 8 June 2017. The county boundary between Trøndelag and Nordland is not adjusted. The municipalities of Vikna and Nærøy are merged as from 1 January 2020, assuming that both municipalities take a positive decision on aggregation by 1 March 2018. It is assumed that the municipalities retain incentives and funds intended for Vikna and Nærø in the event of aggregation.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the merger of Spydeberg, Eidsberg, Hobøl, Askim and Trögstad if one of the municipalities so requests by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the merger of Mandal, Marnardal and Lindesnes if one of the municipalities so requests by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the merger of Kristiansand, Søgne and Songdalen if one of the municipalities so requests by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the merger of Haram, Ålesund, Skodje, Sandøy and Ørskog if requested by one of the municipalities by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the merger of Sogndal, Balestrand and Leikang if one of the municipalities so requests by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the merger of Bjugn and Ørland if one of the municipalities so requests by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the termination of the merger of Lenvik, Torsken, Berg and Tranøy if one of the municipalities so requests by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the suspension of the division of Tysfjord if the municipality so requests by 1 March 2018.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘In view of the decision taken by the municipality of Sørum on 25 October 2017, the Government of Stortinget is asking the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the merger of the municipalities of Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5784	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Leka kommune, Bindal kommune, Vikna kommune and Nærøje kommune will not be merged as from 1 January 2020, cf. Decision 828 of 8 June 2017. The county boundary between Trøndelag and Nordland is not adjusted. The municipality of Vikna and the municipality of Nærøy are merged as from 1 January 2020.» The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5798	The Greens are against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5803	The Green Party is against, yes – that's what I'm saying. It is the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Red that have given their support to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5815	Is there any problem with this? It's a long night, and we must have concentration and no small talk. Was there anything wrong with this voting? No – then it is best to be quiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5821	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5837	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5856	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5875	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5889	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–6, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 7, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for the assignment of tasks from the regional government, the directorates and the county councils. The task assignment shall strengthen the role of county councils as civil society developers and provide elected regional governance with multiple planning and development tasks.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5921	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The sales volume is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the establishment of a common region between Østfold, Akershus and Buskerud and come back to Stortinget with a proposal where these three counties are divided into two counties.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5938	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a mechanism whereby county councils which are subject to the decision of the Storting in 2017 on coercion may, upon application, continue as their own county.’ The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e5955	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the recasting of decisions concerning the merger of Vestfold and Telemark counties.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the recasting of decisions concerning the merger of Hedmark and Uppland counties.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the recasting of decisions concerning the merger of Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud counties.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the recasting of decisions concerning the merger of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane counties.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the recasting of decisions concerning the merger of the municipalities of Troms and Finnmark.’ Red has announced support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6005	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6017	That must be wrong. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6029	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6062	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6067	President! SV will also vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6136	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6146	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6155	During the debate, Kjersti Toppe has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the notification system to all healthcare providers, patients and relatives. An extension may, if appropriate, be tested in a pilot project or other pilot scheme before it is introduced for all municipal health and care services.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a wide-ranging review of the responses of supervisory authorities to health professionals and their practice with a view to evaluating the impact of reactions on patient safety.’ The Green and Red Environmental Party had announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6179	President! I could not vote. The color of the button was incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6184	Immigrant bench wears! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6189	I didn't think so! Then we'll take it again – it's an integration action. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6201	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6582	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6592	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6597	Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government asks the government to consider extending the work area to the patient and user representatives to county dental services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6613	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to promote a case on how to facilitate, on average, one hour of physical activity on a daily basis, within today’s frame metal, for students between 1 and 10. Steps.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6621	The right has announced that they will vote against it. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party will also vote against. So it is the Progress Party and the Left that are going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6642	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6658	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Steinar Engeli Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3-5, from Carl-Erik Grimstad on behalf of Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Three to five from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government asks the emergency hospital in Hammerfest, emergency hospital in Alta and emergency hospital both in Alta and Hammerfest.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that investigations into the future hospital structure in West Finland are assessed separately against geographical areas with more hospitals than in West Finland, such as Ofoten, Vesterålen, Lofoten, Hardanger, Voss, etc.’. [[on a smaller area, a smaller population and with shorter distances]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking the government to promote the cause of the Stortinget on future hospital structure in West Finland.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6697	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to expand the provision of specialist health services in Alta with a food department and to provide the necessary emergency services in connection with this. It has to be assumed that a new hospital will be built in Hammerfest and that hospitals in Finnmark will work together in a network model to provide the whole population with an equivalent quality of health.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6714	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to carry out an independent full investigation into the hospital structure in West Finland.’ The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6731	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6736	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6755	The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6776	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - Jorod Asphjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6786	President! In the context of proposal No. 13 in Case No. 3 I recorded that the number of votes was 49 against 48 votes – can it vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6791	That can be true.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6796	President! During the debate it was clear that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party were united.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6801	The right has gone into favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-07.ana.ud535e6806	From what I can see here, that's the right decision. The proposal was adopted. - Should there be anything more before it closes? Do more people ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? [[Laughter]] - The meeting's been cancelled.
