ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e28	The called alternate of the East-Agder County, Line Kisses Wennesland, now takes the seat. An application for welfare leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Martin Kolberg on 15 and 16 February. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Buskerud County, Laila Gustavsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet under Martin Kolberg's leave on 15 and 16 February, for reasons of well-being. That application is also proposed to be dealt with immediately and in agreement. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate of the County of Buskerud, Niclas Tokerud, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Niclas Tokerud is present and will take the seat. The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e55	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande, Terje Breivik, Pál Farstad and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the permanent protection against petroleum activities in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e76	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Vidar Helgesen and Frank Bakke-Jensen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e86	My question goes to the European Minister, whom I congratulate on his new position. An important task for him is to promote Norwegian interests in the northern regions, both in the Nordic countries and in Europe. It is crucial for Norwegian policy, but it is also crucial for our security and foreign policy. In the Stoltenberg II government, we were committed to ensuring that Norwegian administration and sovereignty were understood and respected by other countries. Active policies against Nordic neighbours, neighbours in the north and towards the EU were required. Two milestones were of great importance. One was the so-called 2008 Ilulissat Declaration, where foreign ministers in the Arctic region decided that the law of the sea applies in the north. The principles of our Arctic policy were established. The other was that tone-provoking countries showed understanding and respect for our way of thinking about the Arctic, and actually put their Arctic strategy close up to what we had as our strategy. This is of great importance, because out in the world they often have a view that the Arctic is a new area, which has its own rules, and which has not yet been fully discovered. Everyone who knows the northern regions knows it's wrong. Either the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean or the Arctic sea areas apply to the Law of the Sea. The responsibilities and rights of the coastal States also apply. This year, Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and the Council of State is responsible for the government. In our reign, it was important when we had the presidency, to raise the Norwegian view of the north areas there. I hardly find a reference to the northern regions or the Arctic in the programme that is in force during this period. I find that alarming, because then one is defensive in the work that must be carried out constantly to ensure Norwegian interests in the northern regions. My question is: what initiatives has our Nordic Minister of Cooperation taken to lift the northern regions into Nordic cooperation on European policy? It is about the organised Nordic cooperation, but also about the work with our Nordic neighbouring countries in the north. What concrete initiatives have been taken, and who is he going to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e99	First, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to continue talking about the Northern Region policy in this Chamber. As a local politician, regional politician and national politician, I have followed the Northern Region policy and the development of it since Jan Petersen presented the first Northern Region Communication. We should be aware that many of the descriptions and scenarios you saw there – for approx. 15 years ago - that's what's happening in the north now. Looking ahead, a job was started with a trend to make this policy relevant national, Nordic and European. I have therefore followed the policy, and some of the important tasks I agree with the representative Gahr Støre are to make this relevant in the Nordic countries and in Europe. For me, it has been important in one way – I have probably a different approach to this policy than Gahr Støre has. For me, it's important to show Europe and the rest of the world that in this part of the Arctic, it's a warm, pulsating society, it's hot, pulsating life. Here is a lot of politics about people. That is why, in our approach to Northern Region policy, we have said that yes, it is something high up, far out – to quote former Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre – but it is also something quite concrete. It's about giving the people of the country the opportunity to get such a good school that they, when they have the opportunity, are able to choose from among them according to their own wishes. It is about building an infrastructure that places the country part in a position to participate in development itself. I take this into account in the Nordic perspective when I work as a minister in the Nordic Council of Ministers. This explanation can also be found in regional politicians and politicians with vision in Finland and Sweden. I also take that policy with me when I meet my colleagues in Europe: explaining that the important thing in this – and the important message – is that this is a pulsating, warm part of the Arctic, full of people and full of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e110	It was a pulsating and hot answer, which did not answer the question. There is not one word about the northern regions in his action plan, and it is probably read by others. It is not only our Nordic neighbours that we should work actively against, but it is also Europe, the EU and EU countries. Last week there was a report from the European Parliament on the Arctic policy of the European Union. It shall be dealt with during March. It is a report that is not in line with Norwegian interests. Among other things, it fights. established by the EU Commission that EU countries are to work for an international ban on oil and gas activities in the Arctic. Then the questions come to mind: what is prohibition? What does the Arctic mean? What impact will such an EU policy have on Norwegian oil and gas activities in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea? The Norway Action Plan in Europe does not say a word about the Arctic either — it is hardly mentioned. So an active policy on the hot, pulsating life far out there, on which Bakke-Jensen was involved, is not mentioned in the action plan. Then the question is, what do the Council and the government intend to do in this specific matter? What has been done now, and what will be done until this discussion is brought up in the European Parliament in March?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e115	I am also very pleased that I hold a Council of State position dedicated to contacting Europe. Unlike the previous governments, we have said that contact with the EU and our main partners is so important that we dedicate a Council of State position to doing that work. We could have earned that earlier, too. So that's how we produce our messages in the advice we participate in. The government is going to put forward a north-eastern strategy, which is also going to show us how to pull the long lines down to Europe, how to pull the long lines towards the fora in international policy, like the United Nations. Then it is that, in a united cooperation in the Nordic countries, when we can work well with our Nordic partners, we also make the Nordic countries, the North and the Arctic relevant in Europe and in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e122	There will be follow-up questions – first Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e127	From my point of view, it's a little uncertain whether there's an upgrade to the Northern Region Policy that it's no longer Jonas Gahr Støre who's in charge, but Frank Bakke-Jensen. I challenged the Council of State on the issue of the European Parliament's examination of this strategy on 10 January. Then the council said that he did not know this strategy very well, and that he would not say so much whether it has evolved in a good or bad direction for Norway. Now there is a proposal on the table, with a total ban on oil and gas activities in Arctic areas. So I get to repeat my question from January: does the Council of State now think it has evolved in the right direction? The second question is: how does he intend to work to ensure that the European Parliament respects the opportunities we have to live in the northern regions to develop our societies and use the resources that are there to create communities where it is attractive to live in the future? Will the Council of State raise this, as our Nordic neighbours do, to get more pressure on it, and then how will he do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e134	When the question came from the representative, it was in connection with a big message about Nordic cooperation. It was probably what made him dissatisfied with the answer to another field. It is also true that when we say that it is important to be present in Brussels to tell about a living Arctic, it is also about us building a platform in that way, so that we can go against the decisions that come about a more conservative policy in the Arctic. We use our positions in all the meetings we have with politicians in the EU and in all the meetings with central politicians around the world. I must be allowed to admit that Northern Region policy has been a very good project for many years, but I believe that we show better to the EU and the rest of the world that the Arctic is active and pulsating. It is not a national park that can easily be peaced for other activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e139	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e144	It's nice to meet the State Council of Bakke-Jensen here in the spontaneous Question Time for the first time, not least on a theme that the Right and Christian People's Party have been discussing. After all, it was the Bondevik II government that launched a groundbreaking Northern Territory Communication in April 2005, Opportunities and Challenges in the North. Then it was the government of Stoltenberg II that followed up, and former Foreign Minister Gahr Støre, and we know that few days after the government change in 2013, the new Foreign Minister, Børge Brende, held an ambitious talk about the Northern Region Policy of Solberg-regeninga in Tromsø. There is broad agreement on the importance of the Nordic regions in Norwegian domestic and foreign policy, but perhaps the expectations that have been created are greater than what has really happened on the ground. Now I listened to the Council of State saying that he wants a Northern Region strategy. Does he also evaluate an own Storing Message to follow up on this? What does the Council of State mean by a Northern Region Strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e152	No, it's not a big message, but it's a north-eastern strategy, where we put together the policy we've been implementing – as the representative Hareide correctly says – the time of the Bondevik II government, where we went up the lines with why the Arctic becomes more relevant in a geopolitical context, where we went up the lines and visions of industrial development and new forms of industry in the north, and where we went up the lines in terms of the need for infrastructure. We put forward a strategy early in the period, where we worked together and turned our efforts around, because we believe it is important to show that policy – including domestic policy – is relevant to the Northern Region policy. These are bound together. We deliver a strategy during the spring, in which we take those ideas further – how we build a part of the country that is relevant to the Northern Region policy we agree to be Norway's policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e157	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e162	Strong presence in the north has been a central part not only of our Northern Region policy but also of defence policy. Since Vardøhu's fortress was built in 1307, which is our largest outpost in the northeast, Norway has focused on strong military and civil presence in the north. Today's government has taken decisions that clearly weaken defence powers in the north. On what seems to be an increasingly thinner basis, the government has shut down Andeya Air Station. On 28 January, the Andøy post could tell that a whole new airport in Bodø will cost a place between 4.5 and 5 billion. kr, while 1000 meters of asphalt on Andy Island have been calculated from the government's side to 3 billion. kr. At the same time, the government will take from the Army helicopter theirs. Helicopters provide the Army with mobility, and there's no other army that I know about, that's without a helicopter. For this reason, my question is: Does the Council of State think that the government's adopted long-term plan strengthens Norway's sovereignty and presence in the north, and strengthens the convergence of the Northern Region policy, which is the Council of State's responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e169	Finn markers have grown up in the shadow of the Iron Curtain. We have also had a policy for decades to defend Norway from Skibotn and south. The long-term plan now presented is the first one to take on board that we are to defend Norway from the Russian border and south, including all sea areas. I don't know if the representative thinks defense when she means defense. But the long-term plan now presented gives us the power of defense to do that task. That's why we're changing the defense so that they're able to take tasks in a new time. This is why we are changing the defence so that they can take tasks for the new areas, for the new Norway. We have six times as large sea areas now as what we had two long-term plans ago. That's why we're changing the defense so that there's a modern defense that can take the fight that might come. In terms of helicopters, we say the Army should have mobility – we just need to figure out what kind of helicopter a modern army needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e178	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e183	Back to the EU Parliament's commitment to having a petroleum-free zone in the north, in the Arctic: it is not an isolated initiative or an isolated opinion. Earlier this year, Canada has said no to petroleum activity north of Canada. The former Obama administration in the United States did the same in the north of Alaska – and you'll see what happens now with that decision. It is clear that this is a broad position, and a discussion that goes internationally. Then my question to the Norwegian government about it must also be that Norway sets a clearer limit on how far north you are willing to go with petroleum activity, just to meet such a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e190	I think the first thing we're going to do is put us clear ambitions to tell us that the Arctic is different. The Scandinavian Nordic part of the Arctic is a completely different part of the Arctic and the northern areas from Canada, than Alaska, than the northernmost parts of Russia. That's the first important part we're going to communicate. I honestly believe that we are good at extracting energy, and we should be able to be visionary and plan to extract energy in a safe way, even in the northern parts of our areas. As I've said in several of the speeches before, it's a political struggle to explain that this is a different part of the Arctic – here people live, here people work, here we study, here kids grow up, here people take education, here we create industry, here we create jobs. That's the job we have to do. Then I think we should take up the fight against those who initially want to preserve this part as a reserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e199	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e204	I'm also surprised that the Nordic regions are not prioritised in the presidency of the Nordic Council of Norway, especially because we are at a time when we really need allies in the north, and where raising sovereignty in the north is really important. The understanding of the Svalbard Treaty, updated by the Svalbard issue, between Norway and the European Union, is a major problem. Latvian fishermen have been denied access to these fisheries, and Norway has a different understanding of the Treaty from that of the EU. I just want to say that I fully support the government on the question of how to understand the Treaty. But the government has been passive, and now, as I understand it, Latvia to take this matter to court. So it's completely open what's going to happen. All of a sudden, we could be in danger of losing large Norwegian areas. My question to the Council of State is: How does the government work to ensure the best interests of Norway in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e209	If the representative of Knag Fylkesnes says that we do not mention the Svalbard Treaty and snow crabs in our programme of the Nordic Council of Ministers – this is about five countries that will cooperate, and where we are talking about a Nordic in transition, we are talking about a Nordic in Europe, and we are talking about a Nordic in the world – I honestly believe that then you are a little whimsy. I believe that there are important issues to be addressed when it comes to understanding the Svalbard Treaty, but it is not primarily in the Nordic Council of Ministers that we are going to work on it, other than that we are going to get alliances and an equal understanding in the North of that problem. As far as snow crabs are concerned, first of all, it's not the whole thing that's in my area, it's the other government councils that have it, but very briefly it's like we're a small country, we're in favour of the law of the sea, we're in favour of international law, and we can't just pick parts of this that we're in favour of and manage. We're going to be principled in these questions, even when other countries are trying to challenge the legal right we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e216	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e222	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who before Christmas got a new government colleague in the Oil and Energy Department. On 11 January we could read on the E24 that the new oil and energy minister wants consistency in vulnerable areas outside of Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja as soon as possible after the elections. We've heard that before. What was new, on the other hand, was that for Nordland VI, there was no need for an impact assessment, only a few additional assessments, since an impact assessment was carried out 25 years ago. Twenty-five years is a long time, and it seems that the environmental dimension of these vulnerable areas does not concern the oil and energy minister very much with such an opinion. When it comes to hydroelectric power, the new Minister for Oil and Energy has been in the spotlight. It is his responsibility, and on 31 January we could read at NRK.no that there were warning campaigns about protected watercourses, and that it was natural to take a discussion about how long the protection plans will last. The line of tissue was drawn as an example from the oil and energy minister, but he also believed that there were several protected watercourses that should be considered for power development. It seems again that environmental considerations are not considered very important. So my question to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is what his thoughts are about the political change I experience his colleague has made, when it concerns both the need for consistency and the time perspective we have to have on protection plans. Just having an eternal perspective on them is the very basis that we have a protective plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e231	I thank you for the question and for addressing issues that are of great importance, which we also have, to some extent, affected in the important cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. With regard to my new colleague in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, he has been very clear that the government is pursuing an active policy to achieve the climate goals. He's been very clear that people are contributing to climate change, and that we have to do something about it. There is no doubt that the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the Lofoten and the West Pole is firm. Then we also have to take on board that there are program processes going on in the political parties at the moment, and in those processes it must be allowed to have views. As far as protected watercourses are concerned, although it is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, I would like to stress that it is the government's policy that the protection plans for watercourses should be essentially fixed. We put this into the energy message we made last year. It has also joined the Storting. The protected watercourses form both individually and in total large natural and environmental values, and we want these values to be preserved for future generations as well. I believe that it is a good quality in policy and administration for many generations that we have managed to maintain a representative sample of protected Norwegian watercourses. We need power, but we are committed by the government to increasing the production of regulated power in Norway in ways other than by building hydroelectric power stations covered by the protection plan, by exploiting production more effectively in already regulated watercourses, by upgrading, and by extending existing power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e242	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment is so clear and has clearly seen his colleague in place when it comes to the fact that the protection plan is essentially firm. I think that's an important signal, and that notices us on Stortinget. On 5 January, the Minister of Oil and Energy also had a complaint that it was ‘unrealistic and unsustainable with a green shift without full speed ahead in the oil industry’. He called for “factuality and audacity” in the climate debate. There have been some discussions about what a green shift is, but I think this seems to be an unusual conclusion. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment agree that ‘full speed ahead in the oil industry’ is what is needed to close it with a green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e249	Let me first say that in the climate debate, as in other political debates, we should like to welcome facts and soberness. It's also that we can't turn back the oil taps. There is no one who wants to do it overnight. We know there's going to be a need for oil and gas for a long time to come. However, we also know that the petroleum industry needs to adapt to a gradual tightening of climate policy globally, in Europe and Norway and adapt to increasing competition from renewable alternatives to oil and gas. We see innovation in Norwegian business – also in the Norwegian industry, which has been and is heavy in oil and gas, and which is now also betting on new things – but that does not mean that there is no end to petroleum activities in Norway tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e254	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e259	In this room we've heard many laps around the Utsira Height, power from land to different oil platforms and in terms of getting an area solution. I just want to remind the Council of State that although a new State Council has arrived in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, he has to hold up pressure to ensure that it is implemented according to the goal of the Storting. In the last few days, a number of new findings have been made around the Loppa Height at the Johan Castberg field: the Alta/Gotha field, which is known and contains approx. 500 million barrels, and Philicudi, which were found on Monday, and which one guess could contain about 700 million barrels. We also know that Statoil is going to drill in the Kayak field, where you also believe that you're going to make new findings. What is interesting about this type of project is that if one is to succeed forcefully from land where it makes sense, it must be planned in good time. The Minister for Climate and Environment has an important job to do to ensure that there is a high pressure on it. My question is: does the Council of State work to ensure that such areas as the Loppa height may be relevant for electrification in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e270	I have not engaged in the question of the Loppa height so far. I'll take it with me. But I want to stress that electrification is a potential that we are going to take seriously, and how the follow-up to the Storting decision is naturally important. But we must also have cost-effectiveness as a key element of climate policy. Then we must also be clear that what we have brought into the oil and gas industry in Norway is the EU's quota system. This means that the Norwegian oil and gas industry – even when production is increasing – contributes to the achievement of its climate objectives by the EU and Europe. We're getting emissions down in Europe. We're going to be able to do that in 2020, that's going to be the case in 2030. It also means that we need to assess the investments made on the Norwegian cap for electrification, in view of the fact that the oil and gas sectors contribute to achieving the climate targets. There is a lot of exciting technology developments, including: in the case of wind turbines, which may also, in a slightly longer time horizon, carry bids for new electrification options.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e277	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e282	First of all, I am pleased that the Minister of Climate and Environment, to the degrees, cancels the efforts of the Minister of Oil and Energy to show the power of action and appear to be engaged on behalf of a field government, has done very little for three years. I think we should be happy about that too, because at the time that Tord Lien took office as Minister for Oil and Energy, he said that the Law on Natural Diversity was a law that prevented any development within, for example. the power sector and its dwindling in favour of the development of power lines. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change, in this way, rejects the possibility of the rapid start-up of Northern Ireland VI – an impact assessment is of course a natural way to go – that he rejects the fact that one should break into protective plans to regulate for hydropower, that he also determines that the Nature Diversity Act is firm, and that we should have a good record of environmental and nature considerations. I would just like to confirm once again that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change is turning around and guaranteeing that the management systems that have been chosen, in terms of nature, impact assessments and plans, will continue completely under the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e289	The management systems built up, both around Norwegian oil and gas activities and around Norwegian hydropower, have served us well. I can confirm that the decisions that were taken about the energy message last year are firm. We also say that in specific cases by significant societal benefits, for example. where measures may have a flood or aggravation effect and the environmental consequences are acceptable, it should be possible to allow for the concession treatment of hydropower plants in sheltered watercourses. So there are possibilities, but we have to primarily bet on upgrading and making better use of the production of hydropower rather than thinking about expanding new watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e294	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e300	And given the last answer, I'm going to come back to that. It's clear that some opening into Northland VI is completely out of date with the consensus that is with a majority on the civil side. In the case of protected watercourses, the Storting did not agree with what was provided in the Energy Communication. What the Storting was doing was tightening up what was being proposed, and pointing out quite specifically that the protection plan is a binding instruction adopted by the Storting, which means that no concession to hydropower is granted in sheltered watercourses. Nor is it the case that where there is a flood, one should be able to see more solutions to this problem; it is absolutely possible to consider it as a last resort when all other measures have been assessed and implemented. So my question to the Council of State is, when one has such a clear decision of big business, with the overall responsibility both for climate and the environment, what will the Council of State do to make the government speak with one voice so that we don't have this kind of discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e307	What I can do – and I've done that in that context – is be clear about what the government's policy is, and what are the leaders of the Greatness, and that's what I've been in this room here and now, and I've been in the media. The energy message we gave last year, and the treatment the Stortinget gave it, showed that there is a broad consensus on these things, and that is a consensus that the government is continuing in its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e312	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e317	When the Right Party and the Advance Party came into government in 2013, it was said that now everything would be so much more open than during the majority government they replaced. Negotiations on policy solutions would be moved from enclosed spaces into an open dialogue with the Stortinget. Right now the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left behind closed doors are sitting here in the house and will decide which municipalities and county councils are to coerce. Secret negotiations take place not only at Stortinget, but also between party traps around the country, as I understand it. My question to the Council of State Sanner is: In this context, it would be interesting for Stortingen to know whether there are professional criteria on the basis of this work, and in that case what professional criteria the four parties work after when deciding who is to be coerced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e324	If the representative allows, I might say that she starts at a bit wrong end. If we look at the local reform so far, it's a success. The class struggle wrote a little over a year ago that there were about seven municipalities that had voluntary agreements, now there are almost 100. I am pleased that there are 25 central party-driven municipalities, i.e. one of four central party-driven municipalities, who want to build a stronger municipality for the future. I think that's good, and it shows that local politicians from all parties across the country take responsibility, and they do because they want to create equivalent services to the people where they live. The experience with municipal mergers so far is that it slows down population decline or leads to population growth in municipalities that have been struggling with fewer people, and it shows that you are strengthening services, and that is why we are implementing a community reform. Now there has been a broad process in all municipalities, and so far, as I said, almost 100 municipalities have voluntary agreements. The size has said that the reform will be based on voluntary action, but that exceptions can be made in specific cases. Then, of course, the parties that have cooperated on the community reform, talks, it should just be missing. It would be a lot worse if you hadn't talked to each other. There are four parties that have been behind the municipal reform – the Workers' Party also from and to – and it is clear that those parties need to talk. I must also, as the Council of State, take care to anchor the proposals I make, which I will submit to the Grand Duchy before Easter. Then Stortinget will have the opportunity to have an open, democratic debate before the decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e331	The reality is that the municipal reform and regional reform are now being decided in secret negotiations between the government parties and the supporting parties. Why else would they sit and negotiate? Then it's interesting for the public to know what kind of professional criteria these four parties are working on. As far as regional reform is concerned, Stavanger Aftenblad had a case this weekend where they believe to know that Rogaland and More and Romesdal will continue as their own counties. At the same time, we see that, for example: Upland and Hedmark are proposed forcibly combined. Following the notification of the newspaper, the conclusions are strongly influenced by the position of merging of the local party tops in the Right and the Advance Party. Is it such that one should continue as his own state in the counties where the Right Party and the Advance Party are locally opposed to aggregation, while other states must be coerced together? Or is it that there will be no coercion in the regional reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e336	Once again, it would have been very unnatural about the parties that were behind the municipal reform, not talking to each other. It would have been very unnatural if, as the Council of State, I did not anchor the proposals I am going to make to the Stortinget. When the proposition is ready, it is put before the Storting and there will be an open debate here before any decision is taken. It might have been interesting to know a little bit about how this went on under the red-green government, i.e. We have read about this in various books that have come in recent years. Of course, we build on the local decisions that have been made, the local processes. The people have made a good, thorough and professional assessment. We have never had a better professional basis for a community reform than what we have now. And so it's that the parties discuss between themselves, I file a case for Stortinget, and then the Stortinget gets the opportunity to discuss it after Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e341	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e346	So the parties that boasted that it was about to become such an open debate are sitting in a secret room somewhere and making a deal that determines the future of Kommune-Norway. Voluntary processes should be respectfully respected, and they should be respected both ways, but what we are now talking about is which municipalities and counties are to coerce, and there seems to be a kind of political horse trade between the four parties. Then it is not so strange that we ask: what are the professional criteria on which a person, for example, is based? Mr Rogaland and Mr More and Mr Romsdal are now at peace because the Right and Advance Party in Rogaland and Mr More and Mr Romsdal are against convergence, while one forces other regions together? It is also not so strange if we ask why the head of the district council in Akershus Progress Party says in newspaper on 3 February that she has convinced the head of the municipal committee, of the Progress Party, that the municipal structure in Upper Rome should be maintained as it is today, because the Progress Party wants it. It must then be allowed to ask: is it this kind of agreement between the Progress Party locally and centrally that is the technical criteria on which coercion is based?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e351	This article does show that there is no secret space, but rather that there is an open discussion both in the media and in political Norway. I think that is good, because both the local reform and the regional reform are important, and I will once again pay tribute to the many centre party rapporteurs who have done a very good job in the context of the community reform. There are 17 municipalities with central party rapporteurs who have now entered into voluntary agreements. They do, of course, because they are busy with their citizens, and because they are busy with good services. Of course, we build on the leadership that Stortinget has given in terms of volunteering, but also in terms of the possibility of exemption in very special situations. It may be if two municipalities have agreed to each other, but have a municipality between themselves. Then it is natural that Stortinget takes a discussion about cutting through. As far as regional reform is concerned, the Stortinget itself has said that we should have about ten regions, and the Stortinget has never said that regional reform should be based on pure volunteering. There, the Storting House has the full opportunity to decide which states will merge in larger regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e358	Helga Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e364	I note that the municipal minister will not respond to how he relates to the professional basis that lies on the part of the county councillors. The Labour Party is for changes in the municipal and county structure, but we believe that this should be done on a voluntary basis. It also meant the municipal minister in the autumn of 2013. At that time he was referred in the following way in the journal: ‘A map shall not be drawn up in the municipal minister’s office, claims Sanner, who denies that the government will use coercion to merge municipalities.’ Now we can read in the paper that the municipal minister will nevertheless use coercion, and that he is just sitting and drawing maps – if not in the office, so at least in some back room – and that is about 10–15 coercive mergers. This is the Working Party disagreed with, and it has fallen right hard for the chest. In the VG, we have, among other things, read that the party trap of the Council of State states that ‘the working party will reverse reforms aimed at increasing the sustainability of the welfare state and arming Norway for the future’. In a situation of 130 000 unemployed –
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e376	Time's up. You have to get to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e381	Yes. Does the Council agree that coercion is between the sustainability and collapse of the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e386	Interestingly, that question comes from the representative Helga Pedersen, a representative who himself has called for a map to be drawn and put down a commission if there are not enough voluntary mergers. It's been a few years, but since then, the Workers' Party has meant almost anything that can be said in terms of community reform. A few weeks ago, we talked about it being reversed, you talk about it being a volunteer. And then I register that in the new program, for the next growing-up period, you talk mainly about volunteering. It is not possible to understand what the Workers' Party really believes in this case. I believe that local politicians need national politicians who honor them, who help them, who support them. I note that many Labour Party rapporteurs lack central support from the Labour Party. I'm going to give it to them. Then I can confirm that no map is drawn in the municipal minister's office. The rapporteurs and local politicians themselves are creating the new municipality of Norway, and it is the Stortinget that has to take decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e393	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e398	Clearly, the municipal minister and the government are very happy in coercion and very happy in large units almost cost what it will cost. But I think people are wondering what this should be good for. One is a regional reform with no content, i.e. fewer tasks – something big that no one knows what to use for. The second is the municipal sector. I record that the minister was out a few weeks ago crying crocodile tears for the elderly and warned that there is so bad about the care of the elderly in the municipalities, and that large municipalities are likely to be the solution to that too. But care for the elderly is about having an economy, prioritizing it as a matter of value. It's not old people who are too expensive, it's Right's policy that is deeply unfair. Or is it that Sanner will coerce old people to become more rational and effective, as Right Likes?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e405	I think we should all be willing to see ten years ahead in time and see what challenges both small and large municipalities face. What we see is that some places are becoming more and more economically active behind each pensioner. Municipalities with three to four working-age communities will experience two working-age groups and some down to one working-age group. I think that's a challenge. Just because our older people deserve good and worthwhile care for the elderly, because we are engaged in equivalent services across the country, we also provide strong growth in the local economy. It should be a paradox for the Socialist Left Party that the municipal economy has increased more under the bourgeois government than when the SV and the Central Party cooperated with the Workers' Party. Good community economy, more local democracy and stronger trade unions are important to ensure good and dignified care for the elderly not only today but also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e412	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e417	This I thought was a strange round. There are few reforms in the public sector that have been the subject of such openness, as far anchoring and as much democratic participation as the local reform. But I'm sure that if the Center Party comes to power in the fall, they'll probably stand up in an open room together with their possible associates and announce that we're now setting four years back. For those of us who are busy looking a little bit ahead, I'll ask the Council a question. I agree that the local reform has been a success and that it has produced good results. At the same time, there are still many areas in the country where we could well get stronger construction and labour market areas. Not least, there is still a great need to move more tasks and authority down to the local level. So how does the Council of State see that the local government reform and the processes that belong to it, may continue for the next major period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e424	It probably depends a little bit on who's in government, because what we hear from the Center Party and partly from the Workers' Party is that they're going to reverse. If there is something our local politicians and all the employees in the municipalities do not need, there is uncertainty about whether the decisions will actually stand firm. I agree that we are far from being on target. The fact that almost a hundred municipalities have voluntarily joined forces to build stronger welfare municipalities for the future is good. But we still see that there are many municipalities that have too vulnerable professional environments. There is still a need to strengthen municipalities in order to ensure good welfare. And so is it that the Left, in cooperation with the government, is now moving more government jobs into our country. I'm glad. It also contributes to the creation of stronger environments of competence. We've already moved a lot more than the Center Party was able to do together with the Workers' Party in the last government period, and there are now more. It contributes to strong environments of competence throughout Norway. It strengthens District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e433	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e439	My question goes to the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen. A sick goosebump whale that had to be killed on Sotra, and as it turned out had over 30 plastic bags of different sizes in its stomach, has caused many to get their eyes up for the huge problem of marine littering and plastic in the world's oceans. 800 million tons of plastic trash goes into the oceans every year. In 2025 it is estimated that there will be one tonne of plastic for every three tons of fish in the world. By 2050 it is estimated that there will be more plastic than fish in the world oceans measured in kilograms. 80 pst. the seabirds have plastic in them. Around one million seabirds die as a direct cause of plastic every year, and there are also countless whales and other sea mammals dying from plastic. During this growing period, we have started some work. There was nothing on marine litter four years ago. This year we spend 35 million. to clean-up measures, for measures to enable fishing boats to have their garbage delivered to them by means of their tools. This year we are launching the collection of retired boats. We have adopted decisions prohibiting microplastics in cosmetics, and it is an action plan against microplastics. The problem is huge. It needs international efforts, national efforts and local action, and each has to do its own thing to clean up, reduce production and consumption and prevent waste finally entering the seas. So my question to the Council of State is: how does the Council of State look at the strategy we are going to adopt, and does he have new measures on a list of measures to limit the consumption of plastics and to avoid getting plastics as waste in the world's oceans?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e454	It's quite right, as the representative Elvesuen says, that plastic smelting is a serious problem. This is probably the fastest growing international environmental problem of our time. It is a problem that is also accelerating by climate change. The more extreme the weather, the more rain and the more flood we get, the more plastic is flushed into the sea. Because plastic from countries is the main challenge. There is a lack of national waste systems, not least in the large emerging economies, which have had a huge welfare and wealth growth over the last 10–15 years, but without good national waste systems in place. That's where the main challenge lies. That means our lead is international. We took the initiative in 2015 for an international investigation of the problem. It came to the table in 2016 at the UN Environment Assembly. There we took the initiative to further investigate the need for strengthened and more binding international legislation. It comes up to treatment internationally at the end of the year. Then we are also busy playing into relevant EU processes. The EU is now developing a plastic strategy. Much of what comes to the Norwegian coast and Norwegian waters is plastic from the EU area. We're busy doing a job here at home. In this context, the Directorate for the Environment has provided action assessments both against marine pollution and against microplastics with a number of proposals for different measures. There are measures that we are now considering, not least because during the spring we are going to promote a big message about waste, waste policy and the circular economy. In this context, we aim to present a plastic strategy, which will take this into account in its full and full scope. Just because there is a complex question, there is not enough single action against individual sources. We have to look at the whole thing of this, and not least we have to see it in a circular economic thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e465	I thank you for the answer, and I expect more proposals for concrete action also come from the government, so that what we are actually doing is not just a result of negotiations and initiatives from the Storting. It is clear that this issue requires international agreements and international efforts – as we have seen in the past, among others. when we fought ozone gaps and weakened ozone layers, which were a crisis, and now at the efforts we see to limit climate change. Some decisions have already been made, and we need to follow them up. Among other things, the EU has adopted a directive to reduce the use of plastic bags from 100 billion a year today to 20 billion in 2025. In Norwegian terms, there will be a reduction from 200 to 40 plastic bags per year per capita. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: How does this proceed in the future in the Norwegian government, and what will we do about measures to follow up this directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e474	There have been plastic bag discussions in this room before, and that will be enough. We are now working on the follow-up to the EU directive. There is no doubt that this is EEA-relevant. It will be implemented in Norwegian law, and we are concerned that we should do this in an efficient and cost-effective way. Last year I took the initiative with industry actors – packaging producers, the waste industry, the retail trade – to get their input into how they think this can best be done in Norway so that we can find a solution that is effective. Plastic bags in Norway actually play an important role in waste management itself. We throw our garbage into bags, so plastic bags are not a major source of plastic pollution in Norway. But we are going to implement this directive, and we are coming back with proposals for not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e483	It opens for follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e488	In connection with the construction of Ryfast, a lot of plastic has been dumped in the sea. People who live along the coast go and pick carrier bag after carrier bag with plastic. The birds build rows of plastic instead of seaweed. Now we're going to start the construction of Rogfast, and the county council in Rogaland has been very clear that no plastic emissions related to dumping of fillers will be accepted. The road service has protested against this. They think it is absolutely necessary to use plastic firing lines, and that this will not cause very local problems because this should sink to the bottom. My question is whether the minister believes that it is okay that the big community thus dumps large amounts of plastic in the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e495	I must be allowed to stress that plastic pollution and its extent are a topic that has come very close to the wind and has received increasing attention in recent years – also because the increase in the scale of the problem has been strong in recent years. This means that in some areas we also have in Norway a practice that is neither sustainable nor sustainable and that we have to liquidate. An example of this is the type of practice referred to here. Then we also need to find solutions, and we need to give ourselves the time needed to identify and put in place alternative solutions. But it is clear that when plastics are used for the necessary purposes, one must ensure that there are systems to prevent them from finding their way into nature, and especially into the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e500	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e505	Thank you to the Left for a good question and to the Minister for Good Answers. This is an environmental problem where it is very easy to agree with both the problem description and the analysis. So the challenge is to get something done about it. That's right, as the minister says, the most important thing is done internationally. This is an effort that all countries need to make, but not least a large port such as Norway. My question is what we can do here at home in Norway. A year ago, the majority decided that we should ask for an action plan against microplastics. It was emphasised in the debate in Stortinget that there was very impatient here, precisely because there was a package of measures from the Environment Directorate. Now I understand that it is going to come in the waste notification that comes in the spring. At least there are expectations from the Workers' Party. The majority also made an explicit decision that the government should make proposals with a view to banning microplastics in body care products, as the Americans have now done with effect from 1 January 2017. My question to the Minister is: Where is there the proposal for a ban on microplastics in body care products?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e514	As I stressed in a previous answer, this is a comprehensive and complex problem, and there are many sources. Microplastics are one theme; larger plastic smelting becomes over time to microplastic challenges if not cleaned up, because it lies and is gnawed by stones, sand and salt water on the beaches. Then we have direct sources of microplastic pollution. In terms of what is the largest source from Norway, it is actually wear from car tyres. Another big source is paint, and another big source is fleece jackets, which I expect are more here that make us guilty of using. Cosmetics are also an area, but there is a relatively limited area in the main context. Therefore, I believe that we should see a possible ban on microplastics in cosmetic products in the overall plastic plan that we come with in connection with the landfill notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e519	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e525	In a letter to the Environment Directorate dated 22 December 2016, the Norwegian Environmental Protection Association is organising a large-scale project for the clearing of plastics in world oceans and along the Norwegian coast. The NMF considers that the available capacity of parts of the Norwegian seagoing fleet, inter alia: offshore vessels placed in warehouses can be easily adapted to requests for the cleaning of plastics in coastal areas. In an interview with NRK Møre and Romsdal two days ago, the management of the Havila Shipping offshore division confirmed that their simple-grip ships could be prepared for such coastal clearing operations. Havila has already entered into cooperation with the Clean Coast AS company in Vanylven on the collection of plastic waste and other environmental waste along the Norwegian coast by means of a larger offshore vessel. Does the State Council see the win-win potential of such a model of cooperation in putting in place effective measures to combat plastic smuggling while at the same time providing ship and crew missions in a crisis-capped part of the Norwegian seagoing fleet? And will the Council of State ensure that sufficient resources are made available to develop and expand such a concept?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e530	In the budgets and in the budgetary conciliation, we have increased the appropriations for clean-up. The main effort being made there today is the enormous voluntary effort being made to clear Norwegian beaches. The grant scheme has more than doubled in the year’s budget. Then we have also taken annually from the Fisheries Directorate to clean up lost fishing gears, we have the project ‘Fishing for Litter’, where fishing boats can deliver waste they pick up, as much is going on. But we also see – and I think that is very good – a number of initiatives now on how to use existing vessels to contribute to this clearing. There are many different initiatives, and I will not comment on this single initiative here. It's important that we get some time to see what has the greatest potential, but it's very good that that kind of initiative comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e535	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e540	It is an important issue, which has to be dealt with internationally, but there is also a great willingness in the Grand Duchy to deal with these kinds of issues and to make decisions. As several of the speakers have pointed out, decisions have already been made in the Stortinget that we are waiting for the government to follow up. Then I understand that the Council of State is pushing all concrete questions about follow-up decisions to the waste notification and an action plan against plastic waste disposal. The problem is that as far as I know, the waste notification was notified in June. If the waste notification is submitted in June, it will not be dealt with by Stortinget. As this is the last session before a major choice, that message will be drawn three weeks after it has been submitted. That, I think, is a sad way to deal with the Greatness, and also to deal with the follow-up to the important decisions that Stortinget has already made because we want to contribute in the future. The question is: Is it possible for the Council of State to present this communication earlier, so that the size actually receives it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e549	I'm willing to watch that. I have also stated that individual measures should not be excluded before the message itself. But it is important to see these things in their entirety, because there are many different sources, and there are many measures here that can address different sources together, while there are some measures that will be targeted at individual challenges. Circular economy is an important part of the answer. This is not just a question of cleaning, it is not just a question of ban; it is also a question of how to ensure that the plastic produced is better and more sustainable, that we have reusables that are good, and that we put the plastic strategy into a circular economy approach. Then we will come up with plastic bag measures – probably before this message. It may also be that other measures could be promoted before that, but it is important to see the whole of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e554	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e559	When I hear Vidar Helgesen talking about plastic, it's kind of like when I hear him talking about climate – we're the best in the world and the worst in Norway. It's like the government's line. I want to go back again to talk about exactly what was taken up earlier, and which the Council of State did not respond to, namely, the following: the state road system has soiled and invaded the rogaland fjords with large amounts of plastic in recent years. The plastic has been dumped on the sea in connection with the Ryfast road development. Recently, we've seen what plastic wasteland is doing with life in the ocean. Birds, fish and other animals easily confuse the plastic with food. We remember the whale outside Sotra that had plastic bags in its stomach and died of starvation, and the pictures of fish with plastic and seabird with plastic that are still coming out. The State Road Service has now begun to prepare for the Rogfast development, another major road development, and the State Road Administration in Rogaland has called on the State Road Administration not to dump more plastic in the sea – we already have enough. There shall be no plastic waste in the bursting mass to be used for filling, in the sea, and the resulting plastic shall be collected. But this requirement has therefore been appealed to the Directorate for the Environment, Vidar Helgesen's Directorate. ‘Some environmental disadvantages are not to be avoided’, says the Road Administration of the NRK. I don't think this is okay. Does Vidar Helgesen think this is okay? In the report of the Environment Directorate, which was sent to the Ministry of Climate and Environment on 6 June last year, they concluded that plastic waste from the construction industry is a significant source of plastic waste in the sea. Therefore, I ask Vidar Helgesen again to answer the following questions: Will he ensure that we do not repeat the solid plastic container from the Ryfast extension, and ensure that the ban on dumping plastic waste from Rogfast is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e572	On a previous question, I answered, but if the representative Eidsvoll Holmås does not remember it, I will repeat it: it is important to find alternatives to the use of plastics where possible, and that where you have to use plastics, make sure that it does not flow into the sea areas. This applies in general. It should also apply in this case, but here it is, I understand, a complaint case, and then it must be allowed to go its own way. So it's very misleading to present it as taking international initiatives almost to avoid doing anything at home. Norway has very good national waste systems. The Directorate-General for the Environment itself says that, for example: plastic bags are not a significant environmental problem from Norwegian sources. There is a significant problem in Norwegian waters, but the plastic bags come mostly from elsewhere. This is no excuse not to trade. We come up with measures to reduce plastic bags use, but there are a number of other sources that need to be assessed, and these are not quite simple questions. Deck wear is the biggest source, and rubber cullet from artificial grass courts – I'm going to have a meeting with the Football Association next week on this issue – paint and textiles. The Environment Directorate has proposed a number of measures in these areas, and we are working on them. Then it's also important to work with the larger plastic products. The grant scheme for discarded recreational boats, which we are now working on, is such a measure. There are a number of other measures, and seeing this as a whole is extremely important in order to avoid making individual actions that can work effectively on symbolism but that do not necessarily have the effect they should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e581	It is good if it is possible to understand the Council of State where what he is doing is to send a clear signal to the Directorate of the Environment that the plastic should be collected. But we'll have to wait and see what it's like for the Environment Directorate to decide on that complaint. The plastic is a big problem. I understand – because nothing has happened to the Storting about these things, and the whole big message about this is delayed – that the Council of State is pulling its legs in terms of national efforts to do something about Norwegian plastic emissions. One of the measures proposed by the Environment Directorate is that municipalities should be given the opportunity and authority to remedy congestion. So that's what the whole mass mass, except for the government parts, has said we're going to have to have it in place. What part of this charge on the possibilities for municipalities is the government against, and when will it be possible for municipalities to fine plastic waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e588	We're working on that matter. We have consulted a proposal that municipalities should be able to impose charges for the collection of plastics in general areas, for example: That's what we're working on and coming back with in less than a long time. Once again, it is important that the policy is linked here. We're talking about a social problem that we've learned a lot about in the last few years. As was said by the representative Elvesuen earlier, the previous government had no commitment to this, and it could be because there was no great awareness of it. We have taken international leadership, and we are working very systematically with actions that work in Norway, and will present them when they are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e593	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e599	There is a need for many measures, as the Council of State says, but when it comes to bringing them to the Grand Council so that we can adopt them, it now seems that we will not have them until it is too late for this process to take a decision. Now I hear the Council of State says that he will bring something in soon. Then I ask quite specifically: is it about the fact that the municipalities – where we now see people are very active and are involved in clearing – need to have an economic seam to finance the cleaning that they don't get people volunteering to do, and that they should be able to both fine them and have the opportunity to finance cleaning through the renovation fee? Is it one of the proposals that could come to Stortinget, so that we get time to deal with it and the opportunity to do it? And is it so that the government now has the opportunity to present the proposals on the circular economy, at a time when we can make the necessary decisions in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e606	The question of having a refurbishment fee related to the supply of, for example: recreational areas have been consulted and answers can be expected quite soon. A number of other measures lie in the Environment DG’s action assessment against marine pollution. It is partly about the possibility for municipalities to adopt fines, but it is also about a number of other measures. I believe that it is not appropriate to impose individual measures after individual measures without seeing them in the context. One of the proposals made by the Environment Directorate, for example, is the introduction of a producer responsibility scheme. It may be a good idea, but it's an idea with many implications. This means that this needs to be thoroughly investigated and evaluated. We work under pressure because it is a serious problem. But the problem is not solved by inconsistent individual measures, we have to see the whole thing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e613	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e618	The question goes to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, and it is actually about plastic. This is because a nebb whale was so lovable to die in full publicity on the Norwegian coast with the stomach full of plastic, which has made us aware of what has been a huge problem for very many years, but as we now understand, a problem is completely in line with the climate noise – because the marine ecosystem is going to have a larger plastic problem before the plastic problem gets smaller again, as the feed continues to increase and the degradation of plastics into microplastics entering the ecosystem will continue. Therefore, action is urgently needed. That's also why I asked the Minister for Fisheries last week about his actions to save Norwegian seafood from the consequences of being infected with microplastics. He forwarded that question to the Minister for the Environment, who forwarded it to the Minister for Health, who did not have the whole world to answer. It was perhaps symptomatic of the fact that little practical has been done by the government. But one thing is quite obvious: if we're to stop the plastic pollution, we have to stop the plastic pollution, and that is to release zero plastic. Will the Minister for Climate Change go in order to base zero emissions of plastics and promote measures that ensure zero emissions of plastics, in the action plan against plastic pollution that he is presenting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e627	I think we should have the ambition that we should have zero emissions of plastic from Norway and Norwegian sources. It will not help us if we do not make a great deal of international effort to put in place both the necessary regulations, the necessary measures and not least cooperation to strengthen national waste systems and international clean-up measures. Finding alternatives to plastics is a significant area of research and industrial development, and there is a lot of exciting happening. But plastic is an important product, we're all using it, and let me give you one concrete example that plastic is useful: plastic helps food to stay longer. Food waste is already a major problem today, and it can get bigger if you do not replace today’s plastic with solutions that also take good care of the food. If food waste had been a country, it would have been the third largest source of greenhouse gas emissions. That's the extent of the food loss problem, and some of it has to do with the packaging. So that's an example to show that replacing plastic with other materials is important, and the example shows that we have to use plastic in some areas, and then we also have to make sure that the waste systems catch it up. Of course, our ambition must be that we should not have plastic waste to the sea from Norwegian sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e634	I thank you for your answer. There is probably little disagreement that plastic is useful. It is quite typical for all major pollutants that they are useful to something, and then they turn out to be dangerous. Then, with some apprehension, I have to say that the Council of State will not confirm that the end of plastic smelting is a measure of this government. I'm going to go in for, from the Green Party, in the election campaign, to get a government in place that will actually stop polluting with plastic. But the Green Party has proposed in Stortinget that Norway should take the initiative of an international Convention for the regulation of plastics, and everything I hear from the Council of State builds up under this very thing. The Council of State has also stated that consideration should be given to the development of a legally binding global agreement to combat marine pollution and microplastics because Norway is to lead in the fight against the plastic sample, but the party of the Council of State voted against our proposal. Has the government now turned its attention to the Greens' proposals for an international convention to regulate plastic pollution?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e643	There was every reason to vote against the Environment Party's proposal on this, because we are running an international process where Norway is in the driver's seat, which can lead us there, but an international convention cannot therefore be adopted in Norway. We have worked systematically, first by getting a large international report documenting the problem for all the countries of the world, which was dealt with at the UN Environment Assembly last year. It provided the basis for us to make proposals to assess whether existing international rules are adequate. We got a pass on that. It was not an easy matter to get 170 countries involved in the assessment of new international legislation. The Obama administration was already sceptical about this proposal, because it doesn't necessarily appear in the United States that new international conventions are a good idea – it's possible that there might be an even heavier burden to go with the new administration in the United States – but at least we got an impact on that investigation. This means that we work systematically and build momentum and connect to greater attention and more effective action against plastic waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e648	It opens for follow-up questions – first Steinar Reiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e653	I want to give the Council of State a boost both for active work to be done on measures to prevent plastic pollution along the coast, and for measures to be implemented. The Councils of State mentioned inter alia: the grant scheme for the disposal of recreational craft as one example. Then we might have one of the most important schemes, the grant scheme for action against marine pollution. I understand that the Council of State cannot comment on specific individual projects that I was involved with in my previous follow-up question, but it is still obvious that, for example, clearing an offshore vessel for this type of operation will be costly. We have to assume that the attention given to plastic waste will lead to increased activity by volunteers, and we have to assume that the delivery of plastic waste for incineration or recovery will significantly increase with the effective way of cleaning waste as an example. now will try out in More and Romesdal. The overall framework for the grant scheme for action against marine litter was 15 million. kr in 2016. Will the Council of State take the necessary steps to ensure that the overall framework is extended if it becomes apparent that increasing attention to the problem and new concepts make it necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e658	I think this is an area where we need to be prepared for a significant increase in resource use in the years to come, because it is a significant growing problem. We've doubled the grant scheme for voluntary clean-up this year. We have been awarded a grant scheme for discarded pleasure boats. The Minister of Fisheries and I just announced that we are expanding the Fishing For Litter system with a new reception facility at Karmøy, where fishing boats can deliver waste. As both technologies and methods of plastic collection evolve, there is every reason to look at the further development of support schemes. Here both authorities, manufacturers and businesses must be involved and take responsibility. It's e.g. a major challenge for Norwegian marine nutrition potential for the presence of microplastic bits in food. It's been found in blueshell along the Swedish coast, it's been found in sardines outside Japan. If you find your fleece jacket in the salmon fillet, it is not the good advertising for Norwegian seafood. We have to get hold of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e663	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e669	My question goes to the Minister of State. As you know, municipalities are responsible for many of our most important services to the population — kindergarten, school, health care and care for the elderly. It is in particular in the care of the elderly that we have to make sure that the municipalities are rusted for the day of their lives in a few years. More and more active older people are a major resource for society, but we also need to ensure that municipalities can develop older people’s care with both places, technology that allows more people to live at home longer, enough employees and the right skills. The municipal minister himself has been concerned with the elderly tree, we shall believe a play in the nations a few weeks ago. But although we can agree with a lot of the description of reality, we probably disagree on how to meet the challenges. For the Workers' Party, strengthening the local economy is very central. Before Christmas, we were presented with KS’s budget survey for the municipalities. The study shows that in almost half of the country’s municipalities, budgetary work is more demanding in 2017 than it was in 2016. Under this government, it is becoming increasingly demanding to provide good services to the local population, and this is happening, paradoxically, in a situation where oil money is high in record terms. We are also surprised that the government in 2017 cuts into the grant scheme for nursing homes and nursing homes. The municipalities plan places like never before, but the government does not – it cuts the commitment framework to the House Bank equivalent to 700 places, which is a decrease of almost 30 p.m. Then my question is: why does the government not prioritize upgrading the municipalities for the future and enable them to expand the care of the elderly, both with places, with technology and with competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e682	The government strengthens the municipalities, and we provide good and dignified care for the elderly, both today and for the future. I agree with Mr Pedersen's main point, namely that we must bet on competence. This is why we strengthen the competence of the elderly care system. I agree that we must bet on technology. This is why we are facilitating the increased use of welfare technologies in municipalities. I agree that strengthening the local economy is necessary and appropriate. That's what this government is doing. I have sent an answer to the Workers' Party, which documents that the growth of the local economy has been greater during this government than it was when the Workers' Party ruled together with SV and the Center Party. Per capita, the growth of the municipal economy over the eight years of the Workers' Party was down, 0.6 pst. average. Under this government it has been 1.3. Then I realize that for many municipalities that is not enough. You still have to give priority to creating space for the most important thing. I want to give recognition and praise to municipal politicians who show both the ability and the willingness to make modern, good and flexible solutions for their elderly. Today’s elderly people need a flexible offer. It is right to provide good home care, but also for more specialised care for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e691	The use of figures by the Minister of Local Affairs is of very little help to those who are out there and have the task of preparing the care of the elderly for the future. We see that the growth in employment in municipalities is almost halved under this government, and that happens despite the fact that we have 130 000 unemployed in the country, and that the needs of the elderly care and the municipalities are increasing. We also see that for a large number of municipalities, the municipal scheme for 2017 is not even enough to cover the wage and price increase. The point here is that the government doesn't put up with the money and the tools needed to meet the older wave. In a situation of record unemployment, with record oil spending and very high demands in the care of the elderly, the government chooses to cut in the Husbanken framework to build care homes, and priority is given to 20 billion. kr in tax cuts rather than equiping municipalities for the future. Why is tax cuts more important than care for the elderly for this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e696	Parental care is the most important thing. Investing in good welfare for our citizens is most important. In addition, we have strengthened both the local economy and the health budgets – yes, in fact, health cows have fallen, and waiting times have become shorter during this government. It was the opposite that happened when the Workers' Party crashed. Then we're also dedicated to facilitating jobs and value creation. We need to create values to be able to focus more on well-being in the years to come. Then I notice that the representative Helga Pedersen warns against using numbers. But who was it that traveled all over Norway in 2013 with horrors about what would happen if there was a new bourgeois government? Well, that was exactly the representative Helga Pedersen. The horrors of the representative, Helga Pedersen, have been put to shame by this government. The representative was, among other things: in Finnmark and told how many millions of Finnmark municipalities would lose with the Right in government. That's the opposite that happened. It was cut under the red-green. There has been growth with civil government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e703	It opens for one follow-up question – from Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e708	I think the Council of State can compare the Workers' Party 2017 with the Government 2017 and not the Government after 2013 with the Workers' Party before 2013. It won't be directly comparable. I note that neither does the Council of State Sanner want to run from the fact that the allocations of the Right Party Government to the municipalities have a direct impact on the quality of care for the elderly. I was also one of those who traveled around the country before the elections in 2013 with figures from the Sanner State Council's own department, which showed that 14 out of 21 municipalities in Buskerud would get less money with the Right than with the Workers' Party, among others. to care for the elderly. That's when the Right said, quite right, that it was scare propaganda, but the reality got worse. The County now shows that a total of 17 out of 21 municipalities in Buskerud have been cut into free revenues in 2017. All twelve municipalities get a real decline in total income, and Lower Eiker is one of them. They can't afford to build a nursing home. I wonder what the Council of State really has to say to the elderly in the Lower Eiker who don't get the care and the security they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e715	The representative asked me that question earlier. I have great respect for local politicians who every day work to make the budgets go up. I know how demanding it is, and it must be given priority in Kommune-Norway. But in fact, the local economy has grown more with the Right Party and the Advance Party in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left than it did in the eight years when the red-greens sat with the government power. The working party in the opposition always has more money. The Labour Party always has more money for the most part, and at the same time they criticize the government for spending too much money. I think we have to make sure that the municipalities have a good and predictable local economy. We must also invest, as the representative Helga Pedersen was in, in competence, competent staff who can provide safe care for the elderly. Then we see that many municipalities, including the Lower Eiker, are now equipping themselves for the future and making sure you get a larger municipality, so that you get stronger professional environments that can provide citizens with good welfare services even in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e722	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e736	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be raised by the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn. Question 11, from the representative Kåre Simensen to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has departed, Question 13, from the representative Else-May Botten of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has left. Question 14, from the representative of Terje Aasland to the Minister for Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment, who will address him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e756	This question, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be raised by the representative Sveinung Rotevatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e761	‘The Council of State recently received a report from Vista Analysis, which shows that the split economy will continue to account for approx. 500 million. SEK 40 billion in 2015. kroner in 2025. The sharing economy may also lead to many of the services currently provided, among others. the municipalities may be provided with lower costs and better quality. This presupposes the provision of increased foundations for municipal tasks such as health and care services. Will the Council of State be a propellor or brake for such a development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e768	In the coming years, oil revenue will fall, and health and care expenditure will rise. Citizens also expect greater freedom of choice and more custom-made services. This challenge requires innovation and founding. I therefore agree with the representative that there needs to be new thinking and that we need to be drivers of new solutions that can increase freedom of choice, higher quality and lower costs. The sharing economy can provide new opportunities. It can provide better services for consumers, and it can promote productivity and innovation. At the same time, there may be regulatory and labour market challenges. The government is committed to finding the right balance between taking into account socially important values and opening up innovation. The Vista Analysis report provides us with more background information, more knowledge. In addition, the government has set up a sample to look at the sharing economy. This sample submitted its investigation on 6 February and is to be sent to the hearing. We will now review the assessments in the investigation and the recordings that come through the hearing. The government wants to support entrepreneurs. A short time ago, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and I, together with several government councils, attended a useful meeting with a number of entrepreneurs to hear more about the challenges and opportunities. Many municipalities today involve voluntary, non-profit and private actors in developing good services for the population. I believe that we can further support this work, and have among other things. developed guides and inspirational staff for municipalities wishing to cooperate with volunteers or wishing to offer user choices in the municipal services. We will also publish a booklet for municipalities that want to cooperate with social entrepreneurs in a short time. I would like to stress that the municipalities themselves are responsible for the organisation of municipal tasks, but we can make good provision for it to be used by both volunteers, non-profits and individuals to create better services for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e787	I thank you for your answer. It's good that the council says he wants to be a driver, and this idea booklet that it's being shown to, sounds like a good idea. Then it is obvious that the sharing economy brings some challenges, but also new opportunities. The challenge is that many people are concerned about — the Council of State, including some of them. I am most busy seeing opportunities, including opportunities in the sector for which the Council of State is responsible. I also read the report of this selection to the government, to which it is referred, so that it places the highest emphasis on the possibilities. So the question is, what kind of tasks can you imagine that are being carried out today, which can create room for new business. I think it's possible to imagine a development where at least some home help services can be supplemented or replaced by different sharing model solutions, for example. providers of food, cleaning, transportation, etc. Does the Council agree that this could be the area and services that are relevant to what we are now talking about? And does he see any other area where the sharing economy can play a useful role in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e796	I totally agree that we're going to look for the possibilities, and that's enough of those who are busy drawing scares of what's going on. At the same time, of course, we must be committed to safeguarding employees' rights and also to securing tax revenue to the public. But I fully agree that care for the elderly is an area where new opportunities open up. I know a municipality that now uses a tablet to shop groceries. Among other things, it does. that home help does not take 30 minutes to go to the store, but that the elderly and the home help together can go through what is to be done, and then the food is brought home to the elderly who need it. This is an example of how home help can also get more time for others and more time for those for whom you are responsible. I am convinced that new technology can provide more dignity and security for the elderly, and it will also help us to provide more care for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e803	I thank you again for your answer and for a good example. In this issue-based report, from Vista Analysis, emphasis is placed on the fact that public regulation can be one of the major uncertainties of the extent of the sharing economy in the future – the more regulation, the less the rule is. The most current issue we are facing is the legality of services that are regulated to a greater or lesser extent, for example. transport services and overnight stays. But my starting point for the question is to see what consequences a larger sharing economy can have on foundations and new jobs within municipal tasks. And then today's issue is the Council of State sees legislation, legal requirements, etc. who can stand in the way of developing a greater deficiency, without having to go in with it to neither strengthen nor remove them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e812	There are certainly many examples of this, because today's legislation and the laws of today are adapted to a slightly different time. That is why it is important that we, as politicians, should understand what is happening, and we now see that technological developments are progressing faster and wider than in the past. Who had believed 10–15 years ago that there was a digital platform to challenge the taxi industry or the hotel industry? We see that this creates challenges, but I also see that there are many possibilities in it. We also review several areas of legislation, in order to adapt the legislation to a digital future. An area for which I am responsible is plan and construction, and when we are about to have a digital platform for building applications, it is clear that the entire regulatory framework also needs to be adapted to allow it to be automated and digitised. That means that the changes in the rules also have to follow the technological developments we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e822	‘The Right Party and Advance Party Government talk a lot about the need for conversion into Norwegian business, but the results are not available. Almost no jobs are created in the private sector. In the past, regional development funds have been an important instrument for the county councils in their role as regional development actors, including regional development actors. in Buskerud, but the Right and Advance Party have consistently chosen to cut these funds. Does the Council have an overview of the impact of this cut policy on the development of new jobs in Buskerud?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e829	In a time that requires the conversion and better use of resources, the government prioritises more of the efforts where we know it works. We spend more resources on measures such as broad sections of business demand: better roads, increased investment in innovation and research and lower taxes. The focus on transport, tax relief, differentiated employer charges, good growth in the local economy, health services, education, research and innovation is of great importance for good regional development and regional balance. The grant to county roads has increased by 1.3 billion. kr for the period 2013 – 2017. This increase is just 830 million. kr greater than the reduction in regional development funds during the period. In addition, strong growth in total transport investment comes from the Ministry of Transport budget. Buskerud gets 28.8 million. kr in regional development funds in 2017. This is a slight increase from 2016, but yes, it means a cut of 10 million. kr from 2013. But in the same period, the framework for upgrading and renewal of county roads in Buskerud has increased by 78 million. $68 million. kr more than cut from regional development funds. During this ageing period, Buskerud has received a total budget for upgrading and renewal of the county road network of 276 million. DKK and total allocation to regional development funds of 119 million. kr. Just a few days ago, a good news came that has positive ring-effects for Kongsberg and Buskerud. The Government has entered into strategic cooperation with Germany on the acquisition of submarines. Germany confirms that they will acquire missiles from the Norwegian industry. This will help secure Norwegian jobs for a long time in the future, both in Kongsberg and with a number of subcontractors. Naval Strike Missile, NSM, is a Norwegian-produced cruise missile from Kongsberg Defence Systems. The value of future sales of NSM to Germany alone could reach 10 billion. kr. The representative asks what impact government policies have had on the development of new jobs in Buskerud. The rate of re-establishment has increased after the government change. The rate of establishment is the number of newly established enterprises in one year divided by the number of enterprises on 1 January of that year. While the average for Buskerud in the period 2010 to 2013 was 12.3 pst., it went up to an average of 13.0 pst. for the period 2014 to 2015. If we see the country as a whole, there's been an even stronger growth in the start-up after the government change. Buskerud also has a lower unemployment rate than the national average.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e842	It was strange to hear the state council talk so much about county roads when the issue concerned regional development funds. But to get to that end, mountain-region cooperation is a political network for municipalities, regional councils and county councils in South Norway, where Buskerud is also involved, and mountain-region cooperation has been very clear in its feedback to the government. They are concerned about what they call a clear centralisation of national mechanisms with restrictions on the possibility of local and regional adaptations, and they ask the Right and the Advance Party to increase, not weaken, regional development funds. They also say that it is proposed that large sums should go to physical infrastructure such as county roads. The mountain network is very curious about this type of rotation of instruments. The fact that there are similarities between relatively small but important means of development and maintenance and investment in county roads is hardly understandable, says the Mountain Network. Why does the Right have so little confidence in what local and regional elected representatives say about the situation in its area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e847	The representative’s question concerned the number of newly established enterprises and jobs. When I travel around Norway — and I travel a lot — companies rarely take up the need for more regional development funds, but very often there is a need for better roads, both national and county roads. When you're in government, you have to give priority. We've chosen to give priority to county roads. This means that we have shifted some funds from regional development funds to a strong increase to the county roads. I showed in my post that Buskerud has received a small increase in regional development funds for 2017 and has seen a strong increase in the appropriations for county roads in recent years. In the case of mountain bet appropriations, it has continued at the same level, namely 10 million. kr per year – as it was when the red-greens were put in government. In addition, we liberalise so that there is more room for land management and bet in the mountain regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e852	Once again, I am amazed at the distance between what is said from the centre and what is said from local and regional levels in the field of industrial development. It seems that the government has problems in recognising that there are a lot of resources, values and knowledge scattered all over the country that together should be allowed to contribute to the national transformation we need. When Buskerud County points out cut to 20 p.m. in regional development funds, they say that even more important is in fact the rotation that has taken place in the use of the remaining funds. There has also been a loss of opportunity to continue the valuable, well-functioning cooperation between Buskerud and the municipalities – for the development of the community and jobs in all parts of the county. Does the Right believe that what is said by professionals and politicians in Buskerud about the negative development is true? If so, will the Council consider listening to them and reverse cuts in regional development funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e857	Again, the starting point of the question was about jobs. I showed that there has been an increase in the rate of start-up both nationally and in Busherud after the government change. The demand for businesses and jobs is better roads, and it also prioritises this government. Then it is that Busherud County can re-prioritize on its own budget. Bushyards and county councils have also grown in their budgets under this government, and if it is felt locally and regionally that regional development funds are the most important means to invest in, it is fully possible for Buskerud's own politicians to prioritise it. It is not that everything must come from the state and that everything must be controlled by the state in detail. There is room for local and regional politicians to give priority to what is considered to be the best thing at local and regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e867	«New Release Bridge at riksvej 706 in Trondheim is part of the Environmental Package and is assumed to be partly toll-financed. Development will solve a significant traffic challenge in and around Trondheim. The environmental package will foreshadow construction, but the State Road Service has cut its feet down after the adoption of a new NTP by the Stortinget, which means the postponement of the new bridge for several years. Can the Council of State guarantee that a new Release Bridge is part of a new NTP so that the Environmental Package can forge the construction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e874	I believe that the representative, Mr Tung, is really so driven by politics that she knows that we cannot forge anything in a big message that has not yet been dealt with, nor has it been presented. But what I can promise is that there will be more roads and more railways in this country in the years to come than what we've seen in the past. We're going to make sure that a greater proportion of government budgets are directed towards infrastructure. So the chance that several road projects are realized also in Trondheim has never been greater than with today's government. Then it's a little strange to hear that a project can be postponed for many years, with the argument that it's a couple of months before NTP is presented. There is no harmony in the fact that something is being postponed for many years just because the Storting is going to make the decisions now, before the summer. The decisions must be taken by the Storting, and the representative tongue and everyone else in the Storting will be allowed to participate and influence the order, scope and content of the national transport plan. But it's going to be built more than ever. The escape bridge should have been built a long time ago, many would say, but it was never prioritised under the previous government. It has clearly approached the construction start with today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e881	The Sluppen–Stavne section is a project in the current NTP, which was adopted under the Red-Green Government, and is thus a priority project for the Workers' Party. It is the State Road Administration in Central Norway that will expect cash to conclude contracts for further design and construction until the adoption of the national transport plan. And the last signed check, it's the state council that is the top head of the state road service, and also has the opportunity to give the state road service the opportunity to tell the Environment package that the bridge can be forged. Now I hear the Council of State won't guarantee the future of the bridge. It seems to me very bad that he will not, for this is the largest bottleneck in Trondheim and has been for many, many years. Is it the case that the government is once again turning its attention to local and regional priorities and that the release of the bridge has now been sent far into the future and will not be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e886	I think one should be a working party politician to be able to conclude like that from what I said, because what I said was that we're going to present this in a short time. Then Stortinget will make the priorities and the decisions, and then it's completely unnatural that I enjoy a document that you haven't even adopted. There's something else to say that we're planning to push out, and that's not the same thing as saying that we're planning to adopt it now. This is simply the way the national transport plan is handled. I thought that was a representative that Tung knew, who himself has been in a party that, until recently, has presented two national transport plans. So it's a little interesting to hear that this project, which they didn't even put forward in the first period, should now supposedly be ready for construction in line with the decisions we had. No, those leaders were not there from the Workers' Party, and I remember that the Workers' Party helped to subfinance its own national transport plan as soon as it was presented. Today's government had to increase road appropriations by over 1 billion. kr to ensure that there was good progress on many projects, but the release of the bridge was not of the projects that were prioritised by the Workers' Party in order to get started now. We are not even done with the regulation plan locally, so there is no reason to say that one could bet on everything a did now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e893	According to the briefing provided by the Environmental Package to the politicians in Trondheim and the Statens vägvesen – also given by the Statens vägvesen – the Statens vägvesen states that it is not the regulatory plan that has been delayed, but the Statens vägvesen itself will wait to conclude contracts, precisely because of the lack of signals related to NTP. So it's interesting that the Council of State is more concerned about talking about the representative tongue than talking about the Sluppen Bridge. But to talk about the Sluppen bridge, of course, it's a challenge for the Sluppen-Stavne project, as in many other road projects, that the costs of the project increase. The cost in the project has gone from 565 million. NOK 935 million. kr. Then I wonder: What does the State Council do to ensure that the costs of the project can be reduced, but that the quality is maintained at a level similar to that of the project now under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e900	With the risk of repeating myself, I point out that until NTP is presented, we do not comment on any confirmatory or confirmatory road projects. So even though I suspect that the representative tongue is now planning to go out and bring so-called leakages, there are no leaks. What I have stressed in my answer is that there will be more money to build a road than ever before. This means that all road projects will be able to be realized more closely. But the representative Tung himself points to some factors here, namely that costs have increased. Such things have to be handled. I remind you that the regulatory plan is not yet completed. It is a little strange for the representative Heavy to claim that a road project is being delayed for many years when the regulatory plan has not yet been adopted, and for NTP to be adopted long before the regulatory plan is ready. Then there is no link between the criticism and the facts in the matter. We've done a lot to try and get control of cost growth. Among other things, we have created New Roads, which go into many projects critically to see how costs can go down. I record that the Labour Party has largely protested and voted against all our proposals to reduce costs, while they are now asking in Stortinget for lower costs. It's not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e912	‘Previously, the practice was that new timetables on flight tender routes were sent to the hearing before they were finally decided. In the case of new scheduled air services contracts in Nord-Trøndelag and Nord-Norway in force from 1 January 2017, the government withdrew from this practice. What was the background to this change in practice, and does the Council of State still think this is wise, in view of all the dissatisfaction with the new timetables?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e919	There has been a good process of launching the FOT routes both in South Norway and in North Norway. South Norway had exactly the same borders as North Norway. I did not register that the Workers' Party thought it was problematic then, but I record that the Workers' Party has had a different strategy to blackmail the situation in North Norway. We have also seen that in internal e-mails from workers' party people, urging others that now everyone must go out and criticize the government. I can get a copy, if you like. I don't think it's a constructive way to provide the best possible flight offer in the districts. We are spending more money now than in 2013 on maintaining the FOT route offer. There are more flight departures and movements at the 30 smallest aerodromes today than it was when the Workers' Party crashed. But making sure that we get the best possible route offer in the future is not about the ministry being involved in the hearing after Mr. Onøe has presented his schedule, since it was Onøe as usual. We believe it would have been much better with direct contact between those who are going to use the flight routes, and those who are going to deliver them. That is exactly what has happened, instead of having a hearing where the state is going to be an intermediary, we have encouraged everyone to have direct contact with Onions. We see that the results have come. I do not experience the same criticism now as before – simply because, through the recordings they have received, I have also changed the schedule. Onions came to us and said that the department also had to change something in the orders we had, in order that Onøe would be able to deliver an even better offer than what they had in their first draft. There we made the changes that Reøe wanted, and then we see that there will be even more departures than the Unøe first sketched. We're getting pretty much all of the challenges that a point of view is facing, and so I really think that the up-to-date way of conducting the hearing, that is, directly against Onlooke, has worked a lot better than it has been in the past. It must be the result that counts, not that there should be bureaucrats involved in all processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e928	The answer was as expected. I perceive the answer to your question that this is the fault of the Workers' Party. But people – not us in the Labour Party – are actually cursed and frustrated by the proposals that have been made, and I ask for that to be respected. We in the Workers' Party are elected by people, and we aim this further to the Department and others who are involved in decision-making. You've closed your ears to listen to people. That's what I think is politically poor craftsmanship, and that's a bit why the question is raised today. The fact that there is good contact between them – it is not at all, precisely because of the frustration and curse of those who are going to travel. So it hasn't become much better flight routes, on the contrary, there's still worse connections in many areas. Among other things, Saturdays are almost completely free from aircraft in North Norway, at least in Finnmark. Also then there is a need to travel, but that opportunity has been removed through the process that has now been. So then saying that this is good, I think it's bad craftsmanship, to say it right out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e933	Let me try to take the tirads in turn and order. I pointed out that the Workers' Party has had a campaign internally in its party to make as much dissatisfaction as possible around the flight assignment. I have seen a copy of an e-mail that was sent out between the Workers' Party's biggest representatives. Out and blaming the government was the message. And then I say that I don't think it's constructive. If you believe that Onkøe can deliver a better flight offer, you have to contact Onkøe, who actually sets up the routes. We have had clear demands on how this should work. It worked very well in South Norway, and there I have not registered that the Workers' Party has launched such a campaign. There's been more dissatisfaction in North Norway. What's the point, is that when Onkøe made his first route proposal, there were many negative feedbacks, but a lot of this is adjusted. Then my question is back to the representative: What routes are these now that he thinks are not good enough, compared to the changes that Mr. Onoee has proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e940	I can start with the Saturday routes. From what I've seen in the new table, there are two departures in all of Finnmark: one for Alta and one for Hammerfest. And there's actually a need to travel internally in the county on Saturdays. One can imagine, based on the weather: if it is bad and one has come to Alta, which is a regular airfield, on a Friday and the flight offer is closed, then one must sit and wait until far out on Sunday before the next flight leaves. We're good at waiting -- that's true enough, and we're just getting better -- but I think it's pretty interesting to hear from the Council of State, that like all the time this is being introduced to the dissatisfaction of the Workers' Party. It's actually people's dissatisfaction, and I think that respect, by listening to people, is totally absent from the Council of State today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e945	I have traveled more in Finnmark than most Ministers of Transport before me just to listen to people. I have traveled so much in North Norway that the Transport Council in Troms thought I should be more in Oslo. That I thought was a pretty interesting comment when I drove the E10 for a while back. But it's precisely the round that has been between Remo and the actors, that has been important. Then you talk directly to the supplier. It's obvious that the representative Simensen hasn't got that round, but that's where he should channel his energy, because they're the ones who deliver this. Onøe has a minimum order, and it is basically the same as when the Workers' Party crashed. And then, onions have had some offers in addition to the minimum order, but there have been changes. Some places there are many more departures now than before. In other places it's fewer, simply because there haven't been enough passengers to defend it. But the minimum requirements are essentially the same. And then you have to go to those who provide the service, and say that here's an offer that Onderøe could get many travelers, but that they don't cover today. And then we know that Onkøe would provide more services, because they are busy making money and having passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e955	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘A number of areas in Norway are still without broadband coverage, and in my home municipality there are several people who feel that mobile coverage is almost absent. This prevents the establishment of both dwellings and businesses and contributes to centralisation. The government's ambitions in this area appear to be considerably lower than those expressed in the previous period by the batches which are now the government during the previous period. What are the plans made by the Council of State for modern forms of communication to be used throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e964	The development of digital forms of communication is incredibly important, and this government has had a very offensive strategy for it. If the representative Aasrud did not get it, a big message was presented, by the Ministry of Local Affairs, just to look at the use of digital tools in the public sector, but also to develop the infrastructure to support this. It would also have given us even better coverage in regions and districts. It's a little strange to hear the claim that we have a lower ambition than the previous government. I'd like to hear what ambition the previous government expressed, and we're going to compare it to that of today's government, so I hope she gets back to the follow-up question. Our goal is to have a good digital coverage across the country. It is important to be able to ensure that business is established throughout the country, that people find it attractive to live, that one gets everything from colleges to kindergartens and kindergartens that can connect digitally and make sure that one works as part of the entire community, because more and more of our businesses and more of our tasks are happening just digitally. It's a little strange to hear the claim – yes, it's true that in many places it's not good enough, but very many places it's considerably better than it was before, and nowhere has it gotten worse. In terms of coverage of 100 megabytes of fiber, e.g., it has gone up from 63 pst. Coverage to 78 pst. Coverage of connection over 100 megabytes in four years. If you think it's too bad today, the starting point was even worse, and the growth is now much better than it has been. This indicates that things are going in the right direction, even if we're not in the right direction. In the case of the home state of Aasrud, it's an area that was really in reverse under the previous government, but where the growth rate is much higher now, and where one is actually resuming the national average. Although I can agree that things are not good enough, we see that there has never been a basis for being more optimistic than now in terms of getting a good coverage there as well. When, for example: for 4G coverage, the coverage was in Uppland 9 pst. in 2013, and it is 91 pst. in 2016. There are no figures that indicate that Uppland has been deprived in any way. On the contrary, there are figures that indicate that Uppland was not a priority until 2013, while one has now really seen that development is going well. I have great sympathy – if I can use that word – with those who sit and have not experienced the coverage that the neighbor has today, which is neither connected to 4G nor on fiber. But just because we're doing the job we're doing, a growth that's far better than what it's been before. For this reason, the possibilities of achieving this are faster with today's majority in the Grand Duchy than with the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e979	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm counting on him to be very happy with the 10 million. kr that the Stoltenberg Government granted in 2013 in Uppland in order to increase its coverage there. It is in stark contrast to the 56 000 kroner that have arrived this year. In addition, there was the possibility of using the regional development funds that we have just heard that the municipal minister has said is cut. It's good that something happens in Uppland too. These are areas in Gran and Jevnaker municipalities, located right next to the E16, which do not even have mobile coverage. My question is: is the Council of State concerned that it is involved in preventing settlement in municipalities like ours, and what will the Council of State do about it in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e986	It's possible I spoke for too long, so some of the main arguments disappeared in the amount of other good arguments. But yes, we're busy with this. That's what I tried to have as my main goal of communicating, and that the strengthening of both fibre and mobile coverage is much better now than it was before. If it was that one had a very strong stake under the previous government, and it has disappeared completely under the current government, at least I could have understood the arguments of the representative Aasrud. I remember that in the period 2011–2013 Uppland received 18.6 million. kr for fibre development. In the years 2014–2016, a three-year period, they have received 26.7 million. NOK and thus an increase of 30-40 pst. in appropriations from the state for this, while we have made it more interesting for the commercial companies to invest in this. It's right that it's 9 pst. of the county that does not yet have 4G coverage, but it is 91 pst. Which has it – as opposed to when Aasrud was the Council of State, when it was 9 p.m. which had coverage, and 91 pst. who didn't, so the chance of a good mobile coverage is much better now, and increasingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e991	I wish the Council of State could join in a little visit to some of those who experience not even being able to use their mobile phone daily in such central areas as what we live in, so I would like to invite the Council of State to take a trip to meet some of the people who are out there and cannot use mobile communications like others. A final question to the Council of State Solvik-Olsen. In the first budget presented, the money for broadband was cut considerably, and then the Council of State stated that state resources cover cost-effective excavation rules. Does the Council of State continue to agree that state resources cover cost-effective digging rules, and what has the Council of State done to change the rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e998	I'll take it in turn here, too. Yes, I'd like to meet people who live along the roads in Norway. I can say with my hands on my heart that I have driven the E6 from Svinesund to Kirkenes, and I have driven the E16 from end to end just to experience how the mobile coverage is, how people living along the roads have it, and how the transport industry has it. I think I've talked to many of these already. But that's absolutely right: the representative Aasrud can take me to people who have poor mobile coverage, but the point is that there are only a tenth of the people who have poor mobile coverage now, as then Aasrud himself put in government. That's a sign that we're dealing with the challenges, even if we're not on target. If I had said that now we've done enough, now we're not doing more, I would have understood the criticism, but when we point out that we've done more than the representative that Aasrud got, I don't think the criticism is equally justified. But I'm not going to rest on my laurels, I'm going to make sure we keep working. So I also remember the number I just gave: we're giving more money in broadband support to Uppland now than Aasrud's own government did – 18.6 versus 26.2, and 26 is greater than 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1008	‘Businesses with fewer than five employees are charged with billions of dollars each year in the cost of reporting public forms and following up legislation. In most areas, they have to deal with the same laws and regulations and respond to the same tasks as larger enterprises, but they spend relatively more of their time in this work than large enterprises at the expense of value creation and innovation. Will the Council of State take the initiative in strong and targeted simplification work aimed at the smallest enterprises?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1015	From the time we joined, the government has given priority to and strengthened the simplification work, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. Large-scale studies have been carried out under the auspices of both the Altinn and the Reviser Association, which show that much time is saved through digitisation of forms and that simplifications over time are noticed for small enterprises. Some important measures have been implemented: we have introduced simplified self-declaration for traders with simple conditions. Any reportable change in the life of a limited liability company — from start-up to liquidation — can now be carried out electronically. We have simplified public procurement legislation to make it easier for SMEs to participate in this market, and in the future we are committed to digitising the public tender phase. A number of simplifications have been made in the bookkeeping legislation, and especially small enterprises without their own accountant benefit from this. The reporting of wages and salaries, employers' taxes and tax deductions is now done monthly in one electronic form instead of in five forms with different deadlines for several levels. Reporting to the Statistical Centre has been reduced by a 40 pst reduction in the sample of small enterprises in the statistics. Follow-up to long-term health practitioners has been made less burdensome by removing reporting requirements and unnecessary dialogue meetings. The management of VAT on imports has been simplified, tax rules for professional cars have been simplified, and tax rules for eco-services have also been applied. Since the fall of 2013, we have carried out 66 simplification measures, which are estimated to be a saving for business of about 10 %. 7 B.C.E. kr per year. As far as far as the representative Farstad is concerned, the regulatory requirements are often the same for small enterprises as too large, but the smallest enterprises have relatively highest administrative costs. But then it also follows that simplifications have the greatest impact on the SME segment. In the list of simplification measures, we hardly find anyone specifically targeted at large enterprises. It's the small businesses that benefit most from the simplifications. On the government side, we continue to give priority to simplifications, and in this spring, we come up with proposals for simplifications in both the Accounting Act and the Share Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1026	I thank you for your answer. Both the government's political platform and the Council of State here respond are good measures that the Left naturally supports. I just want to stress that a simpler everyday life for business in general and for entrepreneurs and small businesses in particular was just one of the main reasons why the Left wanted to change government in 2013. But we're impatient. Governments have mentioned good measures that the Left absolutely supports, but we lack a little more speed in the work here. That's why the follow-up question is from me: what makes us think that the government will now keep a greater pace to deliver in these areas? It's in action. The government has a majority with the Left in the Biggest in all of these cases, so we have the power to do something if the government really has ambitions for greater speed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1033	In the case of the low-hanging fruits that received great attention when the simplification work started, it is not the speed and the power of action it stands on, but perhaps the visibility of the small and large measures. I think the companies notice this. I think to the extent that it is very good that you are impatient, and we have to stand on, we have to deliver. We need to provide lists to show which measures have been implemented and what cost savings this is for business. We're going to deliver it by the end of the year. We promised 15 billion. kr in savings at the end of this year, and I am optimistic enough to believe that we will do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1038	I thank you again for the answer, although I am still not convinced of the pace, of the power of action, of the real will to move forward quickly here. I would like to mention an example of what we have done together with the government, and that is the establishment of a Norwegian regulatory board, according to the Swedish success model. In Sweden, the work of the Board of Regulators has resulted in several billions of dollars in saved costs for unnecessary regulation and reporting for Swedish business. This is because the government has been responsive to the Council’s decisions and needs. I have to say, the Norwegian government seems much less eager. For example, the government proposed to cut the allocation to the Board of Governors by nearly 20 pst. during their full year of operation. So in practice, the government says that simplification is not a priority in this area. Why is not the Board of Regulators and simplification a priority for the government – simplification linked to the Board of Regulators?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1045	I totally disagree with the premises. The government is extremely concerned with simplification, and we carry out simplifications – 66 simplifications and 7 billion. kr in savings since we joined. There is a considerable amount of work going on every single day in many departments. As far as the Board of Regulators is concerned, it is not right that we cut in their first year of operation. The whole point was that they were not in operation all year long. They were established, and I am grateful for the cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party to set up a Board of Rules. I think that as important as removing rules and regulations is to make sure that we do not introduce new burdens. I have great faith in the work of the Board of Regulators. We have set up a very competent secretariat and a very competent board of the Board of Regulators. I had a recent meeting with them, and I look forward to looking at the results of their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1055	‘An area where there is a great difference between women and men in Norway is the founding and start-up of new enterprises. Fresh data from the SSB show that about two out of three new individual enterprises and four out of five new limited liability companies were started by men in 2015. There are several reasons for this, including: bad social arrangements. Another reason is that it is difficult to establish private enterprises in typical women's homes such as health and care. Will the Council of State take the initiative to facilitate increased start-ups in the health and care sectors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1062	I could do this by simply replying: Yes, we have taken and we are taking the initiative to facilitate increased entrepreneurial activity – also in the health and care sector and also for women. As the representative points out, there are too few women in Norway who choose to become entrepreneurs, and there are also too few men who choose to become entrepreneurs. At all, we need more good entrepreneurs – of both sexes – who create tomorrow's jobs. To convert Norway, we need to use all our good human resources, and we do something about that. I believe that no government has given the foundership greater attention, and in very good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party this has also been followed up in annual budgets. We've implemented tax cuts that promote growth, we've made it easier to start and run a business, we've simplified billions in costs for businesses, we've put forward a business plan, and we've strengthened schemes that help entrepreneurs start and grow. In 2017 we granted 3 billion. kr more for industrial research and innovation than in 2013, including the tax FUNN scheme deductions, and a high share goes to just start-up projects. These are important steps that take the whole of business. They benefit entrepreneurs, women and the health sector. So we know that many women work in health care. This is why we have strengthened research and development contracts in Innovation Norway for projects in the health and care sector. We have also introduced a new procurement legislation from this new year, making it easier for small businesses to participate in public procurement. Stavanger Municipality is now using the new innovation partnership procedure, in cooperation with, among others. Innovation Norway, to develop new solutions in the health sector. We have launched the Growth Programme to promote more promising female entrepreneurs and other groups that are underrepresented among Norwegian entrepreneurs. It is a scheme that is now being rolled out of Innovation Norway. We also continue to invest in entrepreneurship among women and girls, for example. in the field of Young Entrepreneurship. And we also continue to highlight positive role models. We do that because we know that role models have an infectious effect on career choices. We will continue the important work of getting more entrepreneurs and, not least, contributing to the renewal of business, both with a strong grip and with more targeted measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1077	Thanks to the Council of State for a thorough response and for presenting a number of measures that the government, with the support of the Left, has received. When I meet entrepreneurs in the health and care sector, they point to SkattenFUNN and Innovation Norway’s instrumentation as being particularly important for keeping their heads above water in a difficult start-up phase. But I am also concerned with the competence of local authorities in acquisitions. Although one has raised the threshold for public acquisitions and the bid requirement from 0.5 million. NOK to SEK 1.1 million. kr, there is still some of the requirements that a party imposes and the processes in which it acquires them. Innovative public acquisitions have been a programme under the auspices of the NHO and the KS, and there we saw that there were many health acquisitions. Equally full, this is characterised by a public sector that has its routine work to do, but what will the Council of State do in particular to strengthen its competence – to create and contribute to more female health entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1084	I'm very pleased with the question. The public procurement legislation that came into force in the new year, with new regulations, is very important for us to gain knowledge of. Divi is now using a lot of resources to contribute to knowledge in municipalities, in the counties and in the state. I am sending a letter today to all public purchasers, where I draw attention to the new legislation, and I encourage myself to be involved in it. We need legislation that promotes the environment, promotes apprentices, and promotes innovation. But then you have to use the code and the good space for action that's there. Then we have to make sure that the buyers are not more concerned with the process than with what they are going to buy. I have a very good hope that we will see the results of this, but it requires that we do enough on the offer page to contribute to the training in the legislation. I also have good contact with KS about this and have asked for feedback from them with rice and roses related to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1095	Thank you for that. My next follow-up question is related to the clustering programme in Innovation Norway, where, among other things: The left was able to negotiate 10 million. kr for health to be included in the cluster programme. I'm curious if the Council of State has any further ambitions for that cluster program – 10 million. kr is not too much. Then we see that women are in the process of dominating the research and development sector also in the health sector in Norway. We have a lot of knowledge to contribute to, but we also see that some are concerned with women entrepreneurs, who may be a little bit more careful, don't take so much risk and are concerned about having an environment around them. In the clusters, many people are asking for a bet, that it gives an opportunity for both small clusters and too large clusters, but it requires a little networking. Can the Council of State say anything about about 10 million? kr is the right level, or does she have a little more ambition for clustering in health in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1106	I am very pleased with the opportunities to get a proper health cluster in place – I am at all very optimistic when I see how it grows different health-related businesses. There are a lot of entrepreneurs in this field now, and I think there'll be more. We spend a lot of resources on health in this country, but we have too few businesses, we have too few entrepreneurs, we have too few jobs associated with this field. We have the cluster project, along with the fact that we are now doing our best to continue Oslo Cancer Cluster – they are helping to continue their important work. We have also established a new scholarship scheme aimed at master students. We know that there are most women of them. They can now get 1 million. rather than looking for a regular job. I think we're going to have the whole set of tools that will help us to see the effect. But we know that even in the health sector things take time – and it may take longer for this sector than for others to produce viable companies. So I think our challenge is to make the companies grow here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1118	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘It has been proposed to stimulate the increased use of biofuels in road traffic over the years to come. The justification is reduced greenhouse gas emissions. However, in the case of local harmful air pollution, in particular NO 2, biofuels can generate emissions in line with diesel. In Oslo and other cities, NO 2 has been a main reason for many days with red warnings of harmful air in winter, and Norway has been previously convicted in ESA for this. How does the Council of State consider that increased use of biofuels will affect local pollution of NO 2 in cities in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1136	About one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions originate from transport. Biofuels can be part of the solution to convert the transport sector into lower emissions – please note if they are sustainably produced. At the same time, it is important to improve local air quality and to take into account the effects of biofuel use on the local environment. When using biofuels instead of fossil fuels, the exhaust emissions of the vehicles are changed. The changes in emissions depend on many factors, including the emission class of the vehicle, the incorporation rate, the type of biofuels, driving conditions, engine settings and exhaust cleaning, as well as weather conditions and climatic conditions. In connection with the stepping up to 5.5 pst. the turnover of biofuels from 2015 onwards, the Environment Directorate carried out an impact assessment of that proposal. In this context, the impact on local air quality was assessed by the Norwegian Institute for Air Research and the Institute for Public Health. In this work it was not seen that the increase in interference at that time would bring about significant changes in the emissions from the transport sector. Biodiesel reduces overall emissions of particulate matter and some other components, but increases emissions of NO x. While overall emission of particulate matter is reduced, some research results suggest that the toxicity of particulate matter is increasing. There may be differences between different types of biodiesel. At the same time, the studies carried out stress the need for more research in this area. For the bioethanol research results, they are cracking. The escalation at this time is relatively significant, and the conclusion of the investigations carried out at the previous ramp-up plan is limited to less than 10 pst. I therefore believe that an in-depth study of the effects on local air quality of the escalation that has now been adopted is very important as a basis for decision-making for further policy-making, as far as possible. The Environment Directorate will carry out a new impact assessment during the spring of 2017, prior to the regulatory fixing of the escalation plan. I would like to stress that it is important to emphasise the importance of local air quality in the further investment of biofuels in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1154	I say thank you very much for an interesting answer from the Council of State, which shows commitment to this question. The councils are probably aware that so far this year in Oslo we have had 23 days of red alerts, one of the main reasons being NO2. I don't remember the last time there were so many warnings during such a short period as from November until now in February, so it's a serious situation with regard to NO2. What I'm afraid is that we can fool ourselves a little bit by investing so much in the introduction of biofuels into the heavy transport industry in particular, where it is more difficult to find emission-free car models, vehicles, that we can use biofuels to phase in, that it becomes an environmentally friendly solution. Then the emissions of NO 2, for which the transport industry has a large part of the responsibility, will remain at an equal level in the years to come. I'd like to ask the Council of State if he agrees with the danger that it might be a sleeping cushion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1172	In the large picture, it is my hope that biofuels will be a transitional phenomenon in road traffic, and that electrification and hydrogen – not only in the passenger car market but also in the goods transport market and in heavy transport – will be so promising and of such high capacity and price that it can be the bearer. There is also much to be done about air pollution challenges, although car tires and sweaters are also going to be a consequence of electric car traffic. I am concerned that the changes we are now facing, the plan of escalation that we are now facing, are to be examined in a consistent manner, and it is to be sent to public hearings before we implement it in a regulation. If the impact assessment shows that the increased interference results in significant changes in local air quality, the impact should be assessed. I don't want to speculate about it right now. In addition, we are working on many different other measures aimed at improving local air quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1179	I thank you for the additional reply. Although the parallel is not complete, I'm a little concerned that we can get a similar development to the one we saw after the stimulation of diesel in 2007-2008, as local NO 2 emissions increased sharply. It's not going to be completely parallel, but here I'm afraid you could almost delay the introduction of the emission-free models and the low-emission models in the particular transport industry, because you choose to bet on biofuels in the years to come, so there's going to be a delay in the technological development that the Council of State also stresses is the most desirable. I am pleased with what the Council of State says about impact assessment, that he sees the seriousness of the local pollution perspective. It will also be important for us to be able to comply with the requirements of the ESA Court of Justice to Norway. I would like to ask when the Council of State sees for itself that these impact assessments will be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1193	This is a stepping-up plan, which is due to run until 2020 in the first place, and it is a first step-up already this year. We are working on impact assessment in ours, and it is the Environment Directorate that is responsible for it. We focus on it being implemented in ours. At the same time, we need to be aware of other measures to combat the acute pollution situations we see in Oslo and in other major cities. There, municipalities have the possibility of introducing different measures — a diesel ban in a zone, which has been tried in Oslo, a date drive, as in Bergen, a higher bombing rate. We also have measures and instruments to counter high annual average NO2 values. This applies, for example: the permanent low-emission zones and the prohibition of specific vehicles in a zone. And then we work on several instruments – environmental differentiation of toll rates, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1206	«Ahus broke with Corridor Asiates for many years after the opening. The hospital in Østfold does not have room for its own management. Now trust-elected doctors warn against the same happening in the Drama. The new hospital is being dimensioned so that there will be patients at any time in 90 pst. of the beds. The internationally recommended maximum safety limit is 85 pst. coating. Why does the Council of State take into account all professional recommendations and plan new hospitals with a coating we know increases the risk of patient injury and death?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1213	It's true, as the representative of Toppe points out, that Aarhus had challenges with corridor Asians after the hospital opened. Hospital activity has increased considerably in recent years as a result of increased population growth in the area of uptake. At the same time, there are now fewer Corridor Asians at the hospital than in many years. Positive developments have taken place in extensive improvement efforts to optimise hospital operations. This includes, among other things: reduced bedtime and increased proportion of patients cleared in emergency facilities. Health regions are responsible for planning future treatment capacity and cover percentages in new hospitals. Health South-East has a decision on the use of high efficiency in the planning of new hospital buildings. High efficiency is defined here as 90 pst. for regular beds, 80 pst. for observation sites and 75 pst. for patient hotel rooms. Capacity depends not only on the size of the hospital. New hospital buildings could better facilitate more efficient bed use, including: as a result of exclusive rights. New hospital buildings require new ways of working. Hospitals spend time and resources putting the new operation into place before new hospital buildings are put into service. In particular, it is important to prepare the staff. My impression is that the Hospital Østfold has learned from the experiences of Akershu University Hospital. I'm sure this will further improve in the Drama. I assume that there is room for more efficient operation with good quality in Norwegian hospitals. Health regions have been working for several years to provide a good basis for developing the right capacity in hospitals in the region. Planning healthcare provision and treatment capacity is a complex and demanding task. Similarly, investment in hospital buildings is extensive and requires long-term planning, financial sustainability and priority. The sensitivity of change needs to be assessed, and I know that health regions are concerned with ensuring sufficient flexibility to address any change in assumptions. In a situation of increasing population growth and changes in supply and demand, it is important to ensure the good use of the buildings that we have and the new buildings that come, which contribute to the proper organisation of healthcare and the right prioritisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1224	The average occupancy rate in Norwegian hospitals today is 93 pst. That's 8 pst. above the internationally recommended level of defence. We have a number of examples of hospitals that over a long time have had over 100 pst. coating. We've had examples of departments that in periods may have coatings on up to 120 pst. We've had deaths that the county doctor has seen in connection with the tall cover. A new German study shows that when the coating exceeds 92.5 pst., mortality increases significantly. Does the Minister of Health not see the seriousness of planning new hospitals with high coverings, and of the fact that there is a large degree of overcoating in Norwegian hospitals today?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1231	Good coverage is important and the new hospitals are planned for what is needed for the future. But I believe that the representative Toppe has a very unsound representation of both the situation and this number. Firstly, the cover rate is not a national quality indicator and, in isolation, is not a good measure of quality. With regard to the technical recommendations on coating percentages, I know that in a 2001 report, the State Health Authority recommended an average coating of 85 pst. for the planning of operations in departments with a high share of immediate help insertions. In addition, the oversight recommended a coating up to 90-95 pst. in departments with mainly planned activities. Following this report, there have been changes in treatment methods, among others. with the increased use of day surgery and the expansion of municipal services. In addition, new, modern hospitals now planned will provide better facilities for other solutions, including: through the ensensory space.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1240	There's an inaccuracy in the response from the Council of State, because when the OECD and the Central Statistical Office talk about the occupancy rate, they talk about average numbers, and that's the average number that's 93 pst. in Norway. Governments respond that some departments have lower coatings, and that is clear. But we're talking about an average number, which the government doesn't want to stick to. Governments refer to some older reports, but in recent times the Health Directorate has recommended this. OECD countries have an average of 85 pst. and has recommended their countries to have a corresponding limit on their defence. Norway is one of the countries in Europe with the highest occupancy rate and the shortest lying time. I have to ask again: is the Council of State certain that the offer is defenceworthy when the coating in Norwegian hospitals should be so high?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1249	In his initial question, the representative creates the impression that a hospital in Health South-East is planned for 90 pst. coating in any case. That's not the case. As I said, a new hospital building is planning where you have a high rate of utilization, but where this is defined as 90 pst. in ordinary beds, 80 pst. for observation sites and 75 pst. for patient hotel rooms. The representative Toppe must also consider that the new hospitals being built are being built differently from the old hospitals. Among other things, it means that a person has a single bed room, a completely different possibility of creating patient safety also with a higher coating percentage, including: by not having to take into account whether a man or a woman is being admitted, and by a less needing to take into account infectious diseases, which one has major challenges when having hospitals where several patients are in the same room. So comparing old hospitals to new hospitals is going to be wrong in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1260	‘The new Drammen Hospital is planned to provide patients with 90 pst at all times. of the beds. The other internationally recommended limit of safety is 85 pst. The Council of State will take the initiative to provide the hospital in Kongsberg with the necessary means of upgrading so that their bed capacity and tasks can be extended in such a way that the new Drammen hospital remains well within the internationally recommended limit of 85 pst. coating?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1267	As I have just replied to the representative Toppe, regional health companies are responsible for planning future treatment capacity and occupancy rates in hospitals. Health South-East suggests different rates of use in the different hospitals when total capacity is planned. While it's added to base 90 pst. the efficiency of the new Drammen hospital is added to 85 pst. occupation at the other hospitals in the West Viken. This must be seen in connection with the fact that only one room is planned in the Drammen. This provides greater flexibility and therefore better capacity utilisation than using multi-bed rooms, such as it does. are at the hospitals of Kongsberg, Hønefoss, and Bærum. I know that Health South-East has been concerned that the new hospital in Drammen was to be planned so that the capacity of the hospital in the West Week is used in the best possible way overall. Thus, the optimal and flexible use of the total capacity of all hospitals in the health enterprise is assumed, i.e. Just at Kongsberg, Hønefoss, or Ring Kingdom, and Bærum. I am also aware that there are plans to rebuild and upgrade these hospitals. Responsibility for prioritising and implementing such measures lies with Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1278	For everyone who heard the answer, there was no answer. My question was specifically on how to have equipped Kongsberg Hospital here to take part of the problems. Health South-East has sent a message to Vestre Viken about a large reduction in the hospital area for a new hospital in Drammen to reduce costs. In this context, a joint report has been prepared, Optimization of a new hospital in Drammen, where it is, among other things. read: «Movement of 20 % of elective orthopaedic activities is considered»; and further, «Restricted movement of other activities, if any», as defined. [[indoor, day and outpatient]] It says in the report that 20 pst. the capacity of the Drama in the case of orthopaedics has been transferred to Kongsberg. Furthermore, it says that areas must then be established elsewhere from the Western Gulf. Does the Council of State agree with the leaders of Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1288	As the representative is well aware, some of the background to the work done to optimise the development of the Drammen, precisely based on the responsibility of West Viken and Health South-East to ensure the upgrading of the other hospitals in the West Viken. It is both about building conditions and about following up on what is a clear lead in the national health and hospital plan, namely to help add functions to the smaller hospitals to ensure and ensure their continued existence. I feel that the work being done in both West Viken and Health South-East is consistent with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1293	Then we can go back to my original question, where I asked Kongsberg – but to the extent also Ringerijke and Bærum – can get the necessary upgrading materials, so that their bed capacity and tasks can be expanded, so as to relieve the new hospital in Drammen. Have I understood correctly, that what I now said, is also the opinion of the Council of State, that one has scaled down the hospital in the Drammen to get more beds and more activity in the other three hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1298	As I know the project related to the development of the hospital offer in Västre Viken, it is also based on a greater use of the capacity both in Bærum, on Kongsberg and on Hønefoss. With regard to the need for investment funds, health south-east will promote possible loan applications to the Ministry of Health and Welfare for projects with a cost of more than 500 million. kr, and priorities between those projects. Projects with a cost of less than 500 million. kr, health enterprises themselves have a responsibility to finance. I do not take a position on those projects until they are promoted to the Ministry, and then it will be promoted to the Stortinget in the budget proposal, as is usual.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1312	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1320	‘The Headquarters of the Centre for ICT in Education and the University of Norway may now be moved from Tromsø as a result of an organisation project chaired by the Ministry of Knowledge. These are the last of a number of other centralisation measures, such as the closure of the DFØ and, most recently, the Loan Fund departments in Tromsø. Will the Council of State ensure that the competence, authority and thus those head offices remain in Tromsø?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1327	Moving business out of Tromsø has not been evaluated and is not relevant either. But the Ministry of Knowledge is known to go through the organisation of the knowledge sector, and then we have three objectives: we will make our system more efficient, create better services and move business out of Oslo. Then we evaluate different models of how the sector can be organised, and we discuss it with the businesses involved. The organisation and decisions taken during the spring. Large parts of the ICT centre in education and the University of Norway are located in Tromsø. Over the years, sound professional and administrative skills have been developed in the two activities, and they also cooperate between themselves. Both environments have the whole country as their scope. ICT centres in education and Norway solve tasks contributing to the digitisation of the knowledge sector, which will continue to be central in the future. The review shall be assessed, inter alia: on the further development of both ICT centres in education and in the University of Norway as part of larger, merged establishments. In all model options, the merged floors will have office space in several cities and, of course, head office one of these locations. Moving business out of Tromsø has not been evaluated and is not relevant either. On the contrary, it would be desirable in all the options to develop and further develop the competences we have in Tromsø, regardless of whether or not they retain head office status. I have as my objective the explicit aim of facilitating more state jobs outside Oslo. It is often easier to do if we can build on existing professional environments that are already outside Oslo, such as: Centres for ICT in education and the University of Norway in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1338	I thank you for your answer. The issue now was not whether the State Council or the government is considering relocating activities from Tromsø, but that part of this reorganization project suggests that the head offices of the ICT Centres in education and Norway University should no longer be located in Tromsø. I appreciate what the Council of State says about maintaining the environment in Tromsø, but it is clear that what you often see is a tendency for businesses to have head offices, where the organisation grows – and not outside. This is part of the fear when the department now has a shift going on, and it is discussed to merge ICT services into a larger unit with its head office elsewhere in the country. I would like to ask the Council of State if he can provide a guarantee that the Tromsø offices of the ICT Centres in education and the University of Norway will not have reduced tasks and will not be able to reduce the number of jobs resulting from the reorganisation – in short, that they will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1347	As I said in my answer, it has not been relevant to consider putting down or moving out any of the two mentioned businesses in Tromsø, rather we talk about how we can strengthen and further develop these two businesses. It also doesn't give a very precise impression when you're talking about the head office being moved, because that's not the point. If we are to have a center for ICT as today, the head office will be located in Tromsø — dot. But if we're not going to have a dedicated center for ICT, but it's going into a larger business, for example. The Education Directorate, that means that technically lies the head office of the Education Directorate in Oslo, but that doesn't mean, as I repeat and underline, that the business in Tromsø should be demolished, changed, weakened. Rather, it must be strengthened and expanded. It's simply because one of our objectives is to move business out of Oslo, in addition to the efficiency and good use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1354	Fear is, as I said, what development will be in the long term if the head office will be located elsewhere than in Tromsø. The experience we now have – despite what the Council of State says about the goal of moving jobs out of Oslo – is that we see that when the government has increased, Oslo's share of government staff has also increased. Over the period 2013–2016, there have been more than 9 000 new state employees, keeping the Defense away, and almost half of them have come to Oslo. According to the government's own figures, when you say that you have moved out 428 jobs, over half, almost 60 p.p., of them have moved from Oslo to Norway's second largest, third largest and fourth largest city – so you move jobs between big cities. That's not exactly decentralization. If this is to be taken seriously, will the Council of State ensure that head offices and trade unions are also located outside Oslo and the largest cities within his field?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1361	Firstly, I believe that the representative Martin Henriksen, who is now asking questions about Tromsø, which is one of our largest cities, is interested in moving office functions and jobs to other of our larger cities. It is also important because if we are to decentralize, we need to decentralize and also build strong or even stronger regional centres. Tromsø is, to say the least, a strong and important region centre in the north; it is about something an understatement. We will also consider relocating headquarters functions in our organisation process, also in cooperation with the project that the Ministry of Local Affairs has. It must be added to places where there are sufficient professional environments to maintain it, but it does not always have to be in Oslogryta. It's an important goal, and I think this government is more ambitious and also gets to more than previous governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1371	This question, from the representative Else-May Botten to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1376	‘The western fjord landscape with, among other things, the Geiranger fjord is something we are very proud of in Møre and Romesdal and have also gained world heritage status. Every summer visitors come from abroad and abroad who are impressed by the beautiful cultural landscape along the fjord. However, a living agriculture and grazing is a prerequisite for maintaining this beautiful landscape. What will the Council of State do to preserve the cultural landscape in Geiranger and along the rest of the coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1383	On behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, it is not difficult for me, as a Westerner, to agree that the fjord landscape in the West is exceptionally beautiful. We have a number of measures to take care of the cultural landscape of agriculture. Geirangerfjord belongs to the World Heritage Sites Western fjords and Vega Island, and here we have, among other things. in the agricultural agreement for many years set aside funds for the conservation of the cultural landscape. In the agricultural settlement 2016, it was, among other things, additional half a million kroner to Western Norse fjord landscapes over this scheme. Active agriculture throughout the country is important for maintaining a living cultural landscape. The general instruments contained in the agricultural agreement help to maintain the cultural landscape. Other schemes that are more specific are targeted, inter alia: different environmental challenges regionally and locally across the country. These funds are then linked to regional and municipal strategies, so that those who know the challenges best should be able to prioritise and deploy the most important measures. As the representative Botten is familiar with, the government recently presented a Communication to the European Parliament on the future societal tasks of agriculture. It is a profitable and safe food production in line with the interests of consumers, the production of common goods and the contribution to employment and value creation throughout the country. The general instruments of the agricultural agreement must be at the bottom of the agreement in order to take care of the different cultural landscapes. What we have said is to ensure the basis for the geographical distribution of production and to facilitate the increased use of Norwegian feed resources, including set-aside. It is important that in this setting we use the various specific instruments aimed at safeguarding the cultural landscape, and in the agricultural settlement in 2015 it was among other things. set of 20 million. kr for prospect clearance in the cultural landscape. The purpose of the scheme is to contribute to the outlook and to promote values related to the cultural landscape and to provide climate benefits through the use of the grubbing-up plant for bioenergy purposes where possible. Both the specific instruments and the general instruments of the agricultural agreement are important to support the fact that we can have a cultural landscape that provides an attractive basis for travel as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1400	I thank you for your answer. It is that the use of grazing resources in rural areas contributes to the maintenance of an active agriculture and a living cultural landscape throughout the country. It is therefore important that we stimulate this through agricultural policy. The proposal in the Agriculture Communication mentioned by the Council of State to bet on the set-aside is initially very good, but many react that the government will shift the grants from grants to grazing in cultural land and land to land – in other words, a redistribution internally between these grants. Sees the Council of State that such a rigid conversion can affect areas such as: Geirange hard, where the landscape will grow again without grazing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1407	The various instruments of the agricultural agreement must be seen in a context, and I mentioned some of the instruments in place. I can take a quick list, which shows how many opportunities there are for local agriculture in this region too, linked to keeping in the claimed cultural landscape. The specific instruments have both the grants directly to the World Heritage Sites, the grants are for the purpose of cleaning the world, the grants are for selected agricultural cultural landscapes, and specific environmental measures are available in agriculture. In addition, the general instruments with a large scale, both the regional environmental programmes, the grazing premium in general and the area and cultural landscape grants. Overall, this provides a basis for active agriculture in Geirangerfjord and other world heritage areas, which in turn provides the basis for a link between agriculture and tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1414	The point must be that through the grazing subsidies, we stimulate the use of resources that would otherwise not be used. And it's sad to know that perhaps the last farmer is grateful for himself in Geiranger. There are 750 cruises in the course of a year there, in the course of a summer, and then there will also be a total change in what they're going to deal with in the future. I am not quite convinced that the answers are in terms of what the Council of State says here. I was at Stranda with the Bond team a week ago, and there was great concern about this topic. And I wonder if the Council of State shares this concern about what kind of development we're going to get in this area that we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1421	Let me remind you that almost three years ago, Storfjorden's Friends received the national cultural landscape prize for their efforts to preserve the agricultural cultural landscape in Geirangerfjorden. The cultural landscape price is distributed in cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Norwegian Cultural Heritage. I'd like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the local involvement that is in caring for the agricultural landscapes around the country. In this discussion, one shall not underestimate the challenge of rebuilding the area and maintenance of out-of-service buildings. But if one uses the tools that I have referred to earlier and that are available at different levels of administration, a based on both knowledge, awareness and targeted efforts along with the actors could contribute to the establishment of the beautiful cultural landscape in our fjords for the tourism industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1431	This question, from the representative of Terje Aasland to the Minister for Co-ordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1436	Thank you for getting the right Council of State to answer a very important question. ‘Norwegian power-intensive industry has received CO 2 compensation since 2012. In order for this scheme to continue beyond 2020, the EU ETS Directive and State aid rules must be designed to allow the Norwegian scheme to continue. The revision of the EU ETS Directive is now under consideration in the European Parliament.’ ‘What initiatives have the Council of State and the Government taken towards the EU to ensure the possibility of continuing the Norwegian CO 2 compensation scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1451	The current CO 2 compensation scheme is firm and valid until 2020. The purpose of this scheme is to compensate the industry for increased electricity prices resulting from the EU ETS, and to prevent industry from moving to countries with less stringent climate regulation, so-called carbon leakage. After today's quota directive, it is voluntary for countries to provide CO 2 compensation. The European Commission has adopted detailed guidelines for such compensation to ensure that it is granted in line with State aid law. The Norwegian scheme is based on these guidelines and is accepted by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. The European Commission’s proposal for a revised allowance directive for the period 2021 to 2030 opens up the possibility for countries to continue providing CO 2 compensation. That is the proposal for discussion in the European Parliament – with a vote today, as it was correctly said – and in the Council. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has proposed a centralised system of compensation to compensate all eligible activities, as well as to allow countries to choose to supplement their activities in the context of given constraints. From the Norwegian side, we follow the discussions in the EU closely, and we actively participate in the relevant forums. We have delivered written input early to the Commission. We have regularly discussed the quota market discussion with European partners. I recently addressed it with responsible EU parliamentarians in Brussels in November and in the Green Growth Group. I will continue to address this question in the Green Growth Group at a meeting at the end of the month. We have today sent a letter to the Maltese Presidency and also to other Member States to address Norwegian views on this. What we've highlighted in our recordings is that national gambling is important in order to maintain and continue a CO 2 compensation scheme, that there must be room for manoeuvre there. We have stressed that the system must be predictable, that there must be great emphasis on predictability for business. In terms of carbon leakage risk, we have specifically stated that instruments to reduce this risk are important, but that such instruments should be limited to those businesses that need it the most. And in this context, we have mentioned the power-intensive industry that sells export products, as a sector that can typically be exposed to carbon leakage. We have also highlighted the need for equal treatment of businesses at the same risk of carbon leakage. And we are constantly assessing our positions in the light of discussions in the EU, and we are further assessing Norwegian input in the light of the discussions. I want to ensure that the Stortinget is kept informed in the further work, for example. in the European Committee of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1474	Thanks for the answer. What I am particularly concerned about, and what is interesting here, is how the government has intended this scheme to work after 2020 – if one has actually put forward an argument that underpins the continuation of today's system, because today's system is a significant factor for investment in the Norwegian power-generating industry. We know very well that the Hydro Karmøy pilot today would not have been a reality if the scheme had been weakened, such as. The government proposed the fall of 2013 – to everyone's surprise. It is also the case that on 9 February this year the NHO wrote to the Council of State by Kristin Forest Lund in a very clear written address that she is concerned about the situation, and also stressed that as they understand the situation – like us – a Norwegian position has not been drawn up by the Norwegian authorities in the ongoing and demanding discussions on the reform of the trading regime. I repeat the question: can the Council of State already include how the government has argued to maintain a scheme after 2020, and can he guarantee that a scheme after 2020 will be available to Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1483	As I mentioned in my first answer, we have stressed that instruments to reduce the risk of carbon leakage are important. I was also clear at the November meeting of the Green Growth Group, which is made up of the most forward-looking climate leaders among EU Member States, that there is important room for manoeuvre for national action also between 2021 and 2030. It's a position that we carry on and maintain. In the letter we have sent to the Presidency now, we have placed great emphasis on predictability, and we have also stressed the need to adapt the carbon leakage instruments to developments in which Member States use tighter instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We have to ensure incentives for conversion and low-emission development here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1488	On behalf of nearly 11,000 employees in the power-generating industry, I am concerned. I'm worried about the answer that is now being given. It's not that it's the instruments that basically matter. That's how the instruments are that must mean something. As I understand the position now, reducing a schedule from today's level, by a 75 pst. grant scheme in relation to a CO 2 compensation, to a 50 pst scheme up to 2030 – subject to some reservations. This means that the basis for the power-processing industry in Norway will be significantly weakened. And I do not now hear an active state council, which wants to argue further in the EU context towards its colleagues in Europe about the need to continue today's system at today's level. Then again, I ask very concretely: will the Council of State take an initiative, go to Brussels and argue that today's system will continue in its present form, so that we can find a solution for the power-generating industry with investment security up to 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1498	I will travel to Brussels in less than two weeks, including: in order to attend the Green Growth Group meeting, and there we are going to maintain our position — and that national arrangements for carbon leakage must be possible even after 2020. They do not decide in Brussels whether we can continue our CO 2 compensation scheme. That's what you decide in this room. What's important to us is that the ability to determine it will be present. And that seems to be the case. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has proposed in Parliament that a gradual reduction in the permitted level of aid is an important discussion, but it is not new. It is also applicable during the current period with a reduction from 85 pst. in 2013 to 75 pst. in 2020. The reason for not providing full compensation is to ensure that the allowance system provides incentives for conversion and low-emission development. This is a climate policy measure, and then climate objectives must be central.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1513	‘In order to ensure future power supply in East Finland, the development of the overarching network itself is the foundation. According to NRK Finnmark, Statnet estimates the construction of a gas power plant to reduce the need for networks. Such a solution will provide less flexibility in the supply of power, reduce opportunities for new industry and new generation of energy as wind power. Will the Council of State ensure that Statnett has a rapid start and a network expansion to East Finland instead of gas power stations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1520	A stable energy supply is essential for a modern welfare society and a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. Societal security of supply requirements are increasing and electricity is being used in increasing numbers of tasks. In order to meet the need for a secure power supply, large investments in the mains power supply are now under way. It will contribute to enhancing security of supply. Investments in the next ten years have been estimated at between 100 and 140 billion. kr. I am concerned about a secure power supply in Finnmark in line with the power supply in the rest of the country. Therefore, I am pleased that Statnett is continuously working with the power supply in Finnmark. Statnett is now building a 420 kV line between Balsfjord and Skaidi, and together with the line between Ofoten and Balsfjord, which is also under construction, this will help ensure security of supply for electricity in North Norway. This results in investments of between 7 and 10 billion. kr, with major regional and local effects. Let me underline that Statnett does not have plans to build gas power plants in Finnmark. The construction of gas power plants is also not part of government policy. Last September, however, Statnett published a report assessing future needs and possible solutions for the Finnish electricity system. The investigation has been carried out in cooperation with industry, industry and local authorities. State networks have in their report compared grid reinforcements with gas turbines in the petroleum industry. This is the background to the fact that gas power has been mentioned in the Statnet report. The report concludes that there are currently no known needs to trigger a new transmission network in Finnmark. Statnet is responsible for assessing whether there is a basis for new network actions. We should remember that the deployment of the transmission network involves considerable costs and has consequences for nature, the environment and other land interests. Net customers also pay for the investments, and it is important that the network is developed in line with the need. We're going to have a safe power supply across the country, including in our northernmost part of the country, and the wind resources in Finnmark are good. It is important to bear in mind that the costs of wind power are now falling, and that it also promises future energy production in our northernmost state and thus the exploitation of the natural resources we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1535	I thank you for the answer, and I think many will be reassured that gas power stations are not considered an alternative to line development. So it is that there is a great potential for wind power in East Finland, but there are also a number of other new jobs and industrial opportunities that depend entirely on the development of the network. It's the classic chicken and the egg. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: does the government have a goal of building a new power line between Skaidi and Varangerbotn, which is where today is missing? Should that line be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1542	I stress what I said in my original answer, that it is State grids that are analysing the need for the development of the transmission network based on the needs of electricity that are in the market, and based on the needs that are in order to obtain any new capacity after the development of e.g. wind power also in Finnmark. What has now happened in this debate is that the report from Statnett has been interpreted in the sense that gas power plants have been connected here. So that's not right. A comparison has been made with the need for grid capacity related to possible alternatives, which could be self-energy production related to the petroleum activity outside Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1549	Again, I'm glad that gas power has been lost. But it is that having access to the Internet will trigger a number of new jobs. Similarly, there are a number of new jobs and industrial opportunities that will not come into operation if there is no foreseeable, stable and sufficient power supply in the future. That is why East-Finland is very clear from a cross-political point of view. Last week the representatives of the Progress Party went out from the churches and said this had to be done. Therefore, my question is not what Statnett thinks about this matter, but what does the Council of State think? Does the Council of State mean that the line between Skaidi and Varangerbotn should be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1554	It will be decided by the Council of State if appropriate. It's like we have a code here that makes the Ministry of Oil and Energy get things to say if the expansion is over a certain volume. In addition, Statnett has the opportunity through treatment at NVE to implement concrete line developments. What is important for this government is that we deliver electricity in a safe and good way, that security of supply is good, and that there is enough power to develop the region both in terms of housing and new industrial measures. We're going to take care of that in Finnmark, too. What's important is what I said in my introduction, that there are significant costs also related to network deployment, and then you have to make sure that you have a sequential expansion that means that the cost doesn't get too high for those who have to pay the bill, namely our power customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1564	‘The leader of the Police Directorate describes the West Police Master’s concern about the lack of resources as a prematurity and believes that this creates undue concern among citizens, police officers and politicians. Furthermore, in Bergen's Official Journal, he believes that the discussion would be different if people had taken the time to get into the budgets. Does the Council of State believe that the POD, with such opinions, exercises good leadership, acts as a good role model and contributes to the development of a good transparency culture in the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1571	Let me first make it clear that both I and the police director are very busy exercising good leadership and being good role models. We are constantly working to establish a culture that is open and that will provide room for opinion and feedback. In the Police Forum and in the Official Journal of Bergen on 26 January of this year, the Police Director said: "It gets a little premature with these scenarios. In 2017, the police are getting more to walk with.” At that time, the Police Directorate had not received the final letter of allocation, which provides for the disposal of the financial envelopes for 2017. This means that the budget of the year, including the allocation of the budget to the West Police District, was not finally settled at that time. The police director was therefore unable to comment on the details of the budgetary disbursement. But based on Storting's decision to grant both he could and, in my opinion, he had to clarify that the framework for police work in 2017 will be significantly better than what was produced as in the media. In my view, it is important not to create undue disquiet among both employees and people most about a dramatic job interview when the West police district will soon be strengthened with considerable resources. We must have top leaders who provide the necessary information and who are able to correct a debate that takes the wrong direction and is based on wrong premises. I believe that this is part of his responsibility as top manager. It is not possible that opinions should apply only to a few selected persons and that they should be cut off from the police director in an important role in the societal debate. The Ministry's letter of assignment to the Police Directorate was sent on 2 February. I have been informed that the directorate is now in the final phase of the work on disposal written to the police departments. The final budgetary framework and the assumptions for, inter alia, Western police districts will be clarified in a relatively short time. However, I would like to stress that police districts will have more room for action in their operating budgets this year, among other things. through the 295 million. the crowns specifically strengthened by the police in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1589	Do I understand correctly that the Minister believes that the choice of words from the chief executive of the police and the army seat was reasonable and good in terms of being a good role model and contributing to transparency? The West Police Master has a high reputation in the population and among his own, and he is newly appointed. The police in the West Police District have had a good deal of challenges lately. He is systematically working to build confidence in the population, and it is quite special – as the only policeman who dares to raise his voice, who can help build up under the culture of transparency – to be met in this way and almost ridiculed, just as if he has not managed to get into the budgets. Does the Minister not see that it is very unfortunate that there are such statements from one of the top leaders of the police in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1594	Let me first make it clear that I believe that a very good job is being done in the West Police District, that a good effort is being made. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to boast of the Western police chief, who I visited relatively recently, and who in many areas is delivering good results. I believe this case came out incorrectly because one discussed a matter on the wrong premises. A letter on the resource situation was sent from the Police Directorate to, among others. Western police district, but it did not take on board the actual funds that will be allocated to the district in 2017, but in a theoretical situation where it was cut in the budgets. Then they commented on that background. The only thing the police director contributed to was correcting what was a wrong image in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1601	But he chose a good deal of words that I won't repeat again. It should be positive that a police officer contributes to transparency, and he said very clearly that this was part of the governance dialogue. Then you think that other police officers in the future will dry up their voice if you get met that way. Even though the cut is now reduced from 0.2 to 0.8, it's actually going to be a cut of 8 million. In addition, funds have been drawn up for expected savings, purchases and other arrangements, so that the scope of action discussed by the Minister is very small in relation to all the tasks assigned to them in addition, plus the delays. How does the Council of State actually define the space for action? Does he think that future police officers will dry up their voice despite the fact that we in the Storting want more transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1606	Neither I nor the police director have any interest in correcting statements to police officers – that is not what I believe happened in this matter either. It was a clarification of the premise for a discussion that came out wrong, where it was presented as if what the representative correctly pointed out was part of the ordinary governance dialogue in the context of budgetary work, was a real cut that the West police district had to implement. I have a great deal of understanding that if the cuts on which calculations were requested, and the representation it received in the media, had been correct, it would have been relatively challenging – to express myself carefully – for the West Police District. So it was not the correct presentation of the case. I can see that people were talking a little past each other, and the police director helped clear up what was a lot of misconceptions that came up in the press, but there is no criticism by the police chief.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1614	‘It was a prerequisite for the Workers’ Party when we voted in favour of the police reform, that the changes should provide more accessible and available police, including in the countryside. The Directorate of Police is justifying the closure of L.A.S. offices to'release time and resources for the police's core tasks'. What concrete measures are now being taken to ensure better prevention, investigation and preparedness in Tokke, Siljan, Fyresdal and Hjartdal, all municipalities in Telemark where the Länsmannskontoret is now shut down?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1621	The near-police reform was, as the representative rightly points out, adopted following a broad settlement in the United Kingdom in June 2015, where the Labour Party was also part of the majority. The need to change the Norwegian police was well-founded in previous analyses and reports. As part of the conciliation, there was agreement that the Directorate of Police was given delegated authority to decide on the structure of services, and at the same time strict demands were made on how this process was to be carried out. The involvement of municipalities was a central requirement in this work. A new service structure will form the basis for delivering a better police service throughout Norway. If we are to achieve the goal of increased presence, better preparedness and good prevention, resources need to be used and managed in a better way. When many smaller offices are to be manned and kept open, it binds up both working time and resources. By merging offices in some places, we can release resources. Increased patrols and preparedness depend primarily on the number of patrols on the road and not to the same extent on the number of places of employment. When we are exposed to an unwanted incident, it is important for us that the police are available and quickly on site. There will be a distance from the nearest patrol that is the most essential for how fast the police are present, and not whether there is a police building nearby. Freed resources shall be directed towards prevention, security and preparedness and investigation. Professional environments are growing, the quality of work will increase, and there will be more equal police services across the country. The police are supposed to be closer to the municipalities and closer to people. The near-police model shall be further developed, inter alia: cooperation between the police and the municipalities, and this cooperation shall be intensified and reinforced. It is the services of the police that matter to the population, and that is what should be at the core of the reform of the police. The size has also given clear instructions that the process in the districts should be transparent and with a high degree of involvement from the municipalities. The Police Directorate published its decision on the new service structure on 13 January this year. The municipalities concerned have eight weeks' notice of appeal. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Board of Appeal. The representative Wiik certainly understands that I cannot comment on the details of the service offer in specific telecommunications municipalities at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1636	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am still uncertain whether the districts of Telemark are being properly cared for in the new police reform. If there are too few officials available, the distances will be very large. The physical distance means a lot when a problem arises. I would point out that the Labour Party in its alternative budget added an increase of 150 million. precisely with a view to increasing the number of officials in the districts. I have also recorded a geographical skepticism in the closure of local bilge offices – Lower Buskerud and Westfold have suffered little, while West Telemark has lost everything. Does the Council of State think this is a good enough treatment for Telemark's citizens in the police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1643	Once again, I have to point out that my department is the Board of Appeal for these cases, so I can't express myself and go into details about locations and individual assessments. What I can do is refer to a rapporteur from the representative's own party in Sørreisa who has clearly stated how he perceives the closure of his local office. He himself says straight out, to the newspaper Nordlys: ‘We’ve got more visible and present police, which works preventively and effectively.’ And he goes on to say, 'We strongly opposed the closure at the time, and the rapporteur raised the matter to the Minister of Justice. But the office was closed anyway." Five years later, he is pleased that things were going well, and the rapporteur has no desire today to get the LEN's office back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1660	I thank you again for the answer. I think some lumbarist offices should be laid down, I don't ignore it. I can support the Council of State on this. But again, my concern for the large districts of Utkan-Telemark remains, especially where the distances to central police offices are now growing. At any time, patrols on the road can be very far away from where they are wanted. Does the Council share my concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1665	Again, as my department is a complaint authority, I cannot go into details. What I can say on a general basis is that we are going to evaluate the complaints carefully, and of course we are going to do a thorough job in that context. Then I ask for an understanding that I cannot say anything more than that, as it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that ultimately has to decide on the appeal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1673	‘The Labour Party provided strong leadership on local anchoring and the process in the design of the new police districts. The police would be more accessible and present. Negative feedback on processes has been received from all over the country. In West Agder, Lvgal and Kvinesdal have sent a complaint. When the Council of State said yes to becoming a new Minister of Justice and Preparedness, I expect the visions contained thoughts about good solutions to improve their implementation. What initiatives did the Council of State take to ensure further good local participation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1680	The near-police reform, which was correctly adopted by a wide-ranging agreement in the United Kingdom in June 2015, among others. with the support of the representative’s own party, is the largest organisational change in the police in recent times. The aim of the reform is that the police should deliver better and more consistent quality of service across the country, and that they should be more accessible and present where people live and move. Municipalities have been involved in the whole process and have had great opportunities to influence the decision on new local structure. For Agders, the rapporteurs and the advisers were invited to a meeting on 12 May 2016, where the police chief and project manager informed about the work to be carried out in the police district. The organizer was the County Council and KS Agder. At the same time, the municipalities received letters about the process in June 2016. The municipalities were then offered a visit by the project manager, who wanted to inform about the work on the service unit structure. All except one municipality accepted the offer and received this information. The police also sent out a questionnaire to all municipalities requesting further distribution to all local government members in June 2016. The Police Directorate presented its decision on changes in the local structure of police districts on 13 January. For Agder's part, it's based on the police chief's proposal. The hearing opinions received show that the municipalities and others concerned largely support this proposal. The police have received mainly positive feedback on the local process in Agder. The municipalities affected by these changes have been given judicial access to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Because the Department is the Board of Appeal, like what I said in the previous question, I cannot go into the concrete assessments of the Directorate of Police and the background to the decision on changes to the local structure of Agder. To the question of which initiatives we take further to ensure local participation, I will refer to the active cooperation with municipalities and local actors. This is essential in order to achieve good results. All municipalities will have at least one police contact, which in dialogue with municipalities will contribute to more targeted prevention. The work of the Police Council shall be strengthened and systematised. The police are dependent on local anchoring to strengthen the security-building work done by the police and to increase confidence in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1693	I can record that the Minister of Justice did not answer the question, but describes the process, and that is to the extent an answer, so too. The Police Directorate has grown strongly under the leadership of the Advance Party of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice has clearly prioritised and defended growth, put forward a proposition on the role of the Directorate in national crisis management and proudly opened the Situation Centre. In the budget, the Labour Party has strengthened free resources for police in the districts and is critical of the growth of the Directorate. In the media, the Progress Party proposes, in its programme work, to close the Directorate of Police. Can the Minister of Justice clarify his position with regard to the Police Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1700	In fact, the government parties, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, decided in Stortingen to increase the free resources for police districts by 295 million. kr. That money goes directly to the districts now, and it's clarified in my letter of assignment to the Police Directorate. With regard to the Police Directorate and the tasks they carry out, one must always be on guard against increasing bureaucracy, but there are some key functions that the Police Directorate carries out on behalf of the whole of Police Norway that must necessarily deliver centrally. The alternative to shutting down the Police Directorate is, in my opinion, relatively poor, which would mean either adding these tasks to the Department, which is not natural, or possibly transferring these tasks to the districts, which is not necessarily the best solution either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1707	I can then state that the Minister of Justice is opposed to the closure of the Police Directorate – that was a fine clarification. As early as 1991, the Josefsen Committee in NOU proposed:29 fewer Länsmann offices. An assessment was then made of the crew they needed to provide satisfactory preparedness. They landed on about ten officials. Does the Council of State think that the assessment made in the Josephsen Committee is standing today, and if not, what is different?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1714	I don't know if I understood the question quite correctly. Today, we have twelve police districts – if that is what the representative referred to – to which I believe is a good and sensible organisation. At the same time – when you’re inside the crew – the government has a very clear and clear goal of having two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants, and we’re going to have it in place by 2020. The efforts made by the government in the field of justice and preparedness in general, and by the police in particular, will benefit from this important service. We've increased the number of police employees since the government shift by about 1,800 a.m., while we've strengthened the budget by 2.5 billion. kr. This government is highly charged to the police, and the police are a budget winner in the budgets of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1719	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-02-15.ana.ud249e1733	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
