ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e28	The representative, Nina Sandberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e33	On behalf of the representatives of Martin Henriksen, Jette F. Christensen, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on student representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e38	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e43	On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy and myself, I would like to make a proposal to reduce the share of intervention-driven funding in the specialist services and not to allow input-driven funding to be passed on to the hospital and department levels. Then I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy, Emilie Enger Mehl and myself to have the Vinmonopole take over the tax-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Avinor's aviation companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e66	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Siv Jensen, Monica Mæland and Bent Höie for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main question, which is from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e75	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. One of the best things about Norway is that we have little differences between people. We take care of each other. In very many other countries, we see the opposite: increased conflicts, greater inequality. Norwegian society has not come off its own. That's the result of leaders making wise choices based on values like community, equal opportunities and justice. In the state budget, the Progress Party and the Right-wing elections take us in the wrong direction, and we see that many react: mothers and fathers who are afraid that they will no longer afford to care for seriously ill children, flooded as infidels see that the government cuts in flood and racial protection, volunteer organizations telling them that they have less opportunity to help women who need legal aid, vulnerable children and young people and unemployed. Sometimes you have to cut budgets, but the more important it is that the elections are made on good values. The Party of Advancement and the Right causes several thousand unemployed to lose their daily allowance. The ones that are hit are the ones that have earned the least, the ones that initially have the weakest economy. The government refers to senior researcher Knut Røed when more people come to work when the daily allowance is cut. But to the newspaper, Røed says that the proposal “can lead to fewer jobs, and that it takes longer before people come to work, because they are pushed on to arrangements further away from the labour market”. And then Røed says, "I fear both the negative distribution aspect and that it can help to weaken the working line." It weakens the distribution, and it weakens the working line. What is the reason why the government takes the daily allowance from several thousand low wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e88	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the representative guessing that it is good that we live in a country with small differences. This is the broad political agreement, and there is a broad consensus that this is something we are going to take care of in the future. This is about what I think is the heading of the budget that the government has put forward for 2018. It's about job security, it's about creating more jobs, and it's about qualifying more people for an increasingly specialised working life. It's about being able to focus on both how we set up our working life and how we make sure that people are qualified to participate in it. Then, under the heading «sustainable welfare societies», it is about ensuring that we have good, safe welfare systems, which are designed in particular to have a good social profile, that they take care of those who fall outside our society. I believe the government does. We must also focus on this in terms of immigration and integration policy. Qualifying a larger proportion of people with a minority background in Norway to participate in employment, manage themselves, support themselves is also an essential part of building a sustainable welfare society in the future. I believe that the government has taken all of this into account. Then it is absolutely right that we implement changes in schemes such as: is about qualifying more people to participate in the labour market, but not least about having a close relationship with the labour market in relation to the benefits they have. Today's people on daily pay will not be affected by the changes proposed by the government, and the changes are coming at a time when the labour market is improving, unemployment is falling, employment is rising. We also see that the employment share, which the Labour Party was very concerned about in the election campaign, is on its way up again after it began to fall below the previous government in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e95	I thank you for the answer, although I am not sure if I really got an answer to the question of how a cut in cash, making the unemployed poorer, helps to get more people to work. One of the biggest problems we have is just getting more jobs and fewer social security. The Labour Party has made many proposals for solutions: wage subsidies for employers who give a chance of finding a job, a skills reform that allows more people to retrain to new jobs, increase, do not cut, Norwegian training for immigrants who are going to work, apprenticeships that can help the 15 000 who do not complete secondary education each year. Unfortunately, it has been voted down. Instead, it has been cut for those affected – cut in the termination allowance for older workers, cut in the multi-disabled, traffic-damaged and chronically ill scheme, cut in the child supplement for the disabled. It turns out that the miscarriage did not recover from being cut in the child supplement and in their support schemes. On the contrary, the number of young workers has increased by 50 pst. under this Government. My question is: how successful does the Minister of Finance think that the effects of the Progress Party and the Right Cut have been?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e104	Let me first remind the representative Giske who took the initiative in the misreform that this government improved and adjusted when we presented it to the Stortinget. That was the government Gishe was a member of a few years ago. Once again, I fully agree that the goal must be to get the most in the job and the least possible in social security. Then it's all about – as I said before – ensuring safe jobs, facilitating more creation, and qualifying as much as possible to participate in the labour market. The measures that I hear from the representative Giske are actually more of what the government is already doing. I think that's very good. This suggests that the Labour Party really agrees with the main trends, in the main directions, in the budget that lies here. It's about qualifying more people throughout the education cycle, it's about facilitating fewer drops out of school. Then we need to make the professions more relevant, we need to ensure that there are a sufficient number of places of study — and we need to facilitate a business that creates more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e111	Follow-up questions are given – first Fredric Holen Bjørdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e116	Perhaps the greatest difference in our society is between those who are inside, and those who are outside the labour market. Since the Right Party and the Advance Party took over the government power, the number of young people who have failed has gone to the roof – an increase of almost 50 pst – without the government taking over the problem or presenting solutions. On the contrary, we see cut to the weakest groups. The number of people we can get into the world of work determines whether we will be able to keep the welfare state up to date. That young people lose faith in the future, get standing outside permanently, a crisis is not only for that debt, but it is devastating for the whole of society. The Labour Party will have an active labour market policy to get more young people into work and fewer in social security. We want a job guarantee for young disabled people. Under today's government, the unemployment rate has been high. Now the part that's at work is decreasing, and the part that's young on disability is dramatically increasing. Can the Minister of Finance refer to a new measure in this State budget that meets that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e125	Once again, I agree that the great difference in our society is between those who are in the world of work and those who are outside. This is why the main features of the government budget for next year are about labour market. It's about securing the jobs we have, creating more jobs and qualifying more people to get into the world of work. It is extremely important, in particular at a time when the labour market is changing and increasingly demanding qualifications and competences. Then we have to make sure that as much as possible is qualified to participate in it. Then I disagree that the government has not taken many measures to take care of those outside – rather on the contrary. This budget offers a basic social profile, protecting those who do not have the back to bear the economic challenges, through good schemes. We ensure that as much as possible should be able to live on their own income by getting to work. It will be the most important job for this government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e132	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions. The President is asking for follow-up questions to be put forward and ready, so that we keep up the pace of the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e139	Tax policy is an important part of the distribution policy, and as surely as it approaches Christmas, there are proposals for increased fees from the State Council of Siv Jensen. While those with the highest incomes have received more than NOK 50000 in tax credits with this government, the majority have experienced tax increases – electricity and fuel increases and an air passenger charge. Nearly 4 billion. kr was the fee increases of the previous period. In this state budget, it's almost $0.5 billion. Add kr. What are Siv Jensen's plans for the next four-year period? How much will the fees continue to increase in order to finance the tax burden for those who have the most of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e145	I believe that the representative of Gülsvik should bring with him what are the main features of the tax policy of this government. Taxes and charges go down in total – not up. The centre has itself promoted an alternative budget in which they propose to increase taxes by a significant number of billions of dollars. It is not the policy of this government. In the government budget for next year, too, we continue to reduce the tax burden. The taxes are going down by another 3 billion. kr. That means that under this government, the total tax burden has fallen by 26 billion. kr. The profile in this is good. Under this government, an average family has been relieved of NOK 10 000. You have to be a high gas man to think that it doesn't fit into a family economy. It is true that some climate and environmental taxes have gone up, but netly the taxpayers have come out of this, and there is a policy that this government intends to continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e152	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e157	Although the differences in Norway are smaller than in many other countries, Norway is the country in the whole OECD area where the differences are increasing most. The Minister of Finance has previously refused, on many occasions, the increase in differences in Norway, despite both the state budget, the fact that the SSB has documented this, and that many of her own political parties and colleagues in the government have admitted that the differences are actually increasing in this country. In the present state budget, the government continues this process, while the king of the throne raised the significance of a society of small differences. Can the Minister of Finance say a little about what the budget for next year will mean? Will the differences increase, or will the differences be reduced in Norway in the next year with the government's plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e164	I think I can assure the representative of Knag Fylkesnes that the government fully agrees with what the king reads up in the Stortinge under the throne. That means that the government agrees that we should continue to have a society of small differences. This means that we need to qualify as much as possible for work and that we need to have good, safe, rusty welfare arrangements for those who cannot participate. One of the consequences of the tax reform was about dividend adjustments that have provided temporary results in the parameters measuring inequality. This does not mean that differences are increasing sharply in Norway. We have basic good tax-funded welfare arrangements. That's what we're going to have to keep going, because it creates security for our citizens even at a time when we're going to have to change into a completely different kind of business structure in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e171	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e176	Also for the Left, a society with small differences is important. But when we're going to prioritize what's most important, and fight for it, it's about the fight against child poverty -- about all the kids who experience growing up without the same opportunities as everyone else. That's why we've fought a lot to bet on school. We have also invested in free core time in kindergartens for low income families and lower price in kindergartens for those families with poor advice. In all these statistics, not only income matters, but lack of expenditure also means something to the development of those groups. So my question is, is the effect of bringing down the expenses of those families with poor advice also effective in the fight against child poverty, that you're not just focusing on the income part?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e181	Many of the measures now highlighted by the representative Skei Grande have been the cooperation of the Government Parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party to put in place. We agree on this. It has been important to make provision for children growing up in poor families to have the opportunity to go to kindergarten. Therefore, free core time is important. Therefore, it means that those with the lowest income may not use more than 6 pst. of their income in order to have children in kindergarten. And that means that the school should be an arena for everyone – thick or thin wallet. This is why it means that we are committed to combating child poverty through a wide range of instruments, which make children — regardless of their parents’ finances — feel included and can participate in various social arenas in school contexts and in school leisure contexts. We've done a lot of this in common, because it means something to the self-esteem of these children. It's incredibly important, and it creates a foundation for these children to face a safer growth and future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e186	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e191	I want to keep track that there are too many children living in low-income families. Unfortunately, there has been an increase in recent years. In many ways, there are two tracks you have to work with. The important thing is to make sure that parents can have a job to do, that they can manage to feed themselves. That's the second most important thing. So we know that there's someone who can't work, who won't be able to get out of work, or that it'll take a while before they get out of work. Then it is also important to work with offers to the children who today grow up in a poor family. We've been busy making sure they have an activity offer. Nothing is more isolating than not being able to participate in sports or other activities that all your friends do, or not being able to participate in holiday offers. In the last few budgets, we have strengthened this effort very strongly. But we still know that this summer there were many who were in line and who did not come on vacation. We have a vision that all children deserve a holiday offer – preferably that their parents pay, but if not they should be able to get it for example. through a voluntary organisation. Does the Minister of Finance share that vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e196	I very much agree that we should have good arrangements to ensure that children are given as much opportunities as possible when they grow up. The Christian People's Party has agreed with the government parties on this. I would also like to remind you in the debate on child poverty that the majority of children growing up in poor families today have a minority background. Therefore, it is extremely important that, in the coming period, we should facilitate better integration, so that more people with a minority background come into work, because both parents are at work. The best way to reduce child poverty is to ensure that parents have income that enables them to support their children. That is why, in the future, we need to work a lot more to facilitate the qualification of people with a minority background for working life. It is about Norwegian training, and it is about participation and inclusion in the labour market. Too many people have gone too long without being a part of the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e201	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e207	It's amazing that in the state budget of Siv Jensen, in the state budget of the Progress Party, the ordinary people who can't live at home because of work, who get the big $750 million tax return. kr, while the 50 richest have got 1 billion. kr in tax cuts while the Progress Party has run. It's the many people who are going to get the tax snipes, the few who are going to get the tax snipes. There is something unsolvable and somewhat unhealthy about giving large tax cuts to those who may fall into luxury, while those who are going to live in vomit will get more taxes and get tax cuts. This is part of a pattern. In the last period, the Progress Party cut massively in the commuter deductions of those who are running far to work. A regular commuter who has to commute seven miles every day – there are many who have to – got less deductions, about NOK 8 000. Last year, Erna Solberg said that when it's a tougher labour market, it's important that people are willing to move on, are willing to travel far. Why, then, is it that when the Progress Party is going to present its budget, it is precisely those who are willing to travel, those who are willing to live far away from families in the days of the week, who are going to be penalised financially, that they are going to get more tax? Is it politics for most people, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e216	The government’s budget continues to facilitate the reduction of tax pressure in Norway. The profile of the tax reliefs in this budget means that about half go to families with incomes of 600,000 or less, and 88 pst. the taxpayers receive unchanged or lower taxes under this scheme. Then it's absolutely right that the government has proposed to remove the deduction for diet and Losji, but it's a deduction that has expired. I fully agree that we depend on having people around is willing to commute. That is why we also need good arrangements for commuters in Norway. But this is a deduction you give to go home and make food. This means that many other taxpayers who also go home and make food, but who do not get this deduction, are involved in subsidising the group that gets it. Then I think it is much better to use that money to give tax relief to all the people of the country, to help more people come to work, that more people can live on their own income. I think it's a much better way to spend taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e223	It's a wonderful thing to listen to Minister of Finance Siv Jensen, because in the election campaign she promised, for example. a large tax cut for those who were to live in their own home, but when we read the State budget, it says that there is a new system for the introduction of property taxes. Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, did not promise any tax incentives to those who have to live outside their own homes, but it is introduced. She says it has expired. Only in my own municipality, Stage, will there now be a new brackish rig, 200 workers will live on a brackish rig. There are many who have a practical job and have to travel a long time at work, have to stay outside the home, have two households and have extra costs with it. It is easy for Siv Jensen to say that it has expired, for she lives in a different reality. Many live in a practical everyday life, a practical reality where you have to travel far to get work. What's wrong with that, and why is it that group of people – those who have to go far, those who have the disadvantages – who get more tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e230	As I said, there's nothing wrong with being commuting, rather on the contrary. It's important that people are willing to move to get work. I'm very happy that a lot of people do it. But this is really not a deduction from commuting. This is a deduction from 1927, and it's essentially about getting a deduction from going home to a place where you have cooking facilities and preparing food. It's something most of us do every single day, no matter what kind of work situation we're in. Is one not in a situation where you have cooking facilities, either on the furniture or at home, gets one also deducted. I think that sounds reasonable and correct. I also want to remind the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, that the group that uses this deduction the most in all is people in the central East and people who do not live in Norway. There are many reasons to make changes in this and release this money, so that we can give relief to the entire population instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e237	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingrid Heggø. The right-wing party government is about to leave what has been a major goal for most governments in Norway, simply to use the whole country. This sees, for example: in the draft budget on cuts in regional development funds, food funds, broadband, travel life, small rural roads, and local authorities will not actually be able to afford to recruit so many new teachers. The WebDithering Pot has been reduced from around 140 million. kr under the Stoltenberg Government and is zero in full in the draft budget of the year. There is no alternative proposal to smoothing the web page. Merging the web companies will not give lower web rentals without large cities inside the image, and it will thus not give any randomization as monks throughout the country. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is fair and proper that districts should develop nature and be a battery – a renewable battery – for Norway – and that this should be paid by residents and businesses in the districts by increasing the number of rents on the Internet?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e246	I totally disagree with the claim that this government is about to leave the main goal of using the whole country. Where in the world did the representative come from? Rather, it is the opposite of having a good and competitive tax system benefits business throughout the country. The reintroduction and improvement of the system of differentiated employer charges is definitely a measure that benefits the district workplaces. The fact that we are now proposing to remove the property tax on machines is also an incredibly important tool, which I am excited about whether the Center Party will support in its alternative budget. It is one of the most important things we can do to secure the district jobs in this country. Our continuing to expand infrastructure across the country means something for the prosperity and distance to markets, that we are betting on education, on research, to facilitate good business practice – the sum of which makes it easier for businesses to be around the country, and that people can live across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e251	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e256	No, it's not true that the tax system that the government has today is helping to bring the whole country into use. Just take the cuts that the government has made in the wealth tax: Where is the wealth in this country? They're not spread evenly across the whole country, but they've piled up in a few regions, especially in the region we're in right now, and in parts of the West. If the tax regime were to help bring the whole country into use, one would have set up completely different types of framework. What has the government done? Yeah, she's running a fisheries policy where it's not the fishing communities that's good, and it's an agricultural policy where it's definitely not the whole country that's being used. One has a business policy where a cut in the tools that one has documented is very good for using the whole country. One cuts heavily in them – 300 million. kr only this year. In addition, cutbacks occur by halving in relation to broadband, ports and regional development media. My question is, what is the reason why the government is so busy protecting the richest in this country, and so absolutely not using the whole country, by cutting in all the tools we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e261	The President will remind you that the starting point was the commuter question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e266	It was district policy, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e271	It is an honest thing that SV wants to increase the tax for those who want to create jobs in this country. I disagree. There is a broad consensus in this house, in Stortinget, that we should continue to reduce the tax on working capital. The government has followed up on the government budget for next year. In addition, we have proposed improvements for district workplaces by proposing the removal of property taxes on machinery and equipment. We have reintroduced the differentiated employer fee, we have reduced the total tax burden by over 3 billion. kr, and the profile of this means that about half of the benefits to this government go to households with incomes of NOK 600 000 or less. But again: It is a very honest matter that SV goes to fight against lower taxes and will sharpen them. This means, in reality, that creating new jobs in the private sector is becoming more difficult, and that is the prerequisite for more people to get to work and less to social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e277	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e282	Back to the question concerning commuters: I noticed once again that the Swedish Council of State Siv Jensen pushed foreign workers in front of him. The Progress Party has been one of the leading promoters of unregulated labour immigration, which has led to pressures on pay and working conditions, not least in the practical professions. In addition – with its background – one should now deduct Norwegian workers from diet and Losji. According to the tax rate, four out of five of those who receive this deduction are Norwegian workers. It's harder, the people who built the country. Why in the world should a take away from them this right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e287	As I answered the question from the representative of the Battle of Vedum, the government's main reason for removing the deduction to go home and eat food is that it is better to spend that money on giving tax relief to everyone. I see no good reason for the taxpayers who do not get this deduction, who go home and cook food, to subsidize someone who cannot do it in his own home, but on a shelf. The important thing is that you have cooking opportunities. Then the purpose of this deduction has expired. There is much better and much more accurate tax policy to facilitate tax pressures for all households. Therefore, the government has proposed to remove this deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e292	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e297	Having good rights for commuters is one of the important measures to ensure housing in rural areas as well. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that its integrity is properly maintained. As many have experienced during this round, several measures are also demanding in the budget when thinking about districts. I'll especially take up cut in broadband funds, because a few businesses will flourish around the country, which is what Siv Jensen is busy about, needs one also broadband. And to ensure that the settlement is maintained, broadband is also an important key. I'd like to drill a little bit more in the government's argument about why it's important to cut broadband funds. The pot is halved, from approx. 140 million. kr to approx. 70 million. kr. Isn't that pot important to trigger investment, to secure broadband for the whole country and to secure housing and business?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e304	Once again, the President would remind us that broadband may be a bit peripheral to the commuter question – but the Siv Jensen Council would like to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e309	I can at least answer that I look forward with excitement to the negotiations that are about to take place between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the budget. I am absolutely sure that the Christian People's Party has a well-thought-out list of things they want to change in the budget. However, I would like to say in general – because some of the questions that come to mind make it appear that the 2018 budget is a cut budget – that the starting point is a growing budget. It is a budget where the positive development of the Norwegian economy is the basis. Now the arrows point in the right direction. Freedom goes down, the growth of the economy goes up. It has given us a greater scope for action to facilitate more jobs in order to ensure sustainable welfare systems. So the starting point is amazing. Then it's a very honest thing that the parties in the Storting have different priorities. It's basically because it's about – it's about prioritizing. The government has done that, and I hope, of course, that the Christian People's Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e318	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e323	Yesterday, the NRK reported a further IT scandal in the health sector. Foreign employees of a company in Israel have had access to the private and sensitive patient information of the North. People should know that their private health information is not shared with people who are not supposed to have access – think of the young girl who has recently had an abortion, the boy who received treatment after an assault, or the woman who suffers from cancer and will soon die, but does not want everyone to know it yet. But these IT workers in Israel have had access to our patient information. This isn't the first time. A few months have passed since the Minister of Health and Health last had to answer for the lack of security of our personal information. Just a few months ago, we learned that over 100 IT staff from Bulgaria, Malaysia and India had received data rights that gave access to the most intimate patient records to 2.8 million Norwegians. In the letter to the Control Committee on 15 May 2017, the Minister for Health and Welfare wrote that ‘only persons legally admitted shall have access to sensitive data’. After our revelations, we figured that all of the holes would be sealed immediately. We thought this was under control. We thought the Minister of Health and Health had control. Can the Council of State now guarantee that no unauthorised person has access to our sensitive personal data?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e336	The reply to the Control Committee addresses the issue of the basic ICT infrastructure in Health South-East. Posting it to external actors is a work that is under threat, precisely to ensure that solutions are found to the challenges of modernising the health infrastructure in the south-east, so that one does what is not least important in order to ensure the safety and security of patient information, in a good and safe way. The matter to which the representative refers relates to access to medical and technical equipment in hospitals. It will not be possible to operate a modern healthcare service today without having medical-technical equipment that has also been supplied by foreign actors. It is also not possible to operate healthcare today without the possibility for suppliers to operate the service and upgrade on this equipment, so that the hospital can actually operate often 24 hours a day. However, this is an access that must take place in a safe, secure and regulated way, where a person knows both who has access and has control of what access he has. In the case to which I referred, unregulated access was discovered and closed. In order for this work to be given even more attention, I have given a mission to the Directorate for e-Health, where, during the autumn, they will now come up with an investigation into just what kind of legislation and systems will be associated with having a safe and secure way of regulating this, so that one does not risk losing important patient information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e345	I notice that the Council of State does not now guarantee that our patient information is not still on the way. It is not reassuring for us in SV, and we will therefore send a letter to the Presidency to get the Council of State to the Stortinge for a proper and thorough explanation of this. Already in 2015, repeated in 2016, SV in Stortinget proposed that the government propose measures to reduce the vulnerability of ICT systems. Bent Höie's party, Right, voted here in Stortinget down these proposals. I hope that the Council of State now sees the wisdom of the SV's proposal. We've messed up involving foreign actors. We've been messing with external companies and sensitive personal information. Experiments in deploying large and important parts of our infrastructure without proper security must end. At the meeting with Health South-East on 15 September 2016, the Ministry of Health and Health took a decision to allow financial leasing for the large ICT systems. Does the Council of State now regret that decision when he sees what has led us into this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e357	Once again, the representative combines two different things. The case which the representative referred to at the end, which was about the basic ICT infrastructure in Health South-East, is after it was discovered that one in the transition phase in which one was in, was unable to address these issues adequately, put in rest. I think the representative has also brought that. With regard to the question which was the starting point for the representative, namely access granted to medical-technical devices, it is largely for medical-technical devices in Norway and other countries, simply because it is not possible, as I was told, to operate modern health services today without medical-technical equipment supplied by foreign actors. These must be able to operate the service and upgrade that equipment. Of course, in order to do that work in a safe and secure way, there are rules around it, but there is also a separate mandate given to the Directorate for e-Health, which will soon also make recommendations, and that is on my initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e364	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e369	It is in many ways the same thing that we are discussing, even though the minister is trying to say that there are two different things. It's about privacy, it's about the security of one third of Norway's population's most sensitive data that's gone astray, and one actually doesn't know – shows the report from PwC, among others. – whether this information has fallen into the hands of those who can take advantage of that information directly to their patients. We don't know anything about this. This security hole has come to the Minister of Health guard. On previous occasions and through the Control Committee, we have asked a series of questions in which the Minister has tried to explain that this is something which is now to begin to take control, and then all of a sudden this comes back. The simple question is whether the minister has control or whether it is now out of control. Can the Council of State guarantee that unaccompanied actors in other countries do not have access to person-sensitive information in Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e376	Once again, in this PwC report, which is the first case to which a referee refers, it becomes very clear that it is very unlikely that patient information is going astray. It is also clearly documented in the survey work that has been carried out. Regarding the question of whether foreign actors have access to patient-sensitive information, the answer is yes: Foreign actors have access to patient-sensitive information, because it is not possible to operate a modern healthcare service today without access by foreign actors to medical-technical devices that also contain patient-sensitive information. If you hadn't had the opportunity, we wouldn't have had the opportunity to run a modern health service in Norway. At that time our hospitals had been closed pending e.g. maintenance, repair of equipment and upgrade of computer goods. The patient had been severely affected. What is important is that that access takes place in a controlled and secure way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e383	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e388	The IT scandal in Health South-East shows a vulnerability that the Minister of Health must take most seriously. The Minister of Health has in this room several times in the past given assurances that he will obtain the full overview and take the necessary steps to put an end to the access granted and which should not have been granted. Now the new information came this week, and it is tempting to ask the Council of State if he was familiar with that information. Then it is also tempting to ask the Council of State, the Minister of Health – when he refers to a mission the Directorate of e-Health will get to create these frameworks, when we know that we are already in the mood to make new, large purchases in the health platform in Middle Norway and the situation in Health South-East is not resolved with the situation you now have – if he knew this. Does he have a full overview, and is it considered sufficient, with the ongoing processes, to send an investigative mission to the Directorate for e-Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e393	The investigation mission has been sent. We're waiting for delivery. The size was informed before the summer that the assignment was given. It is about the issue raised by the representative Wilkinson, namely that one is dependent on having a private subcontractor for medical-technical equipment and how that type of access is to be regulated. Parallel work is also underway on this issue, which is also relevant for other social sectors, under the auspices of the National Safety Authority. They will also make their recommendations. Just because this government takes these kinds of issues very seriously, it is a comprehensive work that has been undertaken — which is also related to the draft new safety law, which has also been delivered to the Stortinget. The question relating to the basic infrastructure in Health South-East is a work which is being asked pending the fact that Health South-East is just going to clarify the questions before choosing which way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e400	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e405	The main quality mark of the Norwegian healthcare system is that there is great confidence in the population, and the worst thing that a health minister can be responsible for is a development that causes this confidence to be demolished. Of course, when the Norwegian people now feel that sensitive patient information is being diverted, this basic trust is rocking. This matter is more serious than the Minister of Health understands. In Sweden, a similar IT scandal has occurred with a leak of detailed information about Swedish bridges, metro, road and track. The Prime Minister of Sweden calls this a disaster. There were significant political consequences that two councillors had to go. When we now – again – experience that information on sensitive patient data is on the wane, despite the fact that many health care professionals have taken responsibility and left the post, my question is: Will the Council continue to push healthcare professionals ahead of itself? Or what will he do to secure an ICT and infrastructure in Norway that is trusted by the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e412	I fully agree with the representative that it is essential for the public to have confidence that healthcare manages their patient-sensitive information in a safe and good manner, that there are clear rules for access and clear access control systems, and that this is monitored and managed in a good manner, so that any errors are detected. But it is also important that not this representative, and other representatives who have been on the pulpit, assume that patient-sensitive information is being diverted. I am not familiar with patient-sensitive information, but I am aware that in connection with the major case in Health South-East, there were accesses that should not have been there and that I have been informed that now is closed. I am aware that in this specific case, which the representative Wilkinson mentioned, and which I did not know before it became public in the media, there had also been an access which was not in line with the legislation and which was stopped. But that doesn't mean that patient-sensitive information is going astray.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e417	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e423	We have been through a number of rounds — to put it that way — revealing safety culture in different sectors in Norway, and now we have come to the health sector. The water and sewer kit in Oslo had a code that was 0000 for login, and it was well known among many. It seems that we are now in doubt whether we have a similar culture in the health sector, at least in parts of it, in Norway approaching zero. The fact that medical devices – here we are talking about x-ray equipment, and it has all hospitals – are operated from abroad may be so, but if there is a culture with great access and with security holes out of Norway, the Minister of Health can never guarantee that something is not going wrong. The challenge here is how we ensure an understanding of what is to be managed in Norway and what can be operated from abroad, and build a security culture that is in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e430	I fully agree with the representative that it is extremely important that healthcare has good systems in this area. That is also one of the reasons why, when the Riksrevision early in – here I have to take it to memory – in 2014 came up with a report on this that showed this type of hole, it was a clear mission from me to the health regions to work on getting better systems in this area. In addition, I have given a clear assignment to the Health Directorate. In the new safety law presented by the government, there is also a greater focus on vulnerability in ICT infrastructure. This is a work that is extremely important to continuously improve. As the representative had in mind, medical-technical devices are devices that are necessarily dependent on being supplied by foreign actors. This discussion does not have to be reduced to a discussion about whether or not we should have equipment supplied from abroad, because then we will not have the opportunity to operate a modern healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e435	Olaug V. Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e440	A few weeks ago, the Health Directorate presented a report highlighting ICT as a major risk area in the health sector. It is noted that ICT systems may fall out due to hacking or errors. In addition, important information can actually be diverted, and privacy may be threatened. The report also states that many players are often involved in the ICT systems of the Norwegian health system, and that in itself is a risk factor. Many actors have asked for a coherent and stronger governance of the ICT systems in the Norwegian healthcare system and for them to talk together and be unambiguous. There is broad agreement on the need for stronger national governance. So my question to the Council of State is, when the risk area is so large, when we talk about foreign actors, about Norwegian actors, about doctors and nurses in this system: what does the Council of State do to take national action to deal with the entire ICT system, to deal with this risk area?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e447	I immediately took those arrests when I took responsibility as Minister of Health. The first thing I did was order three comprehensive reports that described this whole situation, and it was a serious situation that emerged in the three reports. That is why I was totally dependent on taking a stronger national governance in this area. The first was to pass a law in Stortinget that provided the basis for having a modern infrastructure in healthcare. It was forbidden under the old law, so it was not possible to get it either. The second was to do something so unusual – for a Right Party government – as to set up a new directorate, a directorate for e-health, to ensure stronger national governance with the development of the entire sector. The third step was to establish National ICT HF as a joint owned company between the four regions, in order also to ensure stronger coordination. In the budget currently under consideration by the Stortinge, it is proposed to allocate 55 million. kr, precisely to ensure a common municipal solution for municipal health and care services in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e454	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e459	I understand that the Health Minister understands that I am going to ask him a question. A research group from the SERAF, the Center for Drug and Addiction Research at the University of Oslo, has drawn international attention to a study of long-term injections of the Naltrekson instrument. Treatment involves blocking all effects of heroin and other opioids, as well as alcohol and amphetamines, for four weeks at a time. I do not know whether 'news' is a parliamentary expression, President, but that is actually what the addicts become using long-acting Naltrakson. The active substance reduces the cravings for alcohol and effectively prevents overdose hazards from being used by opiates. This allows families to live almost normal, as reports in the media have shown. The study is published in the well-known journal JAMA Psychiatry and is the first of its kind in Western Europe. A total of 165 opiate addicts have participated, among others. at the Hospital in Vestfold. The study has been funded by the Norwegian Research Council and several health companies. I am sure the Council of State agrees with me that the study is very uplifting, and that such projects are important to continue in order to develop and improve LAR, medically assisted rehabilitation, for the heaviest opiate dependent users. Will the Minister of Health facilitate the continuation and extension of such research projects, and is the use of Naltraxone in LAR treatment considered in the ongoing revision of the national guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e470	I fully agree with the representative that we need more research and development related to drug treatment, both in Norway and internationally. We have received an application and have had a meeting with Lars Tanum in this case. In that meeting we informed that the Ministry of Health and Welfare does not, of course, have own funding for research. We provide these funds through regional health companies and through the Research Council. This is important precisely in order to ensure scientific quality, the independence of research, and also the prioritisation of research projects on a professional basis in line with the needs of the service. So that's what's the way in if one wants more funding for research. In the case of this case, which concerns Naltraxone, there is a medicinal product that is not authorised for marketing in Norway and, according to the Swedish National Medicines Agency, there is no pending application for a marketing authorisation for long-acting Naltraxone when used in opiate dependence. It is in the case of the company that manufactures the medicinal product that has to apply for it. The Health Directorate is now working on revising the guidelines for the treatment of opiate dependent patients, and in this context the Directorate also wants to assess a broader choice of medicinal products for patients seeking medicinal products as part of the treatment. The Health Directorate has also ordered a knowledge summary of possible new drugs that may be effective and can be recommended in the new guidelines. Naltraxone could be one of the medicinal products considered, provided, of course, that the necessary authorisations are provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e481	I think we can expect that there will be such an application quite soon. As for the doctor Lars Tanum mentioned, he actually felt encouraged to apply to the department for funds to pursue and continue this study. He is – with all due respect, the Council of State – rather disappointed by the rejection, or what he sees as a rejection. There is a widespread perception both in the treatment apparatus and among addicts that Norwegian doctors are unnecessarily restrictive in changing medications in LAR treatment. This is not due to rigidity in doctors, but simply to unclear guidelines. And such approval procedures to which the Council of State refers here take very long experience. Is there anything the Minister of Health can do to speed up this treatment period?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e492	As far as research funding is concerned, I think it is important that we uphold the principle that it is not political management or the Ministry of Health and Welfare that allocates research funds to various research projects, and that is particularly important in medical research. Norway is about to contribute to one percent of medical research in the world. All medical research is international, knowledge is internationally available, and we therefore need to ensure that the funds used by Norway in research are used in those areas where we have the best assumptions. And with respect to reporting: I don't think the Ministry of Health and Welfare – or the undersigned – is the right to decide which research projects have the best quality. But we spend a lot of money on research, both through health regions and through the Research Council. I also think it would be an unfortunate signal to drug addicts if we were to have lower requirements for the standard of research related to drugs for drug addicts than the research on drugs for other patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e499	It opens for follow-up questions - first Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e505	This is actually a very good theme to include in question time. We are discussing heroin treatment, etc. Very much, but this is a fantastic experiment. I myself have visited Health Bergen and talked to those who work with these patients, and they have very good results. Not least, many people who are not happy to be in LAR treatment may get out of it and become completely restless. It works in a very brilliant way, by blocking the effect of heroin, blocking the opioid receptors, so that you don't get the intoxication. So it's very good that there's political notice about it. It has also been shown by the Health Committee in several comments on the State budget. My question is whether there is anything the Minister of Health can do to get this approved to become a national project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e512	With regard to further research on medicinal products, the direct advice we have given researchers is that health regions have significant resources for medical research, and will probably be the place where the easiest funding will be possible. The alternative is to apply for the Research Council. As regards the authorisation of the medicinal product itself, it must be done in the same way as with all other medicinal products. There we rely on those who manufacture the medicinal product to seek authorisation for the use of this medicinal product for that purpose in Norway. I'm not aware that they've done that. But I fully agree with the representative that it is very positive and very good that this type of research and testing is already taking place in Norway today. It is also important, in particular, that this be done in parallel with the current siting of the Health Directorate and concrete assessment of the types of medicinal products to be available through medically assisted rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e519	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e524	The results for Naltraxon are very uplifting. However, as all research shows, the drug has to be viewed in conjunction with the rest of the treatment given, and drug treatment is very complex. Drug policy in Norway is not working well enough. 24 700 issues related exclusively to drug use and possession have been reported. 48 million. Dr has been fined on drug addicts, especially in Oslo and Bergen, and in 2015 we had 289 drugrelated deaths. The Council of State itself has been out there saying that he wants to launch an investigation into a comprehensive drug policy reform in Norway, where we are moving the follow-up of drug addicts from the justice sector to the health and care sector. We in SV want this to happen as soon as possible, and we wonder if the Minister of Health can tell us when the Stortinget will have a case of a comprehensive drug reform in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e531	It is quite true, we have challenges in Norway — as in many other countries — linked to the fact that too many drug addicts have been met with punishment and fines rather than help, and that it has helped to build a barrier to helping either master the best possible life in an addiction situation or get out of a dependency situation. It has been an important matter for me to change the position of my own party in that matter, and I am pleased that we have been given the opportunity to do so. I record that very many other parties have done the same thing, and that it is actually a majority of the Stortinget who want it today. I have to come back to answering what will be the government's initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e538	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e543	These are promising drugs for a vulnerable group, which can deliver very good results for this patient group. It's a patient group that today has a very rigid health service that's hit through the LAR. It would be gratifying if there were results that would quickly make the medicinal product a part of the LAR, and if these frameworks were extended, so that they would be treated for these very ill people instead of what has been more traditional — moral indignation and punishment in the utmost consequence. The Council of State explains that it will not be possible to expedite an authorisation process, that it will follow normal processes, as for other medicinal products. My question to the Council of State is whether the government is planning a new overdose plan and whether he sees the possibility that it can be far more effective to use these new drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e550	In the case of medicinal products entering medically assisted rehabilitation, work is well under way. The Health Directorate has just ordered a knowledge summary related to new medicinal products which may be effective and which may therefore be included in the recommendation in the new guidelines for medically assisted rehabilitation. I fully agree with the representative that that kind of question is primarily professional, rather than political. Therefore, it is important that those questions are based on knowledge and such a knowledge summary has been ordered. This medicinal product could then be evaluated, in line with other alternatives. This government has put forward and implemented its own national strategy against overdose, and we are, of course, closely monitoring its effectiveness. And then we have to consider whether to extend or renew the overdose strategy when it goes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e557	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e562	I have a question for the Minister of Industry, because in Stortinget on 10 January 2017, it was decided that the government would issue a food law. 60,000 tons of food is thrown every year from the grocery stores, and we have people who have to lay low. We have volunteers who want to be a link here and who want to be part of and improve that situation. So Stortinget said that more food should be in the stomach of those who need it, and less should be in the broom. Now it's almost a year, and we've got a government budget back where it's finally coming back about this deal that was to come. The submission to the State budget states: ‘The distribution concludes that there appears to be no need for a food law at this time.’ I know that this is something in the agricultural budget, but it is the Minister of Industry who is responsible for the daily food industry. In the period 2010–2015, this industry has cut its food waste by 12 p.m., although the target was double, i.e. 25 p.m. It was a goal they said they could manage to reach, but they couldn't do it with the tools we had. The industry agreement with the key players is good, but does the Council believe that a food law could not be in and better this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e569	I believe that we all agree, both consumers, food operators, the food industry – absolutely everyone – that it is being thrown too much, and that we want to act in such a way that it is thrown less. I also see that good action has been taken by some actors related to both date stamping, offers and agreements with ideals. That's very good. I am among those who do not believe that we can legitimize everything we are for, or defame everything we are against, or that is dangerous, or that is unhealthy. I believe in good cooperation between the public and the actors. We've seen that, and we have more examples of that. Together with the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, I had a meeting with the actors in my time to deal with the palm oil problem. We know that the Minister of Health has signed an agreement with the actors related to sugar – although it seems to have a little bad ‘dip’ by day. I think it can take important initiatives without legalising it – simply because what we need is not necessarily more laws and regulations, more bureaucracy, more reporting. Our goal is to reduce the reporting requirements for business, and then I think we're going to spend the time establishing good agreements, good ways of dealing with this, which contributes to the purpose we want, that's less feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e577	Thanks for the answer. Norway has committed itself and given a stronger commitment when it comes to how we're going to get rid of food spills through the UN's yield targets, which says half of our food spills must be gone by 2030. If you look at the downturn we've had, the ones we've been working on now, and using the tools that the Council of State pointed to, we're far from being able to achieve the goal we've seen. If we follow the rate we have, at best we have a halve in 2040. Some of the grips that are taken in the industry are very good, but they are the easiest grips, one has picked the fruits that hang the lowest. If we're going to be able to achieve the measurements we've seen, we actually need a little bit stronger tilt, because everyone cut won't be profitable. How will the Council of State ensure that the daily food industry can take an even greater share of the responsibility for achieving the goals we have seen towards 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e584	I will not answer for the assessments made by the Minister of Agriculture on this bill – or the request to assess it. That question must almost be addressed to him. What I think is good is that we have achieved a cut of 12 pst. I don't think one should germinate out of it. It's often like when you start a job, that it's the lowest hanging fruits that are the easiest to pick. Then you have to work even harder, but I insist that legalizing or prohibiting all the actions we are in favour of or against is not the answer to all the challenges we have. We have to work harder with the industry. I am absolutely sure that we all have the same motivation to do something about this, and that the actors themselves can come up with good suggestions to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e591	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e596	At this stage, the government believes that there is no need for legal regulation. At this point, we throw 60,000 tons of food a year that people needed in hungry stomachs. At the moment, the Blue Cross has to close one of its contact points where they distribute food, because they don't have enough food to distribute to those who need it the most. People walk away with empty stomachs and empty bags. In this state budget, the government cuts to Matvett and Matsentralen, and there are important actors to get food for those who distribute. My question to the Council of State is: When she answers that there is no need for legal regulation, what will she do to facilitate that the food is not thrown into the bosom, but comes in the stomach that needs it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e603	So both the bill and the cutbacks the representative referred to are on another department's budget, and of course I cannot go into it. What I can do is appeal to business. My experience is that business is taking important steps. They do it in terms of the environment, they do it in many areas that are important and right for us – without going our way on legislative proposals. That is why I believe that we need to work even more hard and get good solutions together with the parties in the food industry and the food industry. I would like to take such an initiative with the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e608	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e613	The most important thing here is well to find a positive willingness to do something about a big problem. 350,000 tonnes are thrown each year in Norway — large parts from households, but a large part from the food chain. It is positive to bet on food centres, to bet on industry agreements, but there is no doubt that this area also needs to be regulated. It is a little alarming that the government investigation that was published a few days ago is, as well, more of an explanation of why there is no need to regulate this serious problem. I am a little surprised when I experience that conclusion. Why should we not regulate such an important area, which drains us of resources, burdens the environment and climate, but not least when there are great values in the loss? So reporting something in this area would be a great strength – if you had regulated the area. Therefore, I am amazed that regulation does not take place, and hope that the government can change its mind on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e618	My main ambition for business is to make simplifications. My main ambition is to free time from reporting to value creation. It was an ambition I thought I might have shared especially with the Workers' Party, which started an important simplification work. So the answer to all the challenges is not that we need more reporting, we need more rules, and we need new laws and rules. I don't think that's the way to go. Now I cannot explain the concrete assessments made in connection with this legislative proposal, because it is in another department, but I am absolutely sure that we can get good and even better solutions together with business in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e623	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e628	The power in the food value chain is largely found in three major food chains — the Norway group, the REMA 1000 and the Coop. When the government says no to the food cast, it joins into a pattern where one does not want to regulate this power, which is collected on so few hands. Ein has said no to the law of good trade. Competition supervision has a passive approach to the daily food chain. Now we're approaching a Christmas holiday, and one would like to talk nice about respect for food and no about cooking, but also this Christmas I think we'd like to see a cell for example. pig ribs are cheaper than dog fat. So my question is, is it the government's will to take a tougher hold and take a grip on the daily food power, or will a continue this cautious approach that one has had in the last four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e633	I'm not doing my very best – and I'm doing my very best – to see the relationship between a food law and the competitive situation in the food market. I don't understand that, but I'm sure my imagination will fail as to what reasoning the representative here has based. What I can confirm is that in this area too, this government is going to intensify its efforts to help ensure that concentration does not increase, and that we also look at powerful measures to what we can do with the status quo. The law to which the representative referred was not intended to address the competitive situation. It is stated in the foreword to the law that this was not the intention. We've had an investigation on trade barriers. There are a number of proposals that we have at the hearing. We have also been able to assess our own intervention in the Competition Act which is also being consulted. We're going to take that hearing seriously, call the parties to a meeting and see what action we can take.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e639	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e644	We have been shown in this inquiry that a large amount of food is also being thrown into Norway. These are resources on the way. My question to the Council of State is: When will the government instruct Norwegian municipalities to sort out the food waste as proposed by the Environment Directorate in January this year, so that these resources can be conserved and processed into e.g. biogas?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e649	I understand that the Minister for Climate and Environment is missing here today. This is a question that belongs to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, and to which the Minister of Climate Change must answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e654	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e659	My question goes to the Minister of Health: Before the summer of 2017, the Council of State writes in response to the Stortinget that the system of free treatment should stimulate public health services to become more effective, and is not intended to undermine public hospitals. Well, now calls trust-chosen and responsible professionals alert. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 19 October, elected representatives of Stavanger University Hospital and Health Stavanger describe how Højre's performance project leads to the weak losing the fight for good and accessible health care and treatment. According to director of Health West, hospitals in the West have 80 million in 2017. kr less to walk with. Stavanger University Hospitals have not received funds to provide more and better treatment to mentally ill and addicted people. Animal treatment sites without a proven better treatment effect in the free-treatment selection system are paid by the same pot to cover the entire group of patients with drug problems and psychiatric disorders. It has had so extensive financial consequences that the hospital is now discussing the psychiatric bedpost they are going to lay down. Thus, the Right’s policy has led to a worse offer for patient groups to be lifted than before, and many fear a further downsizing of the close public offer in the Stavanger region, Bent Höie’s home region. According to the Council of State, the urgent hospital budget must therefore give priority to ideological curvatures in front of the treatment of patients, and in this case the Council of State will give more attention to the promises of Right healthcare than the patient's healthcare. What arguments does the Council of State believe justify the continuation of free treatment options, when we see that it weakens public health services and in the long term an equivalent health provision for all patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e666	I hear that the tone from the Workers' Party has now received a whole new sound. While I have previously had to stand here in the Questionnaire and answer that free treatment options are not used enough, the criticism is now that it is being used too much. Yes, free treatment is becoming more and more popular among patients. One of the main reasons for this is that patients are given the opportunity to choose a treatment in which they have basic faith. Not least, it is important for people with drug dependence and people with mental health challenges. Many of them have tried treatment that is close and public many times, without getting better, and that is just one of the main reasons why many of them want to use other alternatives. I am pleased that free treatment options facilitate that very thing. Claiming that this affects healthcare is a little special, given that these private actors are paid less than the cost of providing similar treatment in the public sector. they receive a payment less than the price obtained; If the Workers' Party had reached through with its policies, abolished free treatment choices, fewer patients would have been helped, and those who had been helped would have had less freedom of choice. I've met some of these patients. I have met people who have been coerced into mental health, not only 50 times, not only 100 times, but even more than that, and who have now been given free treatment and see that they have finally found a treatment offer that they actually experience helping. The treatment offer, which in this specific case is about the Hurdal Lake Recovery Centre, had not had the opportunity to give to anyone other than those who could pay for it themselves, it would not have been for free treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e677	So the Council of State does not respond to why Stavanger University Hospital has to discuss which bedlinen to lay down for these vulnerable patients. In the vocabulary, the Council of State points out that there is freedom of choice that is the highest value here, that's what's going to make the big difference. Well, public treatment centres for rubrics account for more than 200 different offers today, including private and non-profit establishments that have contracts with health care establishments. These are freely available. Patients can choose them, use their high-value freedom of choice to get the treatment they are entitled to, but only a handful of people are offered free treatment. The new voice from the Workers' Party – the fact that there is a difference between me and a man, as it was before – I can't do so much with it. But does the Council of State feel that if you remove free treatment options, the rubrics will lose their freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e686	Yes, a number of addicts will lose their freedom of choice because there are several drug institutions that do not have an agreement with the public or sufficient agreement with the public to survive. For example, Karmsund ABR Centres, which offer drug addicts good treatment, have now also established a private secondary school, which at the same time provides education. They would not be able to operate with the public agreement they have today, because it is far too small for it to be billable. It is an offer that would be in danger of being closed if the Workers' Party had won the election in the autumn. And there are a number of other similar institutions across the country. Drug addicts are now experiencing a dramatic decline in waiting time. The waiting time for addicts now is close to 30 days. A lot more people get help. The next year, we're also going to introduce drug addicts' package schedules, so that they get more coherent help.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e693	It opens for one follow-up question – from Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e698	A central part — and the most important part — of free treatment options is that hospitals are required to purchase services from private individuals through supply. That's what's demanding now when one across the country gets feedback that public hospitals have to cut their supply to next year. In Bergen we are told that Health Bergen must cut between 150 and 170 million. kr. They shall reduce the number of beds by between 50 and 60. And at Sunnmøre, we're told that Health Møre and Romsdal have to cut 160 settings to next year, because they have a budget challenge of 219 million. kr. My question is whether the Council of State will still impose on public hospitals an increase in purchases from private people through free treatment options when public hospitals are in the situation they are currently in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e707	With regard to the economic situation in hospitals, it is that through the five budgets presented by this government, and the four that we have adopted, we have, in sum, allocated money to a higher growth in patient treatment than the last government has been able to for eight years. In other words, three years shorter time and higher growth in patient treatment. We have facilitated a record high level of investment in hospitals. It is invested in both construction and ICT, the hospital queues are shorter, the waiting time is the shortest that has ever been since it began to be measured. So it is that yes, there are several hospitals that have challenges that they have not managed to keep their budgets during 2017. But one cannot blame for free treatment because the public hospitals are unable to keep the budgets they have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e717	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e731	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Climate and Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative of Mr Wilkinson to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who directs him. Question 8, from the representative Carl-Erik Grimstad to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e760	The question from the wholesale representative relates to the qualification requirements for obtaining central approval and for the declaration of responsibility in construction matters. Due to a judgment of the EFTA Court, we had to suspend the system of local approval of undertakings. Local approval was based on the fact that, prior to granting a building permit, municipalities assessed the qualifications of the enterprise. The system of local approval was replaced by a declaration of liability by undertakings themselves. In order to reduce some of the unfortunate effects of the disappearance of local authorisation, the central approval voluntary scheme was strengthened in 2016. One of the measures was to clarify the training and practice requirements, which are a central element of the qualification requirements of enterprises. The clarification consisted in the transfer to the regulation of a table listing the educational level and practice requirements previously included in guidance. No changes were made to the content of the requirements themselves. Training and practice requirements for performing enterprises, including machine operators, have remained unchanged since 1997. An important part of the background for shifting qualification requirements from guidance to regulation was to ensure that all enterprises – including those from other EEA countries – were treated equally. Where reference is made to the retroactive effect of the qualification requirement provision, I believe that this is intended to ensure that undertakings that have applied for the renewal of the central approval have experienced that they have not been granted the same authorisation as before. As mentioned above, the qualification requirements for performing undertakings have been the same all the time. When the amendments to the regulation began to apply from 1 January 2016, it turned out that the clarification of qualification requirements came surprisingly to many. For some, this also had unfortunate consequences. After further examination, it became apparent that the qualification requirements had been practised more lightly than the legislation strictly provided for. One consequence of this was that companies had been granted a central authorisation which they would not have strictly had. I therefore have a strong understanding that the modest practice that has been used in the past meant that companies were expected to continue to be given great weight to real competences. When I came to know about this, we introduced a transitional arrangement for companies applying for the renewal of their central approval. Those undertakings may be assessed in accordance with the same qualification requirements as were practised before 1 January 2016. This implies emphasising the real competence of the undertaking together with formal competence. We are about to have a reassessment of qualification requirements at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e783	I thank you for your answer. In addition to this coming as a surprise to the industry, others have come up with this as a surprise, which has been much closer to the decision-making processes. Let me quote from the Roman journal of 16 October of this year: ‘The retroactive effect of the scheme is devastating for small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country. Required taste of desks and bureaucracies, and total absence of practical sense’;» says Julie Brodtkorb, who is today the Managing Director of the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, and who should be well known to the Council of State as well. Now that we have taken on new knowledge and a new reality, can we expect from the Council of State now announced that one will take over the everyday life of the companies and make sure that one does not encounter the problems described by the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e795	Let me first remind you why we have strengthened the system of central voluntary recognition. It's to combat work-life crime. It is based on a report that I asked the industries themselves to produce. The report is: it's easier to be serious. An important requirement from the industry has been that there should be qualification requirements. It was assumed that the qualification requirements had now been the same as those that have been in use since 1997. So these requirements have been managed in a more modest way. When we discovered it, we provided a transitional arrangement. There has been close dialogue with the different industries during this period, but I assume that the representative Gegelsvik is also aware that there are different views between the industries, so when Gülsvik now takes the position of the machine contractors, he must also be aware that there are other industries in the construction sector that have a different location. I'm concerned that we are going to fight the crime of working life. At the same time, we should be pragmatic in the way we deal with this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e800	I thank you for that answer too. In its first response, the Council of State indicated that the background to the change that has occurred is that unfortunately, the EEA Agreement did not allow the maintenance of legislation to which the Council of State referred was favourable to Norway. This also makes it possible to have a situation in which local companies in Norway adapt to a regulatory framework that is increasingly tightening up in relation to formal skills, while at the same time having very strong competition from foreign competitors, which may be difficult to control, has the right recognition. How does the Council of State feel about following up on this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e807	The representative Gülsvik jumps over the fact that we have had the same code since 1997. The challenge has been that the legislation has been practiced contrary to the legislation. Then I am concerned that we should consider Norwegian enterprises – and non-residents – that have been in good faith. That's why we put in place a transitional arrangement. Therefore, DiBK has been in close dialogue with the industries. That is why we are about to have a new regulatory framework consulted. But we have to have rules that allow us to combat work-life crime. It is in everyone's interest – especially the serious companies, whether they are Norwegian or foreign. This is a voluntary registration scheme, which means that companies cannot be required to be registered in this scheme either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e815	‘The Government of the State budget states that the rights to the Post are sufficient to cover post-transmission five days a week. Postkom meiner Posten is underfunded with approximately NOK 540 million, and that the proceeds are not sufficient. The government also halves the drive to expand broadband. Does the Council of State mean that there is a strong or weak provision of communication for the people of the whole country, or is it such that not everyone should participate in the information society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e822	This government is very concerned that everyone should participate in the information society, and that we should have good infrastructure throughout the country both for fibre, for postal services and for road and rail. That is why we have greatly increased the appropriations to build and maintain more roads, more railways, maintain airports and develop our shipping. We've also said that we're going to have a five-day distribution of mail across the country, and that we're going to have a common postage. All those requirements are set. That we disagree or discuss with the Post about how much they will be paid for the unprofitable services does not mean that we have reduced requirements, that means that we need to discuss more to find that consensus. It is only a small year since one could read in the media that the competitors of the Post on large packages believe that the Post gets too high subsidies to provide those services, while the Post itself thinks they are getting too little. That's why it's important that we do a thorough round of it, and now we also get an external job to find the right price from the state to the Post for the unprofitable services. In the case of digital infrastructure, that's really the main reason why the Post is struggling financially, too much of the amount of mail we sent before, has disappeared, simply because people use e-mails, not alternative providers physically, but e-mails and digital services. In this area it is good to see that today new figures are presented for this market, which shows that now has 80 pst. access to 100 MB or more. It's a strong growth in a few years. We see that the investment level in the industry is record high and has gone from around 7 billion. kr for well over 10 brd. kr if one compares 2013 with 2017. And that's the total investment here that counts, not necessarily how much of this is subsidies over the state budget. If we look at the areas that the Center Party often tends to move forward like those that have the worst coverage on fiber and 4G, it's just to mention, for example, Sogn and Fjordane, Hedmark and Uppland. Upland had 9 pst. 4G coverage when the Senterpartie left the Department of Transportation, but has over 90 pst. coverage today. The appropriations for subsidising the development of fibre have been approximately doubled in both Hedmark and Uppland and has increased by almost 250 pst. In Sogn and Fjordane, because we make sure that the money the state spends, your need is the greatest, instead of evenly distributing it across the country. There's no point in using government money where the market solves the challenges, but it's good to spend government money where the market doesn't solve the challenges, and that's where we've focused it better. This means that even though we are far from in goals, development has been very positive. It is in Hedmark, Oppland and Sogn and Fjordane that one gets the biggest growth in fibre development, which means that one takes back the deficit that was at the government shift in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e833	I myself live in the Uppland County, which now has a broadband coverage of approx. 60 pst. There are more than 1 million inhabitants in Norway who do not have access to acceptable broadband capacity, and then mail, as this question concerned, is the option too many. There are also many broadband coverage, which have not taken advantage of the digital platforms. This is why Stortinget's 2016 order that there will still be post-transmission five days a week throughout the country, important. So my challenge to the state council is still how to secure within these promises now to deliver on what the government has ordered when it comes to five days of post-transmission.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e838	One is expected to have a five-day post-transport service. If a person has to have anything other than that, the Stortinget shall take a new decision – one shall not interfere with it by means of over- or under-financing or co-financing, or anything with respect to the Item. So five days is on the ground. In the case of fibre cover, it's about 60 pst. coverage in Uppland and Hedmark — not at national average level, but strong growth, in fact a doubling compared to 2013, when the Senterpartiet left the Ministry of Transport. So in four years we've doubled the coverage here. For the number of people who have access to 100 MB: there are almost 2.4 million households in Norway. 1.9 million households, a little bit more than that -- 80 pst. - has access. That's 33 pst. who subscribe to it, so there are many who have access to it, but who choose not to use it. However, if you see for example: in the industry, which is generally the most important, fibre coverage went on industry... from 14 pst. [[President clubs]] to 61 pst. in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e847	Eighteen to letter mail, which this is about: it's a little special when the government proposes to use 261 million. kr for services of general interest, of which the company Kvikkas will have nearly 100 billion. kr for the Saturday distribution of newspapers, while the Post Norway will receive 165 million. kr for five days in a week to people and business. It's this particular me and the Center Party are worried about. Can the Minister for Transport ensure that Storting's order for five days of mail travel for the whole country will be valid for 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e852	As I have said in my two previous answers: Until the Storting makes other decisions, it is five days' postal distribution that applies. How it looks in a few years, yes we actually have to have a discussion on the ongoing, because if the decline we've seen over many years, continues, I think the Storting will also take a new discussion on how much money you're going to spend if it's actually not shared mail in many days. There are no indications of this in the allocation that is now in place, but what is possible to bring with it when a person sits and assesses how much money he gets subsidised, is that he also has to look at what obligations the Post has. By now taking one mail stream, instead of having A and B mail, the Post saves a lot of money. When the Post office no longer needs to have a Saturday postage, you also save money. There are cost savings, which you have to look into what they need in subsidies. With regard to the Saturday distribution of newspapers, it is correct that yes, there is Kvikkas doing the job. They now have a delivery quality that is on the level of what the post office had, but they take half the price of what the post office wanted when they submitted a tender for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e862	‘In written questions to the Council of State, I tried to clarify the background assessments, process and possible options for Svalbard airport. The answer was not adequate, so I want to give the Council of State another opportunity to respond to the Stortinget. Why has the status of Svalbard Airport changed, what impact analyses have been carried out, what do these analyses show, and what should be done to maintain the status of international airport of economic and other resources?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e869	As I wrote in the reply to the representative Sivertsen, which I believe was adequate, the definition of Svalbard airport from international to national is about what kind of facilities and what kind of services you have at the airport. A cover did not cover the requirements that one had to cover in order to be known as international airport, and in view of the current traffic and service at the airport, it was natural to consider that the most relevant solution was to redefine it to national airport. There's an opportunity to have international charter aircraft there. It's been before, it's still going to be. However, if you are to have regular international services, you need to make significant upgrades to the aerodrome itself to deal with it, you need to make significant investments in, for example: border control, etc. Given the traffic that has been and that is, we thought that it would be better to classify it in line with the needs that are and in line with the facilities that are. We're going to follow closely the developments at the airport. It is important to try to be part of and further develop the travel opportunities that are there – it is important to secure jobs, it is important to give people an experience of the unique nature that is there. At the same time, there is no point in overinvesting if we see that the offer is more than well covered by the opportunities for international charter traffic and the national scheduled air services currently available.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e878	Central to the development of Svalbard is a travel life effort contained in the Svalbard Communication, which Stortinget had to deal with in the previous period. The travel industry at Svalbard has also stated that the aerodrome is an important piece for it, and with the decision now taken to downgrade Svalbard airport, there is a little wonder at Svalbard. I also do not feel that you have been involved in that process. My questions to the Council of State in this regard are then: What analyses have been made of the impact on the tourism industry? How was the travel industry involved in Svalbard? And what is the assessment of these consequences in relation to the expressed objectives of the Svalbard Communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e883	As I mentioned, we have made an assessment of what kind of air traffic is today, and what we see will be ahead, and what kind of needs are then. Then we see that with today's charter traffic, and with the national scheduled flight that is, a national aerodrome status is more than good enough to meet the needs. So one doesn't change any of what's been practice, a real practice, but the airport has had in its name a status that the aerodrome hasn't lived up to in terms of content. Then we thought it was more tidy and easier to adjust this to be a national airport. This means that you will still be able to fly in very many tourists, both through charter flights and through the national routes that exist. If that's how you see that this can grow significantly more than you've seen before, we'll, as I've said, follow the situation carefully to work with airlines that want to establish a new national connection to Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e888	I notice that the Council of State does not respond to how the tourism industry is involved, or how it has been discussed, nor does it answer the question of what consequences this will have for the tourism industry. I cannot understand it in any other way than that one has not had conversations or has not involved the travel industry at Svalbard in connection with the decision that is now taken. But let me ask the Council of State when it comes to upgrading Svalbard airport in order to meet the requirements that exist to be an international airport: what kind of upgrades and investments are necessary, and what will the cost of making the necessary upgrades and investments be?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e895	These include: on the terminal structure and to ensure that there is better immigration control and facilities, both in a purely physical state and in relation to the people present. We have strengthened the employee at Svalbard with several positions to be able to handle the traffic that is today. But if you want to have regular services, it will mean a significantly larger investment – I don't have the amount of money right here and now. But we've looked at what's been necessary. If the Workers' Party has a completely different idea of what they want with the Svalbard policy, and what they want with the airport, it's fair enough, it may well be a discussion that Stortinget takes. With regard to the needs we see and anticipate in the light of the Svalbard message, we have had a lot of discussion, but it is naturally the Minister of Industry, who is also responsible for tourism, who has had that dialogue, and not the Minister of Transport. Then we've delivered on what's potential, and we're going to follow this closely. It is good and important to be able to develop profitable jobs at Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e903	‘The submarine wreck U-864 outside of Fedje was provided with a flooding aid which had been completed in July 2016. The flooding and the bottom of the sea must take place for 18 months before further measures can be implemented. In January 2018, a significant number of measures are ready for further action. The government is required to assess two alternative environmental measures: lifting of cargo and covering of wreckage, or covering of wreckage. What is the reason why the government has trained this important matter, and what environmental measures will be implemented in January?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e910	I notice that the question here is: Why has the government trained this important matter? I can just cancel it, the government hasn't. We have been relatively quick after we got into government in 2013, going into this case, looking at what the needs are, looking at the eight years of investigations that were before us, and seeing that here one could not just investigate things again, as one did when the Senterpartiet ran in the Ministry of Transport. Here we actually had to take action. The question raised by the representative is precisely based on the fact that we have taken action. After just one year in government, we decided that we would allocate 150 million. kr for a back-up. That support stuff has been built, so we've done concrete things. Now the few have to sit down, as it says here – it has to sit down for 18 months. En-route, many advanced measuring instruments are included. The coastal works monitor it to see whether the flooding provides the stability that we expect or whether further measures need to be taken in place. When we're told it's safe to go on, we'll do it. So in four years we've done more physical action than we saw from the investigations eight years before. Therefore, I believe it is completely wrong to say that you have trained this important matter. With regard to the environmental measures being implemented in January: Once we have been determined that the funding has had its function, we will discuss it and come back to the Stortinge to make decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e921	I have to say that there is a strange answer, as it was the Stortinget who decided on that support before we got a new government. It's an old decision, and of course this government should follow up on what the red-green government and the Storting decided that time. So it's been a training session. For the Coastal Works, which I assume do not lie on their websites, and which have its own progress site for this particular submarine wreck, write that they expect ‘that the seabed will be sufficiently stable for further action at the end of 2017’. Therefore, I ask why the government has not concluded on the two options, which are the options that Stortinget has gone on with in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e928	I think this is going to be a bit of a strange debate, especially given that the representative Toppe got an answer to this also on 1 September 2017. Even one did not deliver anything in eight years other than investigations – and I have five pages of timeline here that are out to public scrutiny – where the representative Toppe's government first decided to lift the wreck, then cover, and so that one would investigate the alternatives. One may well shake his head, but in February 2007 the Minister for Fisheries and Coast decides that the wreck should be covered, on 29 January 2009 one goes in to lift the wreck, and then there are further investigations. And that's training -- when you actually can't decide for anything. We've started the physical work to get something done about this, to do nothing, to just figure out once again because you can't make a decision, that's not good enough. But that's absolutely right: we haven't yet decided exactly what will happen when we have got our Coastal Works 'go' on, that now this is stable, but we're going to make sure that something happens here over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e937	I'm a little surprised at the answer, because one of you has to stop arguing four years and eight years back in time, considering what the Council of State is responsible for here and now. When I read on the Coastal Works' pages, the following says about the progress plan now: «The Coastal Works are awaiting a decision on the main measures and further work». So all work is now under way because the government has not yet, after four years, concluded which of the two options one will go on with – either that one must cover the wreck, or that one can try to lift the load and then the deck to the wreck. That's what I'm asking for, and I actually thought that a responsible state council could give me a proper answer, instead of pointing out what happened in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e944	What is being asked is, what is the reason why the government has trained this important matter? That's what the representative asks. Now, all of a sudden, the question is a completely different one. I pointed out in my first answer that we are working on this. Now the Coastal Plant will monitor the measures we have taken – so we have done physical things – and then we will make a final decision when we see that this is stable. But what would have been interesting is whether the Center Party itself had a position in some of the issues that they challenge the government. So after sitting in government for eight years, you haven't heard the Central Party think anything concrete about what they think we should have done. It's just asking what others think you should do. And even though we've done more in four years than we saw the last government did in eight years, one believes that things are trained, that nothing happens. I believe that this is a wrong description of the reality, and I have mentioned here that we have granted money, the Coast Guard is doing a job, we are waiting for feedback that everything is okay, and then we will proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e956	First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on his appointment – not just because she is the first female foreign minister in Norway, but primarily because she is a capable politician. Similarly, it is a very good signal from Norway, which shows the relationship between life and learning for the world in terms of equality, that both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance are female politicians. This is a good and modern signal, under which the Left is very supportive. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: ‘The Minister of Foreign Affairs considers that the Government’s decision not to accede to the UN’s ban on nuclear weapons is consistent with the request decision No. 623 where ‘Is the government actively asking the government to work for a world free of nuclear weapons [...]’?’ [[26 April 2016]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e965	First, I have to say a thousand thanks for the congratulations. I am very pleased to cooperate with the representative Raja and the rest of the Stortinget. To the question: The government has an active role to play in this work. I think it might be important for the context that we quote the whole decision. It says we should work for ‘a world free of nuclear weapons and contributing to the implementation of the Non-Proliferation Agreement’s obligations, to play an active role in promoting non-proliferation and disarmament with a view to the balanced, reciprocal, irreversible and verifiable abolition of nuclear weapons’. [[NTP]] It is therefore on this basis that the government must work for a long-term and legally binding framework. This goal of a nuclear-free world, I think, all share. Of course, the government does. But unfortunately there are no shortcuts to achieve that goal. It is a time-consuming work, it is a great complexity of work, and a legally binding framework must come as a result. The government has been very clear that further disarmament must take place within the framework of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, which is also the basis of the Storting Decision. There are 191 states with it, including the nuclear weapons states. They have undertaken to contribute to nuclear disarmament. It's a core point, in order to use such a concept, that the nuclear weapons states are involved. The aim is to have a treaty for general and full disarmament under strict and effective control. The non-proliferation agreement is the support beam itself. We also work actively in particular when it comes to verification. It is now the absolutely most concrete disarmament issue that is being discussed globally. Norway has a driving role there. What we have just done these days is to complete a major verification exercise, which is completely unique, together with the United States, the United Kingdom and Sweden. We have very good results from the exercise. Not least, this is a very concrete disarmament work, in line with the obligations of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. This quadruple cooperation we want to develop further. One of the most interesting is that Norwegian researchers, together with their colleagues from the other three countries, have contributed to the development of technology and methodology that will be essential for monitoring future disarmament agreements and their compliance and verification. It is important to stress that we also take other initiatives. One of the clear Norwegian initiatives we have now taken is to get the United Nations to set up its own expert group on the theme of verification. We work closely with the UN and the countries I mentioned about this. We are a driver for the entry into force of the probation agreement. We are a driver to stop the manufacture of fissile materials for weapons purposes and to build up existing stocks. We have also actively contributed to the implementation of the nuclear agreement with Iran, and in particular it was important that we contribute to the transport of uranium.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e983	It's very good to hear that the government initially shares the goal of a nuclear-free world. It's an important signal and a good clarification. If I go back to the position I referred to, the Committee also writes that ‘the government has informed Stortinget that it is working systematically to achieve the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons, and that in time to come it will focus on practical and effective measures’ – precisely for this active work in formal multilateral disarmament forums within the UN. And then we have this long quotation, where the committee has unanimously said that we should work for a world free of nuclear weapons. Me and the Left would prefer the government to be with these UN countries – 122 – who have signed this UN Treaty. When that has not happened, my specific question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: How does she plan to achieve these goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e992	In particular, there are two things that are important for Norway in the work we are doing now. One is systematic and long-term. We're totally dependent on that to achieve results, and we're dependent on having the nuclear weapons states with us. This is what has characterized both landmines and class weapons in particular, that the countries with these weapons have been involved in the work. Results have also been achieved over time. The second is that we need to protect those institutions and mechanisms that actually contribute to real disarmament. The non-proliferation agreement is a support bar in that work. It has been important for us not to do anything that undermines the Non-Proliferation Agreement, and also to help avoid unnecessary polarisation. Unfortunately, some of what is seen in the global debate now, is that there is some polarization, and that there is some disagreement between countries about which instruments are the most effective. For the time being, only 50 States have signed this Treaty. There are only three that have ratified. There are now several countries that have taken some time to consider, because they see that the Treaty can help undermine the work of the Non-Proliferation Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1003	I hope that more than 50 countries will ratify this. To another theme, which borders on this subject: The Norwegian Nobel Committee has decided that the Nobel Peace Prize for 2017 will be awarded to International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, ICAN. The Nobel Committee believes that through its work ICAN has contributed to filling a legal vacuum and has also been the leading civil society actor in the work to obtain a ban on nuclear weapons under international law. The Norwegian State is also a leading country in supporting civil society work in many different fields. We have quite long traditions for that. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: what does she think about supporting civil society actors, just like ICAN, Norwegian doctors against nuclear weapons, No to Atomic weapons, etc.? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that it is important that Norway support such civil society actors working for a world without nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1012	As the representative Raja is familiar with, over many years, the UD has provided financial support to ICAN. It was no longer found to be in line with the eligibility criteria, in particular through ODA funds. Therefore, they are not supported in the future. Nevertheless, there are applications on the table, which we of course deal with in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have always been committed to providing good support to civil society organisations. They are important not only in the work related to disarmament but in general as well. They're important drivers. They are key initiators. We work very closely with very many organisations, whether civil society organisations or others who contribute in areas that are also important to Norway, or in human rights work, disarmament, doctors Without boundaries or other organisations. That's going to keep the government going.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1028	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1036	This question, from Nicholas Wilkinson to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1041	Violence and child abuse are a serious social problem. ‘Sta Analyse, on behalf of the Government, has produced a report on the social costs of violence and child abuse. Based on its calculations, Vista Analysis does not exclude that violence and abuse against children cost society nearly 75 billion. kr. Preventing violence and assault, as well as working to discover this early to help the children who are exposed, will save a lot of suffering, but also money. Does the Ministry of Health and Welfare dispute the content of the report, or does the Council agree with the conclusions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1050	As the representative had in mind, it is the undersigned who coordinates the government's work related to violence and child abuse. That's why it's also the answer to the question. It could have been easy to say that I do not dispute this, but I want to elaborate it a little more, for every day in Norway, children and young people are exposed to care failure, abuse, violence or abuse. I'm glad that the Children's Violence Committee asked Vista Analysis to calculate the socio-economic costs of child and youth being subjected to violence. There is no reason to doubt Vista's conclusions, and the findings that emerged there are in line with other knowledge that we have from the past, both nationally and internationally. We know a good deal about the damage that violent children are doing, but too little about the extent of children who are subjected to serious care failure and abuse. That is why we have commissioned the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress to carry out an extensive study on violence and abuse against children, where children are themselves asked. Violence and assault are causing enormous suffering to children, and in the worst cases the child loses his or her life. The Vista report underlines how extremely expensive it is to repair the damage after violence and assault. So the most important thing we can do is prevent this from happening. Unfortunately, the Children's Violence Committee's investigation shows that many cases could have been caught or averted much earlier. For this reason, the government prioritises the prevention of violence and abuse, and during this government period there has been a significant investment, of over 1 billion. kr, for health centre and school health services. These are services that are in a unique position to prevent and detect violence and abuse early. Family protection services are strengthened by over 128 million. kr, and the family protection office of Enerhaugen has established an acute environment of competence in the field of family violence. In addition, we have tripled the funds for children’s homes, and during the period, victims’ care offices are to be set up in all 12 police districts of the country. I also want to highlight the support that the government has given to the Stine Sofie Centre, a national centre for mastering and life-stricken children. One of the biggest failures in the service that the selection of child violence revealed was that conversations with children are often lacking. We are now developing a national training programme for different disciplines in municipalities in conversations with children about violence and abuse. Knowledge and skills in dealing with violence and sexual abuse have become part of the framework plan for the various teacher training courses and are now also to be incorporated into a common framework for health and social education. The follow-up to the action plan against violence and abuse is a high priority for this government, and I am pleased that we are strengthening the work done in the field of justice, health and knowledge and in my department, to ensure that children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1069	I must admit that I am now a little surprised, but positively surprised, that the Council of State sees no reason to doubt the report. In the government budget, it is clear that this is not being followed up, because in the report they are clear that we need a stepping-up plan for work against violence and abuse. What the Children’s Ombudsman has said about this initiative – as the Council of State calls it – is that the government’s proposal for a State budget is far too poor in terms of funds to protect children from violence and abuse. It's a mockery of the very most vulnerable among us. So the government has figured out that they're going to make $54 million. kr more. To compare here: only on the stock discount, the government puts in at 700 million. kr. In other words, the government is paying just 13 times more on a share tax than they are paying on measures to help children who are subjected to violence and abuse. I want to ask the council if she believes that the stock discount is 13 times more important than protecting children from violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1080	I thank you for the question. I am a little surprised that the representative is surprised that I do not doubt the Vista report. What it shows is that violence in close relationships costs society 4-6 billion. kr. This is why prevention in this area is so important. This government has only spent half a billion dollars this year on the escalation plan. It's the first step-up plan with such a huge commitment for a government that some government has put forward for a big deal, and this is an important work that we're going to follow up. That's why I'm glad we're strengthening it for the next year, so next year it's going to be 584 million. kr on this escalating plan. However, this is in addition to the important work done at health and family protection stations — and not least the 200 million. kr used in early intervention and prevention activities in municipalities. So this is a priority area, and I think it's going to be wrong to start asking questions and putting stock savings up against the prevention work done by the government to combat violence and abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1089	I record that the Council of State's answer to my question is that it is wrong to ask that question. I think it is not wrong to ask questions about how we prioritise violence and abuse against children. It turns out that we have all the limited resources to what we can prioritize spending money on. The State budget is revenue and expenditure. Then you have to ask yourself, what do you think is the most important thing to do? So I really have to repeat my question, because I didn't get an answer. So in its changes, from the previous state budget to the present, the government has introduced new initiatives. They've added a little little pot of 54 million. kr, which the Children's Ombudsman considers to be far too small, for action against violence and abuse against children. By comparison, they've put in $700 million. kr to share tax. So the government is giving 13 times more priority to a share discount than to measures to help children who are subjected to violence and abuse. Then again, I ask the Council of State: does the Council of State really think this is a good priority, or will the Council of State support SV in reducing the stock abate and rather spend more of the money on children who are subjected to violence and abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1096	This is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. But this is a good budget, a budget for growth, so Norway gets a sustainable welfare society. Even if we spend 700 million. kr to stock tax, I have just been involved in all the work the government has done over this four-year period – and what will be used to combat violence and assault next year. One of the most important things we can do to combat violence and abuse against children is to prevent. That's why it's important that we now spend over 1 billion. kr in health stations, over 130 mill. NOK 200 million for the family protection service. for early intervention and prevention in municipalities. This is in addition to the 584 million. kr, which we will use next year to combat violence and abuse against children, for action in the escalation plan. This is a budget in which we show our priorities, on which the representative was involved, but it also shows that, unlike other governments, this government really prioritises the fight against violence and child abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1112	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1120	‘In the state budget for 2018, appropriations for actions to improve the mental health of students seem to have moved to drug prevention. Does the Council of State mean that work on the mental health of students is mainly about drug prevention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1127	No, the work on students’ mental health is of course about much more than drug prevention. The State budget for 2018 proposes to establish a separate grant scheme for drug prevention efforts aimed at students and study places under the auspices of, among others. Student relations and student organisations. By announcing the arrangements for a common regulatory framework, the application process will become easier for student partnerships, learning institutions and student organisations, while improving the efficiency of grant management. It is important to stress that this is a coordination of two grant schemes which will continue to have two objectives: one is to strengthen the mental health of students, and the other is to prevent problems related to drug use. Therefore, actions dealing with the mental health of students will still be able to seek support from the scheme, even without the action addressing drug prevention. And, on the other hand, drug prevention measures could be supported without addressing the mental health of students. For actions that take both objectives, it may be appropriate to provide support from both grant items at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1136	I thank you for the answer, and it is at least a little reassuring to hear that there is still a focus on other measures. For, in the previous student health and well-being study, from 2014, it is revealed that one in five is struggling with severe symptoms. This is twice as high as in the general population in the same age group. Of these, only one in three have sought help, and lowthreshold services are needed. A good initiative that can be mentioned is the student organisation at the UiS, which is now launching the Student Phone, where you can call and get help on the questions you need help with. And in this year's state budget, the Workers' Party added three times more than the government to work for students' mental health, and it was without drug prevention. Does the Council of State believe that next year's budget appropriations are sufficient for the action, when we know the scope?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1141	It's like you always want to find room for more when you're working with health. It'll be an infinite wish. But I believe that the government has just managed to prioritise and strengthen the work in mental health, both against students and in the general population. We have seen a sharp increase in the number of psychologists in municipalities; we have seen a sharp increase in the development of health care services for primary and secondary school students, while at the same time strengthening mental health services in hospitals. It's important. It is also important that we improve on preventing — or creating good mental health — through public health work, and that is one of the reasons why we now have a total budget of 70 million. to a public health programme directed by the municipalities just targeting children and young people’s mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1146	I thank you again for the answer. In the pot that's for next year, 2018, it's set at 10 million. kr that can be applied for, among others. The student orders. Very familiar are the five million. kr from the year's budget not yet published. This is something, among other things: The Norwegian student organisation has wondered. So my follow-up question is going to be about the 5 million. kr entered are new funds, or there are funds transferred from the budget for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1151	I am not aware of the fact that the funds in this year's budget are not spent, and that is because a person grants new money for each year. The money contained in next year's budget is not an increase in relation to the year's budget. It's probably at the same level as the year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1160	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Immigration and Integration the following questions: ‘In the film What will people say and NRK’s reports on children from Norway at Koran Schools in Somalia, it has been shown that sending children to the country of origin of the family is a tool for strong social control that prevents good integration. The Transnational Growth Report of the Institute for Social Research shows that a large number of children are sent abroad for longer stays, especially in Somalia, Iraq and Pakistan. What measures will the Council of State take to safeguard the right of these children to a safe growth in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1169	I would like to start by thanking the representative of Bohemia for the question. This is a very important issue. This is, in fact, an expression of the failure of integration in Norway. It is important that those who come to Norway and are allowed to stay comply with the values, laws and rules that apply here. It is essential that all children and young people in Norway live in freedom to make their own choices. We are familiar with the problem of children being sent on a mission to their parents’ country of origin when their parents seem to have become Norwegians, or when their children have entered a drug or crime environment. The government is very concerned that these children, like all other children in Norway, should have a safe growth. The new Action Plan on Negative Social Control, Forced Marriage and Gender Harm, ‘The Right to Control Your Own Life’, launched in March of this year, provides 28 actions to be followed, including more to improve the first-line knowledge of how to help children and young people in such situations. Teachers meet very much with young people and have a unique opportunity to discover that something is not as it should be. There are also teachers who can discover that the student is missing from school. I believe it is important to strengthen the knowledge of teachers on these issues, and it is also important that teachers dare to tell the right authorities if they suspect that the student is not well at home, or at risk of being sent to their home country. The action plan also provides for the school to hold follow-up calls for students to move abroad without their parents. I think it is important to combat the fear of touch that many professionals who meet these young people feel in meeting these issues. We will work closely with the Ministry of Knowledge and several other departments on this in the future. I would also like to mention that we have minority counsellors in the most vulnerable schools, with which children and young people can contact. We finance the Red Cross telephone for forced marriage and sexual mutilation, to which children and young people can call and get advice and guidance on what they should do. The most important thing is to prevent children and young people from being sent out of Norway. Once they're out of the country, we've got far fewer tools we can use. However, we have four integration advisers at the foreign stations where these problems are greatest. The EEAS assists 10-15 Norwegian young people home to Norway each year. Other important measures in the action plan include: to improve the guidelines on survivors abroad. These guidelines need to be revised in line with current legislation and procedures. The revised guidelines shall also mention how Norwegian authorities can prevent children from being left abroad. There is also a separate provision of housing and support for young people who have to flee from the family because they are under strong pressure for example. coercion. This housing and support offer can also be used by young people who have to flee the family due to threats of being sent out of the country on mission. I believe we need to continue working to see what more can be done to prevent children from being sent out of Norway to stay that is directly harmful to integration, and will invite them to cooperate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1188	Thank you very much for your answer. It was a full answer, which had important points. I would like to follow up by saying that it is often said that we do not have any tools once they have been sent abroad, etc. But we need to be aware that when these children come back to Norway – I get that from the neighborhoods, and I know examples myself – they often become Nav clients for the rest of their lives. They've lost friends, they've lost what they were doing in terms of integration, they've probably lost their boyfriends – lost a lot of their lives – and lost their language if they've been gone for years. It's very serious fate these children are exposed to, so we have to go further, I think, in terms of measures. So I want to ask about three new types of measures, which were not mentioned. One is to get a comprehensive overview nationally – from the county municipalities, from Nav or from those who register this – of how many are involved, and get it out to the embassies, so that the embassies can more closely follow up on how these children are doing, what kind of schools they are going on, and how their fate is, because there are enough people they don't know about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1195	I think it's a constructive notion, that we have to try to get such an overview, although, of course, I see that there may be some challenges to it. But knowing the extent is incredibly important, so I'm going to take it with me and investigate what's possible, and how to possibly get it. I fully agree with Mr Bøhler that when you come to Norway after several years in another country, where you may have lost your language, it makes it quite difficult for the rest of your life in Norway. We met with, among others. Oslo's community on the challenges of secondary schools in some parts of the city, and they also pointed out that some of the people who come back are going into an ordinary course of education and have little basis for success. That's why I fully agree that we have to do more. I will therefore now work with several departments to try to find new ways to combat this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1202	When the Minister for Immigration and Integration commented on this in Dagsrevyen in May, he announced strong government action. I wish that meant that more strong measures were put in place, and I mention a few more points. One concerns the investigation of detention. I mean that if you, for example, then the movie "What will people say" and the story that was portrayed there, so you saw that it was a deprivation of liberty, a kidnapping. That is the case many times, I think, that the children have been sent e.g. on a summer holiday without knowing that they will stay in that country, and that it often lies among others. arranged marriages in the back, under strong pressure, or that they have been too integrated here in Norway, and that they should be brought into a different culture. So I think that the investigation of detention should be an important track, and that you can't hide behind the parents' rights, because they also have a training obligation, an obligation to ensure that children are properly trained, which many of these children don't get. The last thing I want to ask is for an emergency passport – if the embassies can issue an emergency passport without the parents' consent to get these children back.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1211	There are young people we bring back to Norway after they have been left out there, so it is handled by the embassies today. As I said, there are 10–15 examples of this, and most of them will probably be in a situation where they have escaped from their parents, i.e. they come to Norway against the will of their parents. I fully agree that the representative mentioned as an example on the investigation page is a lead to pursue. I think we also need to look at part of the agreements that are concluded with parents, that they should not send out the children. We have been given some indications that some of these agreements are not worth the paper they are written on. The question is whether, by using such agreements, we actually give these young people false security. I believe that the Norwegian authorities should not do that. So we're working along several tracks and we're going to prioritize this case in the future. There's a lot of departments involved, but I'm holding the strings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1223	‘In answer to my written question about an 11-year-old from Dokka who has to wait in Kabul while the asylum case is being resolved, the Council of State answers that she does not intervene in individual cases. The question, however, was not about the legal case, but about the care of the child's best interests in matters where the state is the anchor, thus putting the child's life on hold. Why can't a child who is waiting for final clarification continue his education in Norway while, and what does the government do to ensure the child's best in such cases?'
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1230	Let me first point out that under the Foreign Affairs Act, neither I nor the Ministry of Justice and Defence are involved in the determination of individual cases, unless the matter concerns fundamental national interests or foreign policy considerations. Foreigners seeking asylum have, as a clear rule, the right to stay in Norway until the asylum case is finally decided by the Board of Appeal for the Study of Foreign Affairs. If the decision of theee is refused, the foreigner, including families with children, is obliged to leave Norway. I believe it would be unfortunate both for the Norwegian community, but also for the individual asylum seeker, if the stay in Norway can be trained through long-term legal procedures. As a general rule, where two bodies, UDI and UNE, have concluded that the applicant for asylum has no grounds for staying in Norway, it is not appropriate to extend the waiting period further. UNE shall, upon request, consider whether a foreigner may nevertheless remain in Norway until the Court has settled the case by suspending, where appropriate, the application of the refusal decision. Under its own legislation, UNE is also obliged, in some cases, to provide deferred entry into force if new information emerges suggesting that the case should be reconsidered. Foreigners may also apply to the Court for a preliminary ruling and, by way of order, be entitled to stay in the country until the relevant court has decided the case. I believe that the legal certainty of the individual is well respected, including both the assessment of the risk of persecution and the consideration of the best interests of the child, when an asylum application has first been assessed in two instances and both the UN and the Court of Justice consider that there is no basis for the foreigner to remain in Norway pending the trial.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1239	This applies to a well integrated forced child with an unsolved asylum case, because the State at the Department of Foreign Affairs has appealed to clarify an uncertainty, which is certainly political, but which the court has to clarify because we politicians are unable to set the limit between the weighting of the child’s best – such as residence time in the country or other things that may provide the basis for permanent residence – against what one calls immigration-regulating considerations. I remember that this is a matter in which I happen to know that the family has both applied for delayed implementation and for temporary residence so that the child can continue to be educated in Norway while the state decides what we believe to be our law. Does the Council not believe that Norway has a responsibility for how a child, who may end up in Norway, is protected by his human rights in general and by children's rights in particular, while the family is waiting for a final decision in the Norwegian judiciary?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1246	I am confident that UDI and UNE will make the assessments that are correct in individual cases. We have a code that I think is good and that there is reason to follow. The fact that one is well integrated is not a starting point for staying in Norway. It is about whether you have a right to protection, and that is the basis for dealing with these matters. I believe that we have a good procedure in Norway. We are well among the countries in the world that have the best systems, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1253	I remind you that in this case, the issue is not my own legal case and the basis of the child's residence, but how we, as a society, are to care for the best interests of children in a situation where our judiciary needs to know how to weigh different concerns. The foreign student is very clear in this case because the reason they want to appeal to the Supreme Court is that two fairly similar cases have been assessed differently. Fair enough. But I remind you that in this case, the child's family has won the cases both in the District Court and in the Law of Lawyers, while the state continues to appeal. That means that the 11-year-old from Dokka can stay three years in Kabul together and eventually end up having a residence permit in Norway, because that is what we decide to believe in principle in this kind of case in Norway. At the end of the day, my question will be whether the Minister for Immigration and Integration does not believe that we can decide in principle, in these kinds of cases, whether the best interests of the child can also be cared for so strongly that it can be in Norway while the case is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1262	I believe we have a good code in Norway, and that the foreign agencies are entitled to assess the individual cases. I am very concerned that when you receive a refusal and that is the basis for sending people out, yes, they will be sent out, no matter who it may be. It's about justice in the system. The fact that those who are refused are returned is part of having a strict and fair system. That's why I think this is something we have to keep going, and then we're going to take good care of those who get to stay and stay, and integrate them in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1267	For the next question, we're going to have to re-order because we're missing the Council of State Søviks. So we move on to question 14 from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to Minister of Justice and Defence Per-Willy Amundsen. We'll wait for Søviknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1275	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Justice and Security: ‘Detentional prisons have been ordered by the Labour Inspectorate to demolish an old set-aside that is used by offices and shops in prison before 31 December 2017, as it does not comply with the HMS requirements and fire regulations. Vik Municipality has set aside new areas for consultation, but the Directorate of Criminal Affairs will have temporary solutions. Will the Council of State make sure that boards are replaced by new locals rather than using millions for temporary measures, and that this happens without already reducing the area of airing and activities of the inserts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1284	Crime prevention has a major maintenance role and therefore has challenges both in terms of maintenance and investment needs. It requires strict priority both for the Directorate of Criminal Welfare and for the Ministry of Justice and Defence in the context of the financial framework. The Ministry of Justice and Security has entrusted the Directorate of Criminal Welfare with the task of developing a concept selection inquiry for criminal enforcement capacity in the West. The work on this is expected to start in the current year, covering the counties of Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane as well as More and Romsdal. The Labour Inspectorate, as the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete points out, has given Vik prison time to 31 December of this year to end the use of existing premises that do not comply with public requirements. State-building works actively with replacement rooms in the form of new wrecks in a suitable place within the existing property of Vik prison. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare expects this to be done during 2017, to replace the current premises, which are not satisfactory. The establishment of new permanent premises will require a new land area. A decision on the purchase of new land to Vik prison must be seen in the context of the work of the concept selection inquiry on criminal enforcement capacity in the West. Once the draft selection examination has been carried out, the quality assurance shall be provided within the regulatory framework applicable to large-scale State investments. The government will return to the priority of actions in the West, allocation needs and progress. This is done naturally in the context of the annual budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1291	I thank you for your answer. It is four years since the Labour Inspectorate first imposed it, it came in 2013, and one has said that fines will be imposed that will amount to NOK 720 000 per year if one does not now make repairs. So far, the lease has tried to stop these with the reason that one is working on finding solutions. The management has also repeatedly pointed out that there is no room for replacement buildings that build up too little open space. It will affect their deployment possibilities for activation and aeration. And Vik Municipality has set aside the finished regulated area east of prison. If these challenges had been in other, central parts of the country, they would have been solved in the best way in 2013, but with the policy of this government there is reason to fear that in the future criminal services will only be run in key directions. One has for a long time trained these plans to expand prison with 30 new closed places. I ask again, how will we achieve concrete progress that will solve this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1300	I am not at all familiar with the representative’s description of the government’s policy – rather on the contrary. Now that we're clear that we're going to set up a concept selection investigation for the Western criminal services, it's just to take care of those parts of the country and make sure that we have good restitution capacity and good restitution conditions there as well. Similarly, there is a similar investigation of the concept of selection for the East. From the government side, this is something that we're most serious about, but we need to see these relationships in context. Much of the capacity that exists today is old and should be seen in that context. It is important to put in place good facilities for the future. Then we have to see it in context, and we do it through our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1305	I thank you again for your answer, which did not provide much more information. Today there are 431 vacancies in Norwegian prisons. Norway purchases 242 places in the Netherlands. Price per day in the Netherlands is NOK 3 300, while he is approx. NOK 2000 in Norway. This is a policy that one must also see in the context of the development of settlements – not least in prisons in district areas, such as Vik Municipality – and a policy that leads to more and more prisons being neglected in Norway. It's not adjusted, it's not allowed to expand in any of the places you want. Instead, an unnecessary amount of money is spent on buying prison places abroad. Will the government now change this policy and ensure that we have good settlements in Norway for our deployments, which also leads to local jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1314	At best, the description given by the representative of the government's policy in this area cannot be described as anything but a little special in the sense that it is the true opposite we have done. With this government we have managed to wind up the reconciliation queue. When this government joined, it was approx. 1 200 in pay queue in Norway. The current number per second is approx. 157. Thus, the reconciliation queue has been terminated. It is not least because we created the capacity we got in the Netherlands, which has also given us a room for refurbishment and upgrading of existing capacity, which would otherwise have been impossible without further increase in the prison queue. If there is an area where there is very little reason for the opposition to criticise the government, it must be this area in particular. It's about the fact that we've delivered the most. We have closed the settlement queue, and it is precisely because we have used temporary places in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1321	We then go back to question 12, from the representative Arne Nävra to the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1329	«At present, there are no ports providing shore-side electricity for large cruise ships. Norway should take a leading role in this work, with high cruise traffic and ambitions for green shipping and reduced greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. Will the government ensure sufficient support from Enova for the deployment of shore-side electricity to all ships in all major tourist ports?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1336	The government is committed to facilitating the flow of land in several Norwegian ports. It can both reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve air quality locally. Enova, like the questioner, is our central tool in the effort to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions and develop the energy system of the future. This is why Enova has been strengthened over the last few years, and in 2018 a total of 2.7 billion has been proposed. kr. In recent years, there has been a great deal of effort on the part of Enova. A few years ago, only some ports had shore-side electricity available, but since 2016 Enova has completed four rounds and allocated more than 340 million. SEK in aid for a total of 50 shore-side electricity projects. Enova’s support has been designed as competitions – for projects with the highest potential for greenhouse gas emissions cuts and with a device to maximise greenhouse gas emissions reductions per support crown. I think it's an important approach. When we spend taxpayers' money on these kinds of measures, it is important that we have the greatest possible impact, and this is in this case the greatest possible cut in greenhouse gas emissions. First, shore-side electricity is built with the largest use time and the greatest effect compared to the amount of aid. When it comes to cruise traffic, it is peculiar to require particularly high power in order to connect cruise ships to the mains power source, so in addition to the connection itself, it is important to have sufficient power. This means that high infrastructure costs are often incurred. The costs are increasing at the shore power plant itself. In addition, it is of course necessary for shipping companies to make their conversions in order to be able to link ships to shore-side electricity. Animal farms combined with low service life for some cruise ports — especially during the summer season and not the rest of the year — have so far not reached the competition for Enova aid. However, much is happening in the maritime sector. We have a long tradition in Norway to be at the forefront of advanced technology. And as pointed out here from the questioner, green shipping will also eventually have to include the cruise industry. Enova's going to continue his bet. The government is facilitating greater activity through Enova once again with the appropriations now available, and I hope that there will also be good projects coming forward that will benefit the cruise industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1351	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess that's about what I was expecting. Just to illustrate the extent: there are now almost 700,000 cruise tourists in Norwegian fjords annually, over 300,000 only in Geiranger. A cruise tourist is the most polluting of all tourists – only with regard to CO 2 it is more than three times as much emissions per passenger kilometre as with the use of a private car. In order to really capture this release into the air and remove the colossal pollution caused by these ships in Norwegian fjords, the only solution – as we see it – is in the long term to get shore-side electricity during the stay, which SV has taken up several times. Applications for shore-side support for cruise ships have been made to Enova, among others. from Bergen, but Enova himself says that they don't have the means to support such large projects, just a number of smaller ones, just like the Council of State so far. Will the Council of State increase this pot at Enova to ensure that ports can actually make the necessary infrastructure changes to facilitate shore-side electricity also for larger ships such as cruise ships?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1363	Now, on the government side, we control Enova through a working agreement between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Enova. It is important to make maximum use of the funds made available, both in terms of emissions reduction and the development of new technologies, that Enova has great freedom to develop and prioritise between the programmes to be presented to the industry, between the technologies to be developed. We're not inside the government, on the part of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and specifically determine different parts of the budget for Enova. We give a framework, based on what the Stortinge grants in the state budgets. That being said, this is a theme that I know there's close contact between a number of cruise ports and Enova about, and that dialogue will probably continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1370	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Just to say a little bit about the prospects here: it pays to be in advance of evolution. The number of cruise tourists is also expected to double within 20 years, according to TØI estimates. The greenhouse gas emissions from ships are significant. The EU Infrastructure Directive requires all major European ports to have shore-side electricity by 2025. If the Minister believes this is not possible for Enova to support, who does he think will facilitate these necessary investments? Are there any other departments that this belongs to? Will he encourage the Ministry of Transport to take responsibility for organising major land-flow projects if these are too large projects for Enova?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1379	Enova is also our main tool in terms of land flow to the cruise ports. There is a work that needs to be carried out continuously here, and I would encourage those ports that have cruise calls to coordinate and cooperate in order to develop a strategy for developing this in Norway. We may also have to look beyond the borders of the country, because if we want to get the economy and get the adequate emission cuts we want, we also depend on the fact that there are similar facilities in other European ports that the same cruise ships call at. In the first phase, I think it would be most topical to install shore-side power where you have inverters, and where there are shipping companies that have fixed routes between European ports, so that we can have the greatest possible effect. There is also an opportunity for local authorities, municipalities, the port community to go in with financial support also from their side to reduce the amount of aid needed by the State, because local authorities also have a responsibility for local pollution, which is part of this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1389	‘Good rehabilitation and the content of housing prevent crime. An important part of rehabilitation is contact with family and children. For this reason, we have long had the principle of subsidiarity as a driving rule for how, as a society, we organise the settlements and allow the rehabilitation of prisoners in our prisons. The compensation shall be as close as possible to the community and family of the prisoner. This has been a good and important principle, which, among other things, makes repatriation to society and rehabilitation easier. Which, once again, reduces the risk of recurring crime. Does the Council of State consider that the principle of subsidiarity is respected in Dutch prison settlement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1396	The principle of subsidiarity is an important principle in the work of criminal services and an important guide to the placement of prisoners. It is far from Norway to Norwayrhaven prison in the Netherlands, but also in Norway it is long distances. And regardless of whether the punishment is imposed in a prison in Norway or in the Netherlands, different considerations may conflict with the principle of subsidiarity and, in some cases, have to take precedence. In a situation where there is a lack of criminal enforcement capacity, the principle of subsidiarity will have to give rise to the need to start criminal proceedings as soon as possible after a judgment has been given. I remind you that prison in the Netherlands was established as a temporary measure to address a major need for high-security prisons. Long payback queues and a breach of the deadline for transfer from police detention to custody have long been a challenge. Since the establishment of prison, the settlement queues have been closed, and we no longer have excesses in custody due to lack of detention. I also want to make the representative aware that almost 80 pst. Of the prisoners in Norway, prisons are foreign nationals. For this group, the implementation of the prison sentence is of minor importance. Most of these should not be returned to Norwegian society. Many of them do not have their family in Norway, but perhaps in a country that is, in fact, geographically close to the Netherlands. Prisoners to return to Norwegian society are transferred to Norway as soon as they are granted leave or leave from prison. In other words, they carry out only part of the punishment in the Netherlands. I also remind you that no sentence received by children under 18 years of age is transferred to Norwayrhaven prison, unless they so wish. It's also important to say that 64 pst. by the prisoners have been transferred on a voluntary basis. Compared to prisoners in other Norwegian prisons, prisoners have increased opportunities for telephone contact with friends and family, and there are also opportunities for using Skype. It is well organised for visits to prison. Finally, I would like to stress that in Norway, prisons are actively working with measures to provide the prisoners with good opportunities for repatriation to society. Good return to society and rehabilitation require more than just proximity to community and family.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1407	A number of criteria have been laid down for housing in the Netherlands. These are also referred to in the government's proposals for a government budget. Among other things, the proposal, on which the Council of State was concerned, mentions that housing in the Netherlands should not include prisoners who are entitled to education or prisoners who have regular visits to children under 18 years of age. Experience from prisons and the work of criminal services has just shown that prison inmates can experience better family contact or a desire for education and training over time at the time of acquittal and through rehabilitation. Does the Council of State consider that such a development is not possible, or is it not, for prisoners as zones in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1412	I see that the compensation we have made available in the Netherlands has solved many of the challenges that the previous government left behind for this government. We took over at a time when approx. 1 200 stood in the queue. So people had to wait to get their sentence. This is an unsustainable situation, and at least it is not in favour of rehabilitation. We've managed to liquidate these restitution queues. We have also been able to clean up and renovate the capacity we have in Norway through our use of Norgesrhaven prison, and we have avoided any breach of people’s longevity in custody. Overall, this has been an important step for Norwegian criminal justice. It's put us in a much better situation. And I would like to stress once again that most of the sons of the Netherlands are non-nationals. Many of them are not going back to Norway at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1419	I record that the Council of State does not answer the question. I hope he will answer this: The proposal for a State budget mentions that the lease with the Netherlands should expire at the same time as the new prison in Agder is clear. Will the Council of State guarantee that the foreign zoning system will end when the new Agder prison is ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1426	We have consistently argued that Norway has been temporary in nature and the settlement challenges it solves for Norway. So far, no continuation is planned after the prison in Agder is clear. This will mean a fragile increase in housing capacity in Norway — new, modern, effective prison, which will be very well organised for housing. I believe that at that time we need to assess the situation, whether there is a need for further extension of Norway's territory. As of today, this is not the basis. It's not the government's policy. It has to be assessed continuously according to the capacity needs we needed in the Kingdom, but as of today it is not a topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1431	Question 14 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1439	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘The figures of the Central Bureau of Statistics say that the proportion of private schools has increased by 51.6 p.m.. in the last 10 years. Several private schools have been established against the will of the host municipality. This makes it more difficult for local politicians to plan their own schooling. What is the total number of pupils at private primary and secondary schools, how much has it increased since the changes to the private school law, and how many of these have been created against the will of the host municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1446	The vast majority of students in Norway attend public schools. About 3.6 pst. of primary school students attend private schools. Also in the future, the vast majority of students will go to public school, and the government's main job is to strengthen the public school. At the same time, colleges are important. They are alternative and complementary to public schools, and they help to ensure the individual’s right to choose between different schools. Publicly funded incubators can also contribute to diversity, development and inter-school learning. Free schools must operate in accordance with legal requirements for content and quality. The new law on free school came into force two years ago. The law means far from any free slip. The approval system is discretionary and only schools operating on one of the legal basis of approval may be approved. In new law, two new foundations are added. There is secondary education in a vocational education programme, and there is a specific profile, so-called profile schools. It follows from the law that authorisation should not be granted if it would lead to negative consequences for the host municipality. The host municipality has the right to express its opinion before granting approval under the Law on Secondary Education. The opinion shall be taken into account, but the host municipality has no right of veto. The decision is whether the host municipality can justify and be sure that approval will have negative consequences for the public school offer. I point out that today's approval system is a continuation of the practice under the former private school law, under which the red-greens themselves fell. I believe that the legislation has a reasonable balance between the consideration of the host municipality on the one hand and the consideration of parents and the ability of young people to choose between different schools on the other. So to the answer to the direct question from the representative: in the current school year, a total of 21,616 students are registered, divided into a total of 228 private primary schools. Since the amendments to the Act as of 1 August 2015, a total of 49 new primary schools with a total of 6 605 pupils have been approved. I draw attention to the fact that most of these schools are approved on the basis of the qualifications which were passed on from the previous law. For information, 19 primary schools are approved according to the new profile school basis. Most of these are secondary schools with special professional attention in the field of sport. Since 1 January 2015, host municipalities have expressed a negative opinion on 11 of the 49 approvals of new primary schools. Me and the representative Mani Hussaini may disagree with our view of the importance of primary schools. But it must be improperly worth noting to him that much of the development he describes is just as much a result of the policy that this government is running, as it led his own government, since the great majority is approved under the law of his government itself. The difference, however, is that I have always been a defender of the importance of high school for a more diverse school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1461	I thank you for your answer. One of the finest things about our country is that everyone can meet in the primary school regardless of their background, everyone can have the same opportunities in the primary school. Either you're a child of a director or of a janitor, you get equal opportunities to succeed. We know that schools need to be closed because private schools are being set up. In Hordaland, for example, we've seen several of these examples: children don't get equal opportunities when there's a bigger and bigger divorce. My question to the Council of State is: Is the government satisfied with the development that has been in the last four years, and where is the ceiling for how many private schools we are going to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1470	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the representative Hussaini that some of the great thing about Norway is that the students go together at school, regardless of social background. There is also some reason why we have had publicly funded incubators over a long period of time and with an alternating political majority. What we're talking about then is not just private schools that can take as much dividends or school money as they want, but those that get state aid. Of course, if they are to receive State aid, they must also meet some very strict requirements. They can't sort students, they can't take high proportions, and they can't teach what they want. When the representative refers to Hordaland, the situation under the code is the red-green government itself. The schools he refers to there were approved under the law of the Red-Green Government. What we've done is not to liberalize start-up, support or dividends, but we've said that there are two new categories that can be approved. It's professional schools, and it's profile schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1477	When VG writes that there has been a double in the number of private schools under this government, I had hoped that the council had given better answers. We know that several private schools go beyond the quality of education. We can only look at our neighbouring country Sweden, where there has been character inflation in schools, and the quality of education is falling. I have asked a lot of questions on many occasions about referring to countries that have privatised the school and obtained better results. After all, the aim of the policy must be to achieve better results, and then we can put away the ideological skyscrapers. Then the question to the Council of State is, Can he refer to a country that has privatised the school and got better results for the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1484	There are very many different countries that have different policies on this. What's been important to us is to have a law of free school that allows you to get publicly funded health schools, not just private schools for those who can afford it. To just take a few figures, under the Stoltenberg government, 96 primary schools and 20 secondary schools were approved. Under the Solberg government 98 primary schools and 12 secondary schools are approved. Either the representative Hussaini now announces a completely new free school policy from the Workers' Party, where one should put some roof or give veto rights to the municipalities, or something similar – or this is a development that comes from someone having a good idea and starting something new. I think it's nice if we're going to stand in this room and not see the important supplement that the colleges are for the public school. But it obviously assumes that they're just that, a supplement, and that it's not a release. We've been very strict about that. In fact, we have tightened the conditions for obtaining approval by listening to the host municipalities better with our legislation than they were under the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1493	Case No. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-25.ana.ud320e1507	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has asked for the floor. The meeting has been cancelled.
