ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e28	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e33	On behalf of the representative Torhild Bransdal and myself, I would like to propose alternative forms of reaction than expulsion and entry ban in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e54	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first question is from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e63	The state budget, which we saw last week, contains a series of petty cuts, we can now read. They hit the weak hard, but it has very little to say for the balance of the budget. The appropriations for organisations such as the Animal Alliance, the Geitmyra Food Culture Centre and the Matsentralen in Oslo were cut. I've been to Matsentralen, and it's a place that gets too little. There is a type of initiative supported by public funds that triggers a lot of private activity. They reduce food waste, they make sure that people who are not in the labour market get a job, and they also make sure that food comes to people who need it. I've been witnessing a strange sight this past week. The representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, and even the members of the government who have made the budget, are now out and canceling the support of the organisations they see as being cut and as they like. However, the Court of Justice, Wayback and Matvett are now to be supported. We'll hear that this is an accident at work. I am pleased that these organizations can now continue to do their work, which makes our society warmer and more environmentally friendly for a very cheap money, helps people with drug problems back to work, formerly convicted, etc. But the list is longer, because there is a pattern of cutting off organisations that are just preparing for the weakest, such as Gate Jurist, Legal Advice for Women, JURK, Jussbuss, Church City Mission, Crisis Centres, Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation and Free Legal Assistance in Oslo. But now, government members and representatives from the government parties have put us on track: this is about work accidents. Then my question is, can the Prime Minister clarify about cutting back on the support of the organisations I mentioned here, also about work accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e72	Let me start by saying that I think we must have put forward a very good government budget adapted to the economic situation. When it comes to this discussion, the representative of the main opposition party takes as its first question in the context of the state budget, I am pleased, because then we have actually put forward a government budget that seems to be adapted to the major challenges. In this state budget, it's over 11 billion. kr to non-governmental organisations of different types. This is an increase over the last year's budget of about 120 million. kr. But then there are reductions in some areas. There are different reasons for the different reductions. Some areas are justified by the fact that others have been strengthened. For example, in the case of legal advice, an important reason is that we spend almost 47 million dollars. kr more on the protection scheme, which is legal aid to the most vulnerable. That means there might be a little bit less need in other areas. And there has to be room for us to bet in one area. The major challenges in the future are that we need to find room for investment through redistribution, not just through extra funds all the time. In the field of the Minister of Agriculture, there are a number of organisations that have received support without objective criteria behind the aid. That is why we in the budget have removed support in this area. I think it is important that we think that there should be objective criteria for what support is given to the various departments and that there is a need to look through that kind of aid in the future. In terms of whether we know what's in the budget: yes, the entire government is behind the budget that has been put forward. In the case of Matvett, it is that they are supported by two departments. Among other things, they receive greater support from the Ministry of Climate and Environment than from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment will continue to support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e83	I can promise the Prime Minister a fierce debate on the state budget when we come to the finance debate and on the state budget. But we can say that the government wants to cut the funds of the Gate Lawyer, Jussbuss and more, so it's not a work accident, and the question is why. This is about principles. It's small amounts, but big political messages. Last week, the Prime Minister and I stood here, and then she talked about how it was right to cut the support of the Islamic Council of Norway, but to maintain support for the Human Rights Service because it contributes to diversity of opinion. This is in principle. Erna Solberg thought we had to put up with support for organizations we don't agree with. In other words, the Human Rights Service will receive support to contribute to the diversity of opinion – with arguments she felt were horrific as they drove photo persecution of people on the street – but the Gate lawyer, Legal advice for women and Jussbuss will not get it. Does the principle of using public money to preserve public opinion only apply when organisations – such as the Human Rights Service – support under the political agenda of the government parties, and not when they are critical of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e90	It is not possible to go through the state budget and say that we have removed support for organisations that are critical of the government. At that time, we had a great savings potential, because very many of the organisations that receive support, and also some of those that get more, are strongly critical of government policies in different areas. It's like this with non-governmental organisations: they work for their agenda, their questions, their affairs. We had a discussion about the Human Rights Service in the previous round. This is the only organisation that has a different attitude to immigration than the others on that list. Then you can discuss whether there are good enough criteria, but last year there was a new criterion system for which support is to be given. At that time, Stortinget agreed to support more votes, including votes that differ from those who are positive and work for the rights of immigrants, within the same position. Human Rights Service has been supported by the State budget since 2005, and the amount of aid is now at the same level as it was in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e97	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e102	The person who is right will get right – not the strongest, not the one with the most resources. Nevertheless, access to legal help when one needs it is very different. It depends on whether you have a lot or little money, and the distance between having the right and getting the right is too big. We believe that we need to reduce that distance and not increase it, and in that context, the legal aid measure plays an important role. There's a right to justice, that more people who are right can actually get right. That's why I think the organizations that Jonas Gahr Støre mentions need far-sighted and proper framework conditions. When the government is now cutting off the legal aid measure – even though the Prime Minister seemed very satisfied with it – my question to the Prime Minister is: What will the Prime Minister say to those people who today receive the necessary help from organizations such as Jussbuss, such as the Gate Jurist, like JURK, who have no other alternative? What does the Prime Minister want to say to those people?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e109	We are concerned that there should be a good legal protection for the weakest. One of the reasons we do re-priorities is that we implement a significant strengthening of the protection system, which has cost considerably more money. This means that there is more money for defence in this budget – because we have higher costs – for the very weakest, for lonely asylum seekers who come here and need protection, and for others who need protection and help in situations. Although there is a decrease in this year’s government budget for special legal aid measures, we propose a total of 35 million. NOK – there is still 4 million. kr higher than that in the 2013 budget. So if it's a scandal and it's terrible, you have to ask, what was the red-green government's own budget characteristic in 2013, which was 4 million? kr lower than what we have in this budget for legal aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e116	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e121	Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that there should be objective criteria for which organisations should receive support. Therefore, all the organisations involved in building interests have been completely cut. It's not cut 10 pst., 20 pst., 30 pst. or 50 pst. - 100 pst. have been cut off from all organisations working with building interests. Is there an objective criterion for cutting support for all those organisations? One of the most demanding debates in the last year was on predatory policies. Interestingly, the organization that was critical of the government’s predatory policy has received 100 pst. Cut in its budget – absolutely everything – and get zero dollars, while the organisation that supported the government’s predatory policy receives more than $3 million. kr. What are the objective criteria for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e129	From the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, there are some non-governmental organisations that have been supported, with the whole aid scheme being removed. One of the most supported organisations is 4H, a children’s and youth organisation that also receives support from other schemes, such as: the same support as all other children’s and youth organisations. In addition, they have received specific support for historical reasons because 4H has been more closely linked to agricultural policy and to agricultural development in the future. Something else you could ask questions about is whether it's right to continue with that kind of scheme. Overall, it's interesting to hear that you're busy with these cuts in such a large budget – with 11 billion. kr to the voluntary sector and by 120 million. kr in the increase of various items. We have e.g. the allocation of more money for action against child poverty, to voluntary measures for the most vulnerable groups. We have prioritised some of the areas in which we perceive that it is very important to get better action.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e136	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e141	There is no reason to rejoice too early — the Prime Minister will have questions about all the other cuts she's behind, too. The government has announced tougher times. The big question is: tougher times for who? Judicial aid cuts and cuts to non-governmental organisations are just some of the many cuts proposed in this budget and in the past. It's cut off the day-to-day allowance for the unemployed. We know that many people who have medications on white prescription, now fear large increases in expenses. We've seen the parental rebellion against cuts in care money. In the past, we have increased the proportions of cancer and fire damage. Poor caregivers have lost money. Alone caregivers have lost money. People who have lost their jobs have been taxed on the termination allowance. But there's always someone who gets more of this government. This time it is, for example. those with a share capital. My question to the Prime Minister is, when she says that everyone in Norway who can work now has to work, why does the Prime Minister think that people who have a lot more, if they get more, and that people who have little, provide more if they get less?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e152	The comment to which the representative refers is about the changes in the right to benefit from the day-to-day allowance. The change is that you have to earn 1.5 G in the last year in order to earn the right to profit. We think it's right that even if you choose to do other things, for example. have a year off, have a part-time job or leave the labour market for various reasons, it is advisable to have a link with the labour market. 1.5 G as the minimum link to get the daily allowance in the future, we think we're healthy for everyone. It is not the case that those who become unemployed directly from a job receive less daily allowance. We also extend the benefit base from 1.5 G. Care allowance, sickness benefit and study support will now also be included in that scheme. So it will be those who for other reasons choose not to work a year before they become unemployed, who should earn 1.5 G and have a relationship with the world of work. I believe that this is an important form of motivation for everyone to have a close relationship with the future of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e157	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e162	It's a little confusing what's the main theme of this question, and it's also a little confusing from what the Workers' Party said the main theme of the question was. But I'm going to try to stick to the question that was originally asked – in fear of being clubbed by the president. What amazes me a little bit in what the Prime Minister answers is that you cut off non-governmental organisations because you've been so good at government arrangements. I can't understand that is traditional, good right-wing policy – that you want the government arrangements to grow, and then cut into the efforts of volunteers to do the job that government arrangements have been asked to take over. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is it a desire to have a lower degree of volunteering, or is it a desire to build up the state arrangements, so that they become larger and volunteering becomes less? Is it the ideological grip taken in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e171	The ideological grip can be seen through 11 billion. DKK to non-governmental organisations and 120 million. kr in increase. New projects and other areas need to be measured against those changes. However, in some areas, making better rights-based schemes — such as the protection scheme, how minors and those in need in Norway have improved and where we spend more money on it — is a prerequisite that it is also likely that there will be less demand for other types of legal assistance, which has often met the needs for relief. That is why we have – of course also on the basis of a general idea that we need not only to spend more on a budget each time, but also to find new arrangements that are getting better – that we also need to adjust and see where we can reduce expenditure. That is not an ideological attitude. But in some areas, when making the schemes more rights-based and state-based, it also provides the basis for reducing the activity of volunteers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e176	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e181	When I hear some of the posts earlier here, I think back to the red-green period, when we developed the sentence: the free will lives off the light, but dies under compulsion. One of the most important things we have been ideologically agreed on has just been that volunteering needs the most freedom possible to flourish and to do the important tasks that volunteering does. I have no faith that the Prime Minister wants to cut in or take away the volunteer – I know how busy she is of it. But when we go through the budget, we see quite systematically that it's all about cutting off important posts to non-governmental organisations, whether it's organisations working with children and youth and doing a fantastic job, or it's those who do an important job for those who need it the most. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has been mentioned. There is a justification that the operation of non-governmental organisations should be carried out independently and not dependent on support from the country. Is there a reason that the government is behind, or is it just one that comes from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e186	The challenge facing the Ministry of Agriculture and Food budget is that some of the organisations that have received money there for historical reasons also receive money from elsewhere and are in a slightly different situation than other organisations, such as the United Kingdom. children’s and youth organisations that receive much less money because they have not had a particular connection with that sector in the same way, despite perhaps doing such important voluntary work. There are some unfairness in how we allocate appropriations to non-governmental organisations, which I think we should look forward to. We're concerned that we're going to have a growing and increasing volunteering in Norway, but it's not certain that keeping exactly the arrangements that have been in the past is right. But I disagree with a statement from the representative if, in principle, we are supposed to say that volunteering should not have public support. I don't think that's what the Ministry of Agriculture and Food meant either. Mass volunteering will need a system such as Norwegian, including basic support, but then we should have objective criteria, and that is not the background for those support schemes in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. There have been historical reasons and not objective criteria for who has received money or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e191	Let's go to the next main question. The President will encourage those who have additional questions to move forward in the Chamber. I'll call you next, and then you go ahead. Then we'll get more progress in the questionnaire and maybe space for more questions. Marit Arnstad – for main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e201	We're going to continue on the same subject. I have to say, I'm a little surprised that the Prime Minister is minimizing this issue. Yes, there's enough small money on the big government budget, but it has very big consequences for the organisations that are now being hit by cuts. The voluntary sector cannot be replaced by State measures. The voluntary sector plays an invaluable role, the state cannot solve everything. Through the voluntary sector, we get ten times out of the resources deployed — cohesion, and people work free of charge for society, for social inclusion. On his blog last summer, the Prime Minister wrote about volunteering: ‘Freedom is an important force in Norway. Making an effort for others also gives something back. At the same time, it promises our society." I could not agree more. But the more incomprehensible it is that one reduces support to so many organisations. It concerns the Forest Company, Animal Protection, Public Reaction New Animal Policy, Hage Company, Food Center in Oslo, Nature and Youth, NOAH, Birötterlaget, Norway's Well, Building Youth Act, Norwegian Salmon Society, Norwegian Cultural Heritage, Spire, Young Entrepreneurship, 4H, Norwegian Children's and Youth Organizations Council, Legal Advice for Women, Jussbuss, Jussverdienstingen in Bergen, Jusshelpja in Nord-Norge, Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled, NOAS, Pro Centrete, Support Centres against Incest, Church Bymition, Gate Lawyer in Stavanger, Tromsø, Bergen, Kristiansand, Trondheim and Inland, to name a few. This is not the case in the big government budget, but the question remains: why was this necessary, and what consequences does the government think this will have for individual organisations and for volunteering as such?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e215	It is the case that many positive increases are also made in the budget for non-governmental organisations. Among other things, the framework for volunteering centres is increased by 15 million. kr, which triggers more voluntary work through the unorganised voluntary work, and there is an increase in the VAT compensation scheme, a total of 11 billion. kr. We're increasing the response to child poverty by 26 million. kr, which are actions that go to organisations that are active for the most vulnerable and those that need, for example. holiday and leisure services. So it's not that the picture is that we cut over a low shoe to non-governmental organizations, the picture is more varied than that. In an area where the cuts are in the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, it is because we are also making other priorities that help us to increase and support under legal support. I have to say that in any state budget you have to go through and see what are the main priorities in the future, what is the most important thing we have to do, what new measures we are going to take. In the future, all the new measures cannot come to the top of the old ones, so there must be new measures instead of the old ones. So when we have a protective measure order that increases by 47 million. kr, which thus contributes to better legal rights and help to the weakest, and it is not possible to have room for all the other arrangements. We have reached a point where it is no longer that we should not have cut and changed the state budgets – so we have done so in this state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e222	The cuts are systematic — in the department by department — all over the poultry. Maybe the cuts are suggested because the government knows that the Christian People's Party and the Left will try to reverse them. In this case, it is a very unfine and disrespectful way of dealing with both volunteering and other parties in the Storting. In previous replies, the Prime Minister referred to objective criteria. If you're going to carry out a process where you're going to change and then enter objective criteria, you should have a process with the organisations it specified. In fact, you should have been a little decent, did it in a real way, not just do a cut over the night from 1 January 2018. So that's the problem that the objective criteria obviously apply to someone, but not to others. There are three organizations that were proposed to cut, as the government has suddenly found money for anyway – Wayback, Retreat and Matvett. I support these organisations, but what is the difference between the job they do and the job that other organisations do? Is it so simple that the criterion for reversing the state budget is that the Prime Minister is in a difficult situation because of previous statements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e231	As far as the three organisations are concerned, Matvett is supported by the Ministry of Climate and Environment's part of the State budget. There is greater support than that provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and they will continue to have support through the future support scheme of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. As regards the changes related to the organisations in the field of justice, there is a difference between those providing legal advice and those providing support and assistance in the field of rehabilitation and repatriation. There, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has transferred more to free applications, so that it will be possible to apply for a larger amount there than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e236	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e241	Today Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that what she maintains is the objective criteria – that is, like the fixed point. That's very interesting, because what's the objective criteria, obviously, varies all the time. And then the question to the Prime Minister is, what are the objective criteria to cut off absolutely all support for everything that has to do with building interests? It's going to be cut 100 pst. Is this an objective criterion? She promises 4H, but for absolutely all organisations that have to do with building interests – which have had a separate line on the Ministry of Agriculture and Food budget – the aid will be cut to DKK 0. Are these the objective criteria – as long as they have a field of interest? Then I asked a question to the Prime Minister instead: why is it that the organization that was critical of the government, the People's reaction to a new predatory policy, gets cut everything, while the organization that supported the government, WWF, continues everything?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e248	Now it is well that the strongest criticism I have heard is from those who have criticized us from the other side of predatory policy, namely NOAH, who also criticizes us for getting less money because the system under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has been liquidated, and which has been clear and strong in the criticism of government policy from the other side of the predatory bit. The background to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's social welfare scheme is that it is considered that, when objective criteria were not implemented in the Grand Duchy last year, it is difficult to maintain specific support for organisations that are on this State budget for historical reasons, without objective criteria being allocated. So you have to make some choices. The size would not introduce objective criteria last year. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Government’s assessment have been that then it is difficult to maintain a social welfare scheme of that kind in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e255	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e260	Kokk Andreas Viestad, who is involved in the training of children and young people at the Geitmyra food culture centre, has pointed out a great deal. Six months ago, the government presented a national action plan for better diet. It says to cooperate with volunteers. I therefore wonder whether the Prime Minister believes that the cut to the food culture centre for children is the right way to cooperate and follow up the agreement and plan set out in the national action plan for better diet. Similarly, we see that it is cut to the volunteers who distribute food to the poor on the Matsentral. In the government’s agreement against food waste, many fine words about monitoring and reporting are used, but those who carry out the job in practice and ensure that food can benefit disadvantaged people will lose their support. Does the Prime Minister think that the cuts now proposed are a good follow-up to the words contained in both the national action plan on better diet and the agreement on food loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e267	The Government follows up the agreement against food waste through several measures. One of them is that the country has assumed a significantly greater responsibility for statistics and for following up its work. There's food centres more places than in Oslo, but there's only one place that's been supported. You have managed to organize this in other ways, and donating food is actually the responsibility of the chains and companies. What the companies themselves have agreed to in this agreement is actually to deliver. It is possible to establish these systems in other ways than to have 300,000 kroner above the state budget for one food centre in one place in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e272	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e278	What's the problem is that cutting doesn't follow a principle. Norwegian Cultural Heritage, an organisation dedicated to the preservation of the Norwegian cultural heritage, has not been found to support this principle: ‘The functioning of voluntary organisations should be independent and not dependent on annual government transfers.’ This is a direct quote from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. On the other hand, an organisation that Human Rights Service found supportive. Why does the principle that voluntary organisations should operate independently and not depend on annual government transfers, Norwegian Cultural Heritage and not Human Rights Service apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e285	This is because the Human Rights Service system receives money, has a different reason – that it should contribute to integration and knowledge, and that all voices around integration, including the problematic aspects, should be heard. That's why there are different reasons. There is, therefore, a criterion set of support for the concept of integration, information and knowledge that is clear, while there is a historical reason for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that some organisations have received money without any criteria. And that also means that you can't go in and evaluate whether they've met the criteria you've actually set. This can be done in an assessment of the objectives put in place for the scheme in the field of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e290	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e295	We promise to work for a clear head, warm heart, good hands and good health. Then I have declared the 4H-lift. I want to return to a joint play that the four majority parties had in the election campaign in August 2013 in Dagbladet. There was a civil agreement to increase the gift deduction and increase the VAT compensation. In that play, among other things, there were: the removal of red tape for volunteers, the increase in the proportion of state aid to children’s and youth organisations should go to operational support rather than project support, and the overall review of all national support schemes should be carried out. The cut that comes from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food now to the many organizations, on the contrary, generates more bureaucracy, more project support, and goes all the way across what we have as ambition. The question is: when will the overall review of all national aid schemes be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e304	I am pleased to say that we have managed to meet all the criteria and everything that was agreed in 2013 between the four parties – perhaps with the exception of the overall review of the aid schemes. That's why it's one of the things that we want to look at now. It's not something we have had the opportunity or time to get through so far. Some of the organisations that are now being cut off are not supported by others. But some people get very much support from other departments as well and receive support as children’s and youth organisations. There's enough reason to see if there's a fair distribution of support for different types of activities, that it's not just on a historical basis. We're going to do that review, and then we're going to decide what these arrangements are going to be like in the future. A dilemma that arises is that one has a situation where it is difficult if we don't have any clear criteria for why organisations are on different schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e311	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e316	It is interesting to hear the reasons given to the Prime Minister, and it is clear that there are different reasons for different items. For example, for the Christian People's Party it will. be important to re-establish the boundaries of the Church’s Bymission’s work with the Street Lawyer, which is an important legal aid measure. There are several hundred million dollars spent each year on free legal aid. Here it's about a few million who reach a lot. Or we have e.g. The Gospel Center and the arms of the Salvation Army, which have very good results and provide relatively small money, compared to the large sums spent through the public. The food centre is another example that has been mentioned. They reach widely, when many, for a reasonable money. But when I hear the reason, I'm a little uncertain about how important it is for the Prime Minister to cut those posts. If we go into budgetary negotiations with a goal of increasing them, is there strong opposition from the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e325	I'm too much like there's not necessarily room for a government budget, so if you agree to find room for them with other priorities, that's fine. It's going to be the reality in the years to come that there are many positive things we can be for by activities, but then we also have to dry out asking questions about old activities we've supported, and know why we're continuing to support. In the case of the work related to the Gospel Centre and part of the others, they do well to be part of a grant-based scheme. It was significantly increased last year, it is not under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. There we have proposed an allocation equal to the actual level of application, as it looks now. So it's not really a cut, because there's not so many people who have applied for what it was the Storting's intention to give money to do in this area. But we may not be able to earmark money for individual organisations on an application-based scheme. Then they have to search, and then there have to be criteria for them to get. I'm sure they have good applications, and then they'll be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e332	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e337	Now we're talking about families with seriously ill children. While there are good times for people with stock assets to meet, there are a good number of families with seriously ill children who are concerned about the consequences of the change of care arrangements. When the Prime Minister discusses this, she tends to be concerned about the improvements that have come. We're happy with them, too. That's not why we take this matter up again. But we are concerned about the dramatic income cuts that the new scheme involves, with lower incomes after one year, and also the limitation of five years, which affects families with seriously ill children beyond this limit. Today I have met three mothers, all of whom have seriously ill children. In the middle of tough situations and tough everyday life, they stand up, talk loud and take the fight to have a good care scheme, which ensures people security in difficult times and all the children who need it. Those are strong stories. There are families who warn about what kind of hopeless situation these rule changes will create, if they are put to life. I think the Prime Minister should listen to them. We have to take care of these families. We have to make sure that families with seriously ill children know that they have security, that they should not choose between being there for their children when they need it, and being able to pay their bills. Reference is made to municipal schemes, which are very often not good enough, and it is also obvious that costs will quickly be high by relying on public aid to do so instead of those closest to the children, namely the parents. Therefore, my questions are to the Prime Minister: Does she acknowledge that the conversion of the care allowance system is bad for seriously chronically ill children, children who are seriously ill over a long period of time, or get sick several times through growth? And will she consider turning around and asking the Right Party and the Advance Party big groups vote for the SV's proposal to correct these cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e350	I have no doubt that there are many touching stories – I have also read and seen many of them – about parents with sick children. I've been reading them for years. I also read them when I was a member of the Health and Social Committee. One of the reasons why we have made the changes we have made in the care scheme is the large number of parents with sick children – especially chronically ill children, i.e. children who are either not healthy or going to die – who have often fallen out of the care scheme, except in such intensive periods where they were in hospitals. So they fell out. That's the improvement that lies here, that parents of permanently ill children who need it, also come in. It's been an important task for us to do, because there's been some touching, tough stories that haven't been supported before. So we've more than doubled the allocation to it, and it's in full effect from next year. It's like from 1 October, when the arrangement has entered into force, everyone gets to zero. That means that everyone gets a time account from now on, so the next year there's no change in what is, for some families. I take note that it was a unanimous decision that we should look at improvements in the care system and look at changes that were to be made, but there are some discussions that we must then take. Shall we start with new boundaries between the groups – those who have seriously ill children who may die or be healthy, that is, those who are not chronically ill? So we're going to have one arrangement for them, which makes them, for example, gets 100 pst.? They are often the ones who have appeared in the media related to it. Or are we going to separate the two groups? There is a significant uncertainty as to what costs are. We've chosen a system that's related to the system that's for adults who are ill. You get sick money for one year, and then you get redundancy money, a level that is lower, in the years that follow – as others also have to adapt. It is possible to spend five years on care, so there are 1,300 days in total with the current system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e364	The Prime Minister is right that it has become a fine system, in the sense that it is related to other systems. The problem is that these stories show that it has no connection with real life, the everyday life and the challenges these families face. What Storting needs to know is whether the Prime Minister really wants to take this on board and is willing to change it. The alternative is that the Storting itself changes it. I think that -- in the light of what the Prime Minister is saying now, and what she said last week -- is clearly the best option. Let me take one example of a problem: Children have a legal right to have parents with them when they are hospitalised – fortunately. When a child is seriously ill and is in an institution, it is obvious that it should keep its parents close. But has the government considered the consequences of the new system if parents have used up their rights to care, and the child needs new operations or introductions? Is it then taken into account that the parents' right to be present is real, or will they – as the system seems to be working now – lose this income? Is the Prime Minister ready to turn around and admit that there are major problems here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e371	There's a consensus between all the parties in this room that we're going to look at the care scheme and changes to it, and that's what the government is going to do. We're glad we've lifted the improvement, i.e. we've doubled the number of families and children who get help and support. I'm proud of that, I've fought for it – against Audun Lysbakken – in the last period, and I'm glad that I've delivered on my election vows attached to this. It is clear that making improvements to this scheme is fully feasible. What we have to do is know where the boundaries go, but it's also part of a budget question. It is important to say that changes cannot take effect until the summer, but they do not have to. Then we have to have time to review and find budgetary coverage for any changes, and we have to submit to the Storting proposals for changes based on that. The representative refers to the experience now. There is no experience yet with the new care allowance scheme, except that everyone gets 100 pst. It is an opening, i.e. an exceptional arrangement, precisely for the type of cases to which the representative refers, which was adopted in Stortinget before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e380	There will be follow-up questions – first Solfrid Lerbreck.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e385	When children become ill, the community should be set up. The conversion of the care scheme causes many families with seriously ill children to be concerned about their finances. To reduce income to 66 pst. after one year provide insecurity for families who already have a very difficult situation. Kids don't get any healthier because parents get a big cut in or lose their care money. I have one question: what specific advice will the Prime Minister give to families who have to deal with getting much poorer, as well as that their youngsters are seriously ill?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e392	My advice is that it must be assessed. First of all, the whole next year, you have 100 pst. coverage. Everyone with care starts from point zero, no one has had any changes in their situation since October 1. I see sometimes it's claimed that from October 1st, people get a lot less money. No, it's not like that, because it's 100 pst. coverage, all started with a new time account from the start of the new scheme. So it's open to search separately when the child is sick and has to be treated with a serious illness. It was adopted in Stortinget before the summer. We need to look at improvements in the system based on the decision taken by a unanimous increase. I think everyone has been committed to this. I am glad that this government has raised the allowance to a new level, that we have actually, contrary to what the previous government did, seen the sick children and their families in this country. It's possible that what we've suggested, and what we've been through, is not perfect. We're willing to look at new arrangements. But emotional rhetoric that someone does not see the sick children, I really think we should have avoided – taking into account that we have significantly lifted the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e401	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e406	As the representative Lysbakken said, this morning we met with parents who are affected by the restrictions on the Right and the Advance Party have put into the care scheme. The parents are now with them, so the Prime Minister has a unique opportunity to speak directly to them. The previous representative asked the Prime Minister what to do, which I did not think the Prime Minister answered. So to sharpen that question further, one of the cuts is that the care allowance for mentally retarded people is stopped when the child is 18 years old. Parents would very much like to have answers to the question: What does the Prime Minister think is the alternative for parents of mentally retarded children when care is stopped without the child’s need for parental support changing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e413	This is one of the arrangements we're going to look at, based on the decision taken last week in Stortinget. To deliver on the decision that is just made, I don't think I can do from the pulpit here. But you have the assurance that this system for all those who have a time account works with 100 pst. future coverage. The background is that when a mental retardation becomes 18, he or she has independent rights. Then you go into all the arrangements that exist for adults, and you've thought that this is a reason why you don't need the same type of arrangement for your parents. It's possible that that's not right. Now we're going to go through the different parts of this system. But it's important to remember that everyone over the age of 18 has independent rights. It is possible to apply for aid in some areas, and it is possible to get help. Welfare pay in municipalities is one of these areas. Care allowance is actually a compensation for temporary loss of income, not a scheme to help parents take responsibility for the care of their children – it is still a public task in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e422	Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e427	For the Central Party, it is very important to have good arrangements for relatives with special responsibility for care. The new care allowance scheme for sick pups entering into force on 1 October of this year has been strongly criticised by the families who have suffered a reduction in their performance, thus experiencing a more precarious and precarious situation in a demanding everyday life. During the debate on the throne, a group of collusion decided that the government should make proposals for changes to the care scheme that ensure more financial security and care for parents with care tasks. My question to the Prime Minister is this: will the government propose an extension of today's regime in which families with young people who are judged to have life-threatening or other very serious disease will retain 100 pst. compensation for wages and salaries in excess of one year, so as to provide for the families who have had such rights under the previous scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e432	We'll go through that decision, and then we'll look at different schemes and come back to the Storting. Now it's like everybody gets 100 pst. cover the next year because they have a new time account and thus start at point zero. That means that right now there's no one in the group that needs to worry, because now we start at point zero again. We want to look at the different parts of this. The decision in the Storting is not specific, but it is also the case that a legislative decision has to be taken, and a budgetary decision has to be taken. One has to have budgetary frameworks to expand the arrangements for the future. Whether that's the arrangement or someone else we're going to end up with, we're going to look for the discussion we're going to have. But in that case, it will create a new difference between those who have long-term ill children and those who have seriously ill children in a shorter period. There was a difference before, where those who had persistently chronically ill children did not receive any care allowance at all. That difference will then be reintroduced, so that parents will get less care if they introduce the scheme as it is now outlined from the queryor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e440	Steinar Reiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e445	I want to give tribute to the government for extending the care scheme to several groups who need it. It didn't happen under the red-green government. At the same time, targeted changes are needed to make the scheme even better for parents with seriously ill children. It's about the consideration of the children who need care, and good and predictable frameworks for their parents. The Prime Minister himself, in a previous response to the unanimous decision taken by the Stortingen a week ago, indicated that the government should come to the Stortingen with proposals for amendments. We in the Christian People's Party are happy that the government also realizes that there is a need for that. We need a proper review and a better estimate from the ministry of what different changes will cost. Then I also noticed that the Prime Minister says this is a budgetary question, and my question to the Prime Minister is: will the government in negotiations on the budget contribute to such targeted improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e454	Depending on the arrangements, the 2018 budget does not necessarily have a large impact on such a change. With the start of the time account at point zero from 1 October, it is in that case only a three-month effect. It's got to be a frame for it. The question is whether it should be done in budgetary negotiations now or whether it should be done in the context of the revised national budget. It may be a mechanism, and it is the system for those who have a mental retardation over 18 years, who are not part of the Time Account Scheme and start over again, who may have a greater impact from now on. These are things that we have to negotiate with the parties, but the usual thing is not that the government is proposing changes to the budget. They are usually the ones we negotiate with, who come up with proposals for changes in the budget. So it's free to make suggestions when we sit down and do this. But we're going to do the basic work on costs and regulatory changes that are necessary to look at some changes in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e459	We move on to the next main question – Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e464	I have questions about the following to the Prime Minister: Knowledge is a key to change and a key to growth. Over 130 years ago, when the Left won elections in this Chamber by a very majority, Norway was one of Europe's poorest countries, and the main left-wing project to lift us up was a massive investment in school and knowledge. The NRK refers to a new history that is coming, which analyses the development of Norway at that time. Now Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, but it is also facing enormous transformations and very demanding processes both in the face of new technology and in the face of a new and greener everyday life. What the history has brought up again was the 2005 survey in Sogn and Fjordane, which showed that there are some states that have a culture that allows you to break the picture that is always given, that it is the bookcase of parents who decide whether children succeed in school. There are four things that make the school in Sogn and Fjordane succeed better than others. The first and most important thing is a fundamental respect for the teacher. The second is parents who support students through school if they do not have long schooling. They're safe girls. And that's the advantage of having new Norse. Some political formulas are overdue. So my question to the Council of State is: isn't it to bet on school, knowledge, respect for the teacher – to bet on these knowledge drivers in a society – an eternal formula that is as current today as it was when the Left State applied?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e477	Well, I fully agree that it is vital that we have a good education system to meet the changes and changes we are seeing in the future. It is about the development of offers throughout the country, but it is also about the content. And it's about how society around it deals with education and the value of education. For example, the value of professionalism in this country, not only among us politicians, who talk nice about it, but also among people, because we need competent, good professionals in the years to come. It is an important part of our competitiveness and an important part of our level of knowledge to have good skilled workers. Respect for the teacher is important. We've done a teacher's vow in this period because we believe that it promises respect for teachers over time, and because that also means that we get more equal quality of teachers in Norway, at a higher level than we've had in the past. I think it's one part of the description of what's good in Sogn and Fjordane – it's very good with Sogn and Fjordane – that the representative Skei Grande didn't take along, and it's the collaboration between the Högskulen in Sogn and Fjordane and the municipalities' primary schools. It has been exceptionally good and has been a core element of quality development. I think that's important to take with me. When you have many small municipalities that individually can struggle to have quality development work that is strong enough, a college can do more of that, and it has really done so through its close contact with teacher training, teachers and quality development. It is a model for the rest of the educational institutions in Norway, to see how cooperation develops. This is why providing skills for those who lead the school, having quality development, is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e486	I fully agree with the Prime Minister's analysis of the importance of the relationship between teacher training and teachers. But it's at the very point of respect for the teacher. It's at the very point of respecting the knowledge that the teacher is actually with and managing, and I think that's one of the keys to the challenges we're facing today. We know that 8 pst. of those who are teachers in primary school, they only have secondary school. How can we think we're going to be able to increase respect for the teaching profession if we can't get a dramatic boost in competence and less use of unskilled at school? So the next step, if we're going to make the big promise that we need to make for the conversion of Norway today, is to re-establish respect for the teaching profession, to increase respect for knowledge and to ensure that this happens around all schools – that not the struggle for the most adults in the classroom will be the important struggle, when we need the most knowledgeable teachers with education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e491	I fully agree with the representative Skei Grande that it is incredibly important both with respect for the teachers and that we have highly qualified teachers in each classroom. Our goal is for all students to meet a highly qualified teacher in their classroom, one that is good both on the pedagogical side, on the academic side and on the subject itself. That's one of the reasons we've made stricter demands to get into teacher training. That's why we've expanded to masters of teacher training, which is why we have a hugely extensive programme of continuing education aimed at subjects where there is a low density of skilled teachers in school. All of this helps to lift the teachers. In addition, it is important that we have a good offer of continuing education, decentralised education, which promises people who work at school and who need to fill up to qualify to become a teacher. But we need more teachers in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e496	It opens for follow-up questions – first Jon Gunnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e501	I hear the Prime Minister say you should have professionally qualified teachers. Last week, however, the daily newspaper mentions a research report on special education in the school where special education is given special characteristics, and other studies reveal that the system of special education is not working. This means that students who receive this special education are quickly given a dissatisfaction stamp. They get excluded, they get social problems, they get less well-being, and they don't get their learning potential. It turns out that fewer than half of the students receive special education from specialised educators. Most are taught by unskilled assistants, despite the fact that all pupils with decisions on special education are required to be trained by a professional. We also hear from the contact teachers that it is such that they only get a medium profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e506	It's a well-known case, and there's nothing new about this report, that very many of those who receive special education don't get it from qualified personnel. It's been known, I think, for the last 15 to 20 years that there's been a pretty large proportion of this, and there's going to be more of a kind of storage for some than actual help instruction. This is one of the reasons why the government's targeted early efforts are about setting quality requirements for what to do, how to follow up, to get an intensive approach, and then we have to be able to reverse resource use so that we get more skilled teachers in special education. What we're doing with master's education is, among other things. to educate a lot more people with depression in breaking the reading and writing code – those I have called code crackers. There are many different ways to teach kids how to break the first codes, and not all teachers are just as good at it. Then there must be resources available. They don't have to have special pedagogical basics, but it could be that they're good code crackers, and then you get qualified help.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e512	Mona Little Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e517	Norwegian school screams for qualified teachers. Nevertheless, the government prevents motivated high-quality students from getting into teacher education because they don't have 4 in high-school mathematics. The result is that hundreds of study places are empty. At the same time, Prime Minister Solberg has separated his dream teacher, Jan Dubowski, former teacher at Sagene School. I must also mention Håvard Tjora, who is the whole of Norway's dream teacher, and more than 30 000 other skilled, experienced teachers. The reason for this is that it should increase the status of the teaching profession. But then I have to ask: which of these three options does the Prime Minister think challenges the status of the teaching profession the most: that Jan Dubowski and Håvard Tjora teach in Norwegian school, that teachers with high averages, but with 3 in mathematics, teach, or that 10,000 unskilled jobs as teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e524	The subject in which most of the professionals work is mathematics. The subject in which most of the teachers spend their time is mathematics. It's a relationship. When we've had many teachers who have taught mathematics without really being able to do it, it's been a challenge, which is also reflected in the fact that many students have not learned mathematics in such a way that they can master it further. We have to break that at some point. At some point we have to say that for a nation that thinks it's going to be digitized, technologicalized, that's going to live by being smarter in the future, basic mathematics skills are important -- you have to have that. That's why we have a large programme of continuing education in mathematics. This means that those teachers who are currently not qualified to teach mathematics in eight years' time have the opportunity to participate in the continuing education programmes that this government has set up in order to gain the skills to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e531	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e536	I want to go back to the topic of volunteering, and I'll do it with a slightly different input. In the Common Era, I noticed that the government used a term – or a heading – on it: «sustainable welfare society». Many say the state of sustainable well-being, and it's important in itself, but for society as a whole, volunteering is a very important part, because it's about how to solve the problems, and it's about what kind of society we want. I always think: a society with a strong civil sector, where many are volunteers, is a society that is much better than a society where it isn't. Because it's about people spending leisure time either on football training or on the choir, or at least create activity for the kids, which is incredibly important, or it's that people spend time and effort helping those who need it the most. Both parts create incredibly much positive in society. I also think it's often like that -- if you think about it yourself -- that when we do things that make sense to others, it gives a lot of back, so sum totals I think a creator of a much better society. That is why I believe that volunteering, or a strong civil sector, is actually an objective in itself, and should create a sustainable welfare society, is dependent on a strong civil sector. That's why the Christian People's Party is so clear that we want to fight for volunteering, for ideal actors, for the church, for the national colleges, for all parts of civil society. 60 pst. In Norway, it is time to work on a voluntary basis. It's amazing. The Prime Minister is talking about tight budgets and it's getting more demanding. Often you can also say that one dollar spent on volunteering returns $10. So my question is, when the government uses the term «sustainable welfare society», does the Prime Minister agree that we need more volunteering, a stronger civil sector – and not cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e550	I fully agree that we need more people who contribute on a voluntary basis. I think in some areas of life, we need to do something different about volunteering. This applies, for example: people in the health and care sector, who may have to do too much for some periods because the public is too poor. It's part of what we're going to go through with our older reform — see if we can give our relatives a better dose of contributions, so that the public comes up with better relief measures at an earlier time, so that people get better and better, but also that families and others who make an incredibly high level of voluntary effort are able to stand by and get a better experience of it all. I agree with all of the words that the representative Ropstad has said about volunteering, but that does not mean that we should always just keep everything as it has been. When, for example, increases the allocation to volunteer centres by 15 million. kr, is because with it we trigger a different kind of volunteering than maybe other types of organisations do. And then we have raised the VAT compensation a lot, which means that there is now more room than before for many non-governmental organisations, but there can't be any argument that any scheme should be maintained. I know, for example. not whether it's an argument for a wine class in folk high schools – I don't know if the Christian People's Party is very much for it – or for a salsa course. The fact that the state is going to subsidize short courses at the national colleges for people my age who have a lot of leisure time, and who may want to experience something new, may not be our primary goal in providing support for the higher education institutions. That's why we have put in a conversion in the higher education institutions that reduces the appropriations, but how the intention is to take out the short courses, which are primarily for adults, which we really think we should be able to pick up in other ways in terms of our own leisure activity, than from direct state aid. I think it's fun with both wine and salsa, but I don't think I need state aid to learn about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e557	I was a little uncertain about whether she should say that it was not necessarily fun for the Christian People's Party. I tend to say that in the South we are fully aware that Jesus made water for wine, but we don't like it! Actually, my purpose was not to go into all the budget cuts either, but we are going to take them into the budget debate. But that's more the principle and the superior, because it's a balance here, as the Prime Minister was in it. One shall not leave the burden to the individual, the relative shall take over, that is not the point of volunteering. Public and community shall stand around those who need it. The point is that one should spend less time in shopping and selling lots or selling Christmas calendars before Christmas, and spend more time doing the exercises, the volunteer work that helps so many. We've been to the VAT compensation. As I read it, it stands still – or at least there will be no more VAT compensation for the volunteers. But in terms of free income, less applications and such things: how does the Prime Minister think that we can make more provision for even more people to be voluntary, and that at least the figure does not go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e564	Firstly, there are increases in many grants to volunteers, and some of them are application-based schemes, because there are tasks to be solved in our society. Then I fully agree that there is a need for operating support, but we must also be a little concerned about what objective criteria we have for what we provide in operating support. If we look at the state as a whole, there are many organisations that have received some operating support from several departments, while similar organisations have not received anything because they have incidentally not been linked to that sector in the same way. This applies, inter alia, to: some children’s and youth organisations, who have received a lot of money in specific areas. Then I think that if you want to have money in specific areas in addition to general support, there should perhaps be project support with more objective criteria. We're going to do this review in the future of the arrangements, and then we're going to have to look at how we age. But even if we agree on the fundamental basis and on the big questions – and we have done a lot to get more money, among other things. in tax deductions on orphan inheritance and others – this cannot be an argument for each budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e573	There will be follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e578	The Prime Minister said it was commendable that in many respects it had to be made public in the past, and that many relatives are struggling out. Some organisations just come in because the public cannot or cannot intervene. Two of them are the Salvation Army and the Gospel Center, located under a pot that needs to be applied for, and that pot is reduced by 40 million. kr. It is an application-based system that requires a lot of bureaucracy, and where you have to apply every year. One does not know in December if one gets money next year, if no one earmarks those funds. In addition, the money was not paid before May, June, July. These organizations run on behalf of the public, they have patients, they have employees, they have families around who wonder how their prisoners are doing. I wonder what the Prime Minister thinks about the system, which is so application-based that it becomes... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e583	This is an arrangement which, in the budgetary agreement between the four parties last year, as far as I understand, increased by 100 million. kr. The 40 million reduction. kr is based on responsible budgetary practice. The application mass seems to be at a level of 40 million. kr less than that proposed in the budget. Thus, it is not a reduction or a cut for some organisations, it is a framework that is large enough, and that corresponds to what so far from the second round of applications seems to be the need – that is, it has been re-published. This is an application-based scheme, for projects are funded and operational support is provided through it. To have a different system requires a review of the criteria for operating aid. I think that requires a slightly larger race. This has always been an application-based scheme, and we cannot from the state designate individual organisations in an application-based scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e589	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e594	The Prime Minister said in a previous reply here today that legal aid and legal aid measures are less needed because the government has strengthened the protection system. It's quite eye-catching, because defence and legal aid can't be set up against each other. This is where the Prime Minister must speak against better knowledge. Blind people can call Phone News, 800,58,600, and read out today's newspapers. About 1,000 phones a month get this phone paper. So in the sequence of nonsocial cuts, we're going to find this. It is funded with NOK 600 000 – not entirely in line with the voluntary declaration launched by the government in 2015, which would ensure predictability and long-term sustainability. What will the Prime Minister say to the blind who are now deprived of the opportunity to follow up on what is happening, and why the entire support is removed in one budget, and not for example. half this year and the rest next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e601	I'm a little uncertain about what arrangement this is under, but we've increased the reading aid for the blind from 20 hours to 40 hours, so it's an increase, and when the budget was put forward, the Blind Alliance just thanked for an increase in support for the reading aid for the blind.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e606	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions. If I were to sum up the Prime Minister's answer on volunteering, I would say: the system over human beings, the objective criterion over engaged children and young people. Reasons are not reasonable. When the Right was to make lessons for 14,000 children and young people in 4H and their parents before the elections, they wrote in the budget proposal for the last year: ‘The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has had close cooperation with 4H Norway over several years. [[...]] In order to ensure that this cooperation can be continued, a separate item will be created under the heading from 2018. 1138.’» When the option was avoided, the answer to 4H was not that they received their own post on the state budget, it was that they were at the post, and were supported by over 7 million. kr. Can the Prime Minister explain why one has gone away from the promises in the budget for the past year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e623	I believe that there is no basis based on this state budget or on what I have said, to say that it is the system rather than man or objective criteria rather than engaged people. Objective criteria mean equal treatment for engaged people. This means that different organisations can apply for a pot for the actions to be undertaken or for operating aid based on a common activity and a common justification, rather than that some, because they have had a link with some sectors that have been stronger than others, have received a sustainable grant that has been protected. We have increased to a number of posts for non-governmental organisations. We've also reduced some arrangements. This means that we have given more free income to organisations through what we have done, and by making a tax deduction for contributions, which have increased, and which allows more non-governmental organisations to raise their own income. It is to ensure that masterless inheritance does not belong to the State, but is now part of a fund allocated to non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e628	Petter Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e633	Several have been upset about the cuts in the free legal aid system, and that is understandable, for this arrangement is of a very principleal nature. The Prime Minister has replied that this comes back in other posts. Nevertheless, this feels very strong. I want to raise the debate to a very fundamental level. The cut-off in the free legal aid system in some ways signals an undermining of a very beautiful rule of law, namely that legal aid should be provided independently of the people's wallet. So it has to be fair. The cut indicates that this principle of equality in the rule of law is not perceived as important to the government. In other words, maybe we're in front of a kind of a value triangle in this thinking. My question to the Prime Minister is: is it that the government here actively wants to tell us and the Norwegian people that one wants to change the values of this, wants to change the principle that the rule of law should be open and fair... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e642	I assume that what is now being addressed is the question of free legal assistance and not legal aid organisations. What we're doing is we're holding the lawyers' fees. That means there's an equal amount of help for everyone, but we're not adjusting the lawyers' fees. The legal fees are going to be NOK 1 020 per hour of free legal aid. There's no price adjustment in this. What we mean is that we don't have to pay the lawyers any more for the free legal aid – there are the same number of hours for free legal aid within the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e649	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e654	Yesterday, the Energy and Environment Committee met the head of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Dr. Hoesung Lee. The meeting was confirmed where the central work on carbon capture and storage is for the planet's climate. If we do not succeed in CO 2 management, it will be both much more expensive and much more difficult to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, Dr. Lee points out. Norway has a special responsibility in this field. Our wealth is largely based on significant contributions to CO 2 emissions to the atmosphere over many decades. To that end, in Norway we have a wide range of promising CCS projects related to both process and waste recovery, which are technologically at the forefront. Projects have been implemented through good public–private cooperation. The initiative is right in terms of climate policy and makes industrial policy sensible. By becoming world leaders in this technology, new opportunities also open up for Norwegian business in the future. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how it might be that the government in the state budget cuts 340 million. kr in the aid for on-going CCS projects. As the Prime Minister will have recorded, the proposal has met with strong criticism from many and very different teams. From Bellona to Norwegian oil and gas, from LO to NHO, protests have been hurled. There seems to be an unusually broad consensus that carbon capture and storage remains an important field of activity for Norway. In my view, the government in this budget proposes that 2018 should be a break in this important work. With this, the government sends a negative signal to the market and to the outside world that it is not fully convinced that CCS is the way to go. But if we are to stop the warming up of the globe in time, there is no time to lose. So what is the prime minister's reason for cutting this field right now, when the awareness of climate change drama and the significance of CO 2 management is greater than ever?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e674	I also had a meeting yesterday with the head of the IPCC. Hoesung Lee and I also had a discussion about carbon storage, which was his main theme, namely the potential we have for carbon storage on a Norwegian base. It's also one of the areas that's still going through for next year. We have now reached the point in the CCS discussion that we need to make a decision to move into the next phase. The background for the budget to fall now is that we will now enter into the summary and, if necessary, the decision-making phase of launching a new concept. That means that there is no need for the same amount of money to operate the investigation piece that has been inside, but then we have said that if we go further in the next phase, it will cost significantly more than 300 million. kr. Then we're talking about the annual amount of billions to be spent on subsidies in one of these budgets. We have to do that when we're done with the process around this. We have therefore believed that it was not right to spend more money than we have done before we have a decision and are done with the draft selection studies that allow us to come to Stortinget with a recommendation from the government that we should now clean one, to clean up more – and with the calculations and the financial costs that are. Here, the Storting must be aware that these are billions of dollars in the next few years, which must therefore be taken within the same framework as the transport effort, the defence effort and everything else we want to do, at school, education and everything else, and this will compete for the same kind of means. We're now really at the point that somehow becomes the decision time during this spring. This means that we believe that it would not be right to just keep working on the investigation, when we are now really on the summary and the work that will be done before Christmas and into January. And then we come to Stortinget during the spring semester.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e684	I am pleased that there is also a dialogue on storage in the North Sea, and we fully support that on our part. It's an important part of this work. But the projects that are now in full swing, under investigation and in preliminary operations in the process industry and waste management, are also very important. It is important that we have a technologically leading industry in this area – it is important for the climate, it is important for the industry. It is, as far as I have understood, good budgetary order that if you expect to spend money on this in 2018, it should be stated in the State budget and not given advance notice to the revised, as the Council of State Søviknes said here in the media recently, that there will be more money in revision. If you know that, you should put it in the budget now. The Prime Minister said in an earlier answer that this was a budget for the big questions, and I can hardly imagine any more questions than getting rid of the warming up of the globe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e693	The next step in this will result in the launch of a cost that will automatically mean payments of billions on the next three–four state budgets. That means it's right to have a decision in Stortinget before going on with it, and that's what the government's idea is. Now we're going to sum up, we're going to go through, we're going to make the cost calculations, we're going to make a decision about what we're going to recommend from the government to the Stortinget. It's coming in the spring. What numbers we were going to put into the budget would actually be a little bit unclear at the moment, because we're not in the area that we can say that. It's the moment of truth when it comes to CCS, which is now coming, and we're going to do this with a recommendation to the Storting, and not like the previous government right after a choice just put it in the drawer and end it, because it turned out to be too expensive. But no one should think that this is not going to take much of a room for action in the years to come. It must therefore be a priority in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e700	There will be follow-up questions – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e705	If we are to achieve the climate objectives, we need to take political action and find the future solutions that will facilitate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from industry as well. The Norwegian process industry has made significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions since 1990 and has clear plans to reduce the remaining emissions by 2050. This draft budget by the government puts into play the efforts that have been made around carbon capture. Both Yara and Norcem have come a long way in their full-scale fishing plans. The same thing is true of Klemetsrud with its combustion plant. Such great efforts need predictability and secure framework conditions in order to bring us up to date. Empty chat and cut does not reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Can the Prime Minister answer why you're going to cut here instead of bet? Because what's being said here is that you have to bet on it, and that's a lot of money. But you don't bring the money, you cut it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e712	I think I will refer primarily to my previous answer. So we're done investigating for Christmas. Now we're going to sum up. Then we're going to go into a possible implementation phase, which will involve billions of dollars. I heard in Stortinget that three projects should be carried out. There are significant amounts in the next few years, which, if we are to implement three, can be fast up to the size of the national transport plan in the annual priorities of the budget. If we're going to do one, of course it's less. These are the difficult choices. They'll come to Stortinget when we're done. There's always in projects an investigation phase, and it's going to be summed up, and then it's going to be decided whether to go on three, if you go on one, if you go on one, if you don't go on one. That's the point we get to in this spring. I am curious to hear if the Workers' Party intends to implement three. Then it'll be interesting to hear what level of taxation we're going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e719	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e724	Carbon capture and storage for industry is a prerequisite for achieving our climate goals. Instead of cutting it now, the government should have presented a financing plan for all three major point emissions in Norway that we know we need to implement in the next few years. Another important climate action that governments often highlight themselves is to make it easier to choose environmentally friendly for most people. That's why many of us were surprised when we saw that the government is proposing to increase the VAT on public transport from 10 p.m. to 12 pst. – this is after increasing the VAT from 8 pst. to 10 pst. Last year, which meant that Router in Oslo and Akershus lost 23 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. I would also like to remind the Prime Minister that Stortinget has decided that the growth of urban passenger transport should be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. The government writes in the draft budget that there will be some compensation, but Router now says that they expect to lose 16 million. kr this year because of the increase in VAT. Who does the Prime Minister think should take the cost of the government's increase in VAT on public transport? Should it be the municipalities or the travellers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e735	There might be something on the side of the main question, but since it's the first question hour, I think I can answer it. It's a system in which we compensate for the increase in terms of what the grants to the county councils represent, and what costs they have. It never hits 100 pst. for each county. Someone will end up getting a little bit more, and someone might get a little bit less. That's all transmission systems between state and municipality in this area. But we're increasing the consumption tax in Norway through this, and we're making our VAT system the same. You can be in favour of or against it, but there are solid efforts for collective development in this budget – over 600 million. kr. There is a great deal of collective effort, and collective protection is largely protected from what is done with the VAT changes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e742	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e747	I think I could choose what I'm going on with, but I'm doing it on carbon capture and storage. There is no doubt that carbon capture and storage will be necessary to achieve the international climate objectives, and that we will have negative emissions in the second half of this century. For a few years Norway has been on its own to have a stake, but we saw last week, with a new government in the Netherlands, that the Netherlands is embarking on a comprehensive commitment to carbon capture and storage with a reduction of 50pst. of emissions by 2030, and 20 pst. this shall be taken in carbon capture and storage. We from the Left are too thorough in planning, but we have to make sure that the time it takes doesn't make the projects disappear on the way. My question becomes to the Prime Minister: Is she safe, before the matter comes to Stortinget, that there is no such uncertainty that the projects themselves are put at risk? And further, will she have greater cooperation with the Netherlands too, now that there is an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e756	At an earlier stage, the government entered into cooperation with the Netherlands and opened it in the case of CCS, early in the previous period. The Netherlands actually ended its bet at that time, and we'll see if it's taking up a new bet related to it. We have now reached a stage where we are working on completed projects towards Christmas/early January. There are funds to keep the hot organization in this, as it is in the budget. Then we have to work on the results of the concept studies, go through and see how this is going to be phased in, and just then choose if we're going to have one or three. So we have to take into account the cost this will have in the years to come. We can all be for something when we don't see the bill, but when we see the bill, we also have to start discussing whether this is the right thing to do. Is that what gives the most effect? Is this the one that has the most climate impact in the future? We must do that for all measures when they come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e766	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e780	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and in this context the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e796	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘Since the winner of the competition for the government quarter has been selected, the project has again met with a lot of criticism, among others. from the City Council of Oslo and several city councillors. This is about massive building volume on small areas - which has been a theme since the ideas came in 2015. In previous discussions in the United Kingdom and in the media, the Council of State has been open to continued use of R5 and R6 in Akersgata, which houses eight departments, to reduce building volume. When will the Council of State decide on this, and how will the Grand Government be involved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e811	As the representative Bøhler points out, the scope of the new government quarter was discussed when the ideas came in 2015. The project's new government quarter was then significantly reduced by reducing the land standard from 25 m 2 to 23 m2 gross per employee. This means that 9 000 square meters can be built less than what appeared in the idea sketches. This also makes sense from a climate and environmental perspective. The Oslo City Council supported the main actions of the proposal for a regulatory plan, with the majority of new settlements being placed between Grubbegata and Møllergata, where transparency and accessibility are important leading premises. At the same time, the City Council pointed out that the area was under pressure and that the space programme should be reduced. In the first half of 2018, the government will take a position on how to plan the project further towards the completed pre-project and quality assurance – KS2. In the context of the 2019 budget, we will describe the choices that form the basis for further planning. Then, probably in the second half of 2019, proposals are made for the Stortinget to launch the project with proposals for start-up, propulsion, allocation, etc. Towards summer 2018, a number of themes will be analysed. We have in Prop. 1 S for 2016-2017 briefed that R6 is not to be included in a new government quarter – for safety reasons. However, we want to place some of the government quarter functions in R5, i.e. government building west of Akersgaten. What functions and scope of these must we come back to. Furthermore, we add up to step by step the development of a new government quarter. It is therefore necessary to clarify which buildings are to be built in the first stage of construction and which departments are to enter these buildings. Some have suggested that the new government quarter be scaled down by not moving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the Victoria terrace. The Government bases its planning on the fact that the Prime Minister's office and all departments — except the Ministry of Defence — will enter the new government quarter. A number of points speak for a collection of departments, including: economics, improved efficiency and interaction, flexibility, more representative urban environment and fewer closed streets. The Council of the Police Directorate states that we should ensure an overall government quarterly rather than ensuring more individual departments located around the city. The discussion on Victoria terrace started in 2009. Then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs planned to move to new premises by building on the western railway site. By 2018, the Ministry will assess both the scope and the rate of expansion of the new government quarter. This includes the functions that can be added to R5.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e835	I thank you for your answer. I would like to stress that the construction of a new government quarter is about the largest national construction project at least for 10 years to come, and about national symbols of great importance both for the city and for the country, and it should be broadly anchored in the Stortinget and in the opinion. I was very pleased with the rounds we had in 2015, about what could be assessed in terms of reducing the building volume. The Council of State concluded, as he also said to the evening post on December 18, when it came to the use of the buildings called R5 and R6 that there was a good basis for moving forward with this. My concern is that since then I have not seen any further feedback about it. I noticed that after the coup d'état of the winner, the Council of State repeated that it was flexible in terms of building volume. My question is: doesn't the Council of State think it's time for those involved in design and planning to know more about the size of the building volume than to wait until 2019 with final decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e844	This is, as the representative Bøhler says, a big project, and it's in the heart of Oslo. That is why we are committed to a good anchoring through a good dialogue with the Oslo City Council and the City Council, and they have given their support to the main actions of the regulatory plan. We also regularly orientate the Stortinget, among others. by means of the budgetary proposals. So it's right as the representative says, that we had a good discussion about this in 2015, and after that the project was scaled down by going from 25 m 2 to 23 m2. We informed already in December 2015, and so on in the 2017 budget proposal, that it was not relevant to go further with R6 – and for security reasons. But we're still going to evaluate how we can use R5. We believe that it should be possible to use it for government functions. It will also be considered a step by step development, so that we have the flexibility that we have been constantly alerting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e854	I thank you for the additional reply. It is clear that 9 000 m2 is a rather insignificant downscaling of a project on – I think it is – 144 000 m2, which it is about now. But if you keep five departments that are in R5 today, that's going to be a big change in the building volume. So I think when you're doing architectural competitions, you're doing design, you're going into these stages, you need to make the decision on the use of R5. The Council of State refers to a good process with the City Council in Oslo, etc. I noticed that the town councillor in the evening post commented on the winner of the architectural competition, he called the project a desert and used quite strong words that the city council wanted, among other things. further use of the OD. I have seen a number of editorial articles in various newspapers — several representatives of big business, former prime minister and former foreign ministers have taken up the debate. In those contexts, the Council of State refers only to safety reasons. My question is: isn't there a need to think about whether the security reasons are going to be as much of a public debate as the Council of State seems to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e863	Now, the public debate is probably somewhat more nuanced than the representative of Bohemia. I also want to say that I am pleased with the involvement of Bohemia in this matter, and that the representative on several occasions has taken it to open discussion in Stortinget – I think that is very important. Just because the new government quarter is going to be open, it's going to be inclusive, it's going to be part of the city center, it's important to focus on different considerations. And there are different reasons why both the previous government and the current government have focused on collecting the ministries. It is also about efficiency in government work. It's about avoiding closed streets and securing many buildings around Oslo, which is also part of how to open the city more. So it's a total assessment. But when we make the decisions, it has to be based on the facts, and that means that when the final decision on R5 is to be made, it has to be fact-based, and then we have to know that this is also safe, otherwise I am absolutely sure that there will be new rounds about it in the Stortinget as well. But I look forward to further discussion and openness around the development of the new government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e871	‘There is a broad consensus on the use of tax money to stimulate innovation, but State aid should not distort competition. Under EEA State aid rules, investments are to be made under market conditions. Innovation Norway granted Moods of Norway a 5 million risk loan. in February, after several years of deficit. They did not receive any more loans from the bank, and there was considerable uncertainty as to whether the business would be profitable again. Does the Council of State mean that we should spend public tax money on such, perhaps illegal, risk loans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e878	Stortingsrepresentative Grung asks questions about a loan Innovation Norway gave to the company Moods of Norway in February this year. The loan was five million. kr and was granted under the district risk loan scheme. This is a loan scheme managed by Innovation Norway on behalf of individual municipalities, in this case Sogn and Fjordane. The objectives and premises of the scheme are referred to in the annual budget proposals of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, which state that regional risk loans are to contribute to ‘a value-creating business in areas of scattered residence and large distances’. Loans ‘can be provided for the top-level financing of estimated profitable investment and development projects which are difficult to finance in the private credit market. Loans may be granted both to start-ups and to established enterprises’. I manage as well-known state ownership in Innovation Norway. The Storting representative, Grung, explains his question that: ‘In accordance with EEA State aid rules, investments shall be made under market conditions’. I agree with Mr Grung that this is a fundamental principle, but at the same time the State aid rules provide for a number of exceptions to this general rule. It is these exceptions that allow many grant and loan schemes to target districts, SMEs, sustainability, research and innovation. These are well-founded exceptions that create values for society. Therefore, many of Norway’s Innovation loans are granted on other terms than the loans of purely commercial operators. This is also the basis for the appropriations adopted by the Stortinget for the company and in the government's proposals for the State budget. Compliance with the State aid rules is something that the Ministry stresses in the dialogue with the company, and I perceive that the company also has a lot of attention in its work. District-based risk loans have been notified to ESA and are anchored in the regional aid exemptions. Innovation Norway makes independent assessments and decisions in individual cases, based on the assignments and leadership given to it. No aid shall, of course, be granted in breach of State aid rules. In the case of Innovation Norway's sponsors, i.e. the state and state, we mainly follow up our purpose with the company through our annual reports and evaluations of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e899	Thanks for the answer. As I see it, there is a difficult balance between giving risk loans and at the same time having widely accepted the population about how we manage public funds, not least tax money. I think it is important to have a public debate. After I sent over the question, there was also an answer from Innovation Norway, which I think is positive. Is it the case that there are different conditions relating to risk loans in districts than elsewhere? Are they fulfilled? A postdoctoral doctorate from the Bergen Faculty of Law also asks whether this is in accordance with the EEA rules. The Minister refers to the fact that it has been lifted on a general basis. Is it so that the Minister will check whether this is happening on a case-by-case basis, where questions have been asked, for example: on this allocation? It turns out that shortly after that there was actually no basis for profitability, and the company went bankrupt – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e908	I really don't have any trouble having a public debate on this, I understand that very well when there's a loan of five million. kr, and a few months after the company goes bankrupt. However, we must then assume that Innovation Norway has made a concrete assessment, seen as a potential for the enterprise. It is not that a company is losing out, preventing the company from getting a risk loan. However, Innovation Norway should make a professional assessment of the underlying potential. I don't know what assessments have been made there. Innovation Norway should and must take these assessments itself and be in the position to take the decisions it makes. That is why I think it is good that they respond to these decisions. As far as our follow-up is concerned, it can be based on individual events, individual companies and a reference in the newspaper. We can, of course, ask questions, but our main follow-up takes place through ownership dialogue where we ensure that Innovation Norway reaches its goals. There is a difference between risk loans in districts and central banks. And it's reported to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e915	Thank you for the Minister's reply. Another issue that has emerged in the wake of the aid is that owners have established company structures where they have made significant dividends. How does the Minister address this issue, by the fact that companies that have gone well for a long time – and it is good that they are making money – make dividends in their own companies, and then apply for loans to what is left of the business?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e922	Here I rely on the law that we have, which is quite thorough and good in terms of bankruptcies. Then, of course, the creditors of a company are going through how the rules for this have been complied with. There are very clear rules on how to deal with a living, given that for example. is insolvent. I expect that the bankruptcy review will be clearer about what has been done is done in a legal and correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e931	‘The world over is organised Equal Pay Day to mark the global injustice that women earn less than men. The UNIO is marking the Equal Pay Day today, 18 October, as a symbol that their members from this date onwards and out of the year work ‘free’ if they compare with the man-dominated groups of equal education. What concrete action has the current government taken to ensure that the pay and income gap between men and women is close, in addition to referring to the social partners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e938	The fundamental principle that women and men in the same activity should have equal pay for the same work or work of equal value is enshrined in Section 21 of the Gender Equality Act. In 2016, the average monthly salary for full-time women was almost 88 pst. by the level of men's wages and salaries. The main reason for the difference in pay is that women and men work in different sectors, enterprises, professions and jobs. Women dominate in the public sector, while men work more in the private sector. The level of employment of those with higher education is higher in the private sector than in the public sector. When we correct for the profession, industry, sector and length of education, the pay gap between men and women is halved. Compared to other countries, female participation in employment is particularly high. This must be seen in the context of a broadly based family policy, which facilitates the combination of work and care tasks and the increasing education of women. There are now more women than men taking higher education. When we know that those with high education work more full-time, we can assume that the convergence between men and women continues. A new report from the Statistical Centre shows that working mothers are approaching the working hours of fathers. A proposal to strengthen the provision of the Working Environment Act on the right of priority for part-time employees to an extended position rather than new jobs was sent to the consultation this summer, with the consultation deadline of 31 October this year. The aim of the proposal is to reduce the use of involuntary part-time and thus to ensure, in particular, a more stable relationship with the labour market, which in turn will have an impact on wages and salaries. Equalisation of pay differentials between women and men will be more rapid if women and men choose more education and later occupations across the traditional gender-based labour market in Norway. Further wealth growth depends on a well-functioning labour market with a high degree of adaptability. The government is responsible for ensuring that laws and regulations facilitate such flexibility in the labour market. But I would like to make it clear that the social partners are responsible for the formation of wages and salaries. TBU and the Government Contact Committee are key meeting points to build a common understanding of key challenges for the Norwegian economy. The principles of equal pay for work of equal value are established. And both the parties and the government are concerned that wage-fixing continues. But the causes of the inequality are complex, and knowledge is important. In TBU, wage trends for women and men are closely monitored. During the previous ageing period, the government set up a working group of the Employment and Pension Policy Councils to deal specifically with gender equality issues, including: through various research projects. The government supports, among other things: the ‘Women and Technology’ programme, the aim of which is to increase the share of girls in technology at all levels of the education system. Women's participation in the labour market and education are approaching men. As underlined, inter alia: in the government’s perspective communication, it is important that these developments continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e959	We are still in a situation where equal pay has barely improved over very many years. It's moving forward, but it's going too slow. The Council of State is right in that if we equalise for sector or working time, it is somewhat more similar. But we can do it, for example. include financial income and the fact that men still own most of the properties in Norway. When the government chooses to give large tax cuts to those who own many shares, it increases the income gap in society. I thank you for the answer to what the government has done about action now, but I would also like to ask a follow-up question: What new action will the government take in the future – in addition to referring to the social partners – to ensure better equality between men and women in terms of both pay and income?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e968	It is important to stress the responsibility of the parties for the formation of wages and salaries in Norway. It's a little difficult to imagine how to intervene in the formation of wages. There are priorities that the parties make in the various sectors. We do a lot. As I said, we have now had a proposal on the right of priority for full-time, that once you have had a part-time job, you can have a right of preference for posts that are published. We support several projects to contribute to more untraditional choices. I mentioned girls and technology. I could also mention ‘Human in Health’. We have changed the working time rules in the Working Environment Act, precisely to contribute to increased flexibility for workers. We have also started several projects and set up working groups in different departments, just to look at how gender differences affect. We also have high levels of competence in the sectors and sectors where women dominate, because we know that skills can also affect wages. If you go from a part-time job to a whole job, you get better access to skills. Competence also contributes to increased wages and salaries. We see that evolution is moving in the right direction. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e977	Nicholas Wilkinson, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e982	I have to say, now I'm a little disappointed. What I asked about was what the government would do now, in addition to referring to the social partners – and we got to list the same grips that the Council of State sprang off in its first post. What I'm asking is, what new grip will the government do for equality? Let me start in a very important field for us in SV – as a good suggestion for where the government can start. Yes, there is some grip on the priority of full-time. That might be good. But we have a lot of problems. I'm about to meet Madeleine. She's a health worker, she only has 19 pst. job and want to work more, but do not get the opportunity. We know that 40 pst. of women working part-time, against 16.8 pst. of men. We also know – as the Council of State says – that there are often major problems in the public sector. Will the government join forces with SV to ensure a full-time right-holding, so that we can get more in the full-time position, especially in the health and care sector, but also in the rest of the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e989	Our common well-being depends on more jobs. Unfortunately, a little too many jobs are part-time on a voluntary basis. Our task, of course, is to remove all the fences that prevent involuntary part-time. Let's do that – among other things. with the proposals which have been consulted. The hearing period has not yet expired, so we will return to the follow-up to the hearing opinions. But the main challenge today is that too many work part-time on a voluntary basis. It's important that we remove the fences that keep people outside. We're doing more things now. Among other things – as I said – we have started several projects under several departments. There is work going on now, which of course will be followed up when the work is completed during the year. We have the skills enhancement that we have now started in important women-dominated sectors – in the teaching profession, in the kindergarten profession. The Competence plus scheme is important precisely in order to enhance the competence of those who are unskilled. We know that skills can lead to higher wages for those who currently have low skills and small job breaks.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e999	‘Norwegian newspapers are already in a difficult situation with failed advertising revenue and circulation. Why does the government choose to make the situation even more difficult by cutting production aid, which too many editorials are necessary for further operation and for the digital transition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1006	First of all, I would like to congratulate the representative Gharakhani on his place in Stortinget, and not least on being a member of the important Committee on Family and Cultural Affairs. I hope for good cooperation and many interesting debates, not least on media policy in the future. Free independent media is part of democracy's infrastructure. The government believes that one of the most important things we can do to help the media through a demanding transition phase is to stimulate the necessary innovation and innovation. There is a need to make changes to current media support. The government has already taken important steps to modernise the media policy instrument. We have introduced VAT exemptions for electronic news media. In itself, there may be an indirect increase in media support of about 450 million. kr in 2017, i.e. significantly more than the press support itself provides. To next year, the value will probably rise. The government announced in the Sundvolden statement that the press support would be changed over time, and the level would be reduced. Therefore, as a follow-up to our declaration, we propose a cut in direct aid of 18.5 million. kr. We know that the totality of press support today is about 8 billion. kr. Media support shall facilitate the diversity of newspapers. Nevertheless, five newspapers receive more than half of the production grant for news and news media. The government believes it is time that we take a thorough review of how the grants are used and distributed, in order to ensure a good media diversity for the future as well. That is why we are going to discuss this carefully in the big message that we are going to present to the Stortinget. We consider twisting a larger part of media support against innovation, towards development, and we have taken a first step on the way through the proposal for next year's government budget, where we have established a new innovation-driven local government grant scheme. After years of downsizing, a pressed media industry is not saved only by maintaining the level of production subsidies, where more than half of the funds go to a few newspapers. Instead, the Norwegian media industry needs media support that is being developed and modified as a result of a change in media world. Therefore, we must contribute to innovation and innovation so that the media can find sustainable business models in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1021	I believe the Minister of Culture must listen. The Minister lacks insight into the challenges of Media Norway. Her argument is that cut contributes to innovation. Well, press cut means less innovation. In a short time, 1,000 journalists have disappeared from the editorial work. Google and Facebook have eaten almost 3 billion. of the advertising revenue. In concrete terms, the government's cut means that 30–40 new journalists disappear from the editorial work. Media diversity is an important part of our democracy. The Minister for Culture is responsible for media policy. It is to contribute to more media pluralism, not less. The Minister for Culture has also designed the cut-off proposals so that it is the big, meaningful newspapers that are hit most, i.e. those that are the most quoted. My question is whether we see a new media policy from the Minister of Culture – not a best friend strategy, but an unfriend strategy, where the media houses that disagree most with the Right get the biggest cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1028	I agree with the representative that it is our job to ensure a free and independent press. Free and independent media are part of the infrastructure of democracy. Although media pluralism points to self-financing, it is also an important task for us politicians to ensure this independence. I believe that today’s support – the press support that was established at the end of the 1960s – does not provide the media with a sustainable business model, which ensures media pluralism across the country and ensures the transition to the digital platforms. We see that the most important thing, as many people point to right now, because digital subscriptions are being increased rather than paper paper- paper- paper- paper-bonnettes, is the introduction of the zero-moms, as the Workers' Party said, was very difficult, but as this government introduced, which now provides indirect support, is an increase of about 450 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1033	The working party has stood in front of the zero-mom. The right was one of the last to get on the track. I also hear the Minister for Culture saying that she is protecting localities, but I suspect that the Minister for Culture does not want a public debate that the production aid has stood still for several years with the Right and the Advance Party, and has repeatedly been proposed cut in. Let me use a concrete example from my beautiful county, Buskerud, which I know well about the Minister of Culture, and the Eikerbladet: From 2013 to 2016, advertising revenue has fallen by 2.5 million. kr. They've done a lot of cost cuts. During the same period, the press support has only increased by NOK 4000. So my question to the Council of State is, how does the Minister of Culture think she's protecting local newspapers, when the smallest newspapers get really cut because their support isn't adjusted for price and salary growth over several years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1042	I have to inform the representative that in fact some of the last working party said before they left the government offices four years ago – luckily it starts to be a long time ago – that it was impossible to do anything about introducing the zero VAT. So this government – despite what the Labour Party has said – has put it in place, and a lot of newspapers now claim that it is the most important contribution to creating more innovation and ensuring that several subscribers switch to digital. Then there is no secret that we have been concerned about changing the device of the production grant, because we believe it does not ensure a good enough and wide enough media diversity. That is why we are now in the process of a big message, which we are going to present to the Stortinget, where we are working on solutions that ensure that the press and a media industry that are in a very demanding transition phase get the tools they need to secure a free and open press in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1052	This question, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Integration, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1057	‘The Ministry of Justice and Defence has initiated and funded a campaign to prevent refugees and migrants from taking advantage of travel. The campaign shows a doctor who says to a person that the hospital staff will refuse treatment because he is missing a document. Will the Council of State take a clear distance from the contents of this information service, and what does the government do to correct the image created by the ruthless Norwegian body that refuses patients health care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1064	Over the years, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has financed information measures aimed at potential migrants without any need for protection. This is about taking responsibility in a situation where very many migrants are making a risky trip to Europe on a failed basis. We know how dangerous such a journey is. Many are subjected to assault, exploitation or kidnapping. According to international organisations, the situation of migrants in Libya is now appalling. Many travel without knowing this risk. Smugglers misinform and paint a pinkish-red picture of what awaits in Europe. It is therefore important to disseminate realistic information on the risks of travel and life as migrants in Europe. Information measures are targeted primarily at potential migrants, not refugees. But refugees also need information about the risks of travelling, and I am sure that most people themselves will balance the risk of staying home, seek protection in a country in the region and travel to Europe. In 2014, an information campaign was launched in Somalia, which was funded by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The aim was to provide such realistic information to potential migrants. The comic book representative Toppe refers to was part of this campaign. This shows that the main person does not receive health care after getting sick in response to the Norwegian cold climate. This is not about merciless doctors, but reflects Norwegian legislation. The reality of being illegal in Norway is that a person does not have equal rights to health care in line with the population otherwise. This includes, for example: the absence of access to health care for general health problems, as referred to in the comic book. This is the message in the comic book, and there is no reason to correct this picture – rather the opposite. It is important that this information is made clear, so that, among other things. Somalis without a need for protection who consider leaving home get a realistic picture of their lives in Norway and in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1079	I disagree with the government that this comic book deals with people seeking help for general health issues. Most people look at this comic book in a different way. the Medical Association has reacted strongly to this presentation, and they have written letters to the Ministry of Justice and Defence that they believe that the presentation of the doctor who refused treatment to the patient is very unfortunate as information from public authorities. It breaks the values and policies of the Medical Association and can lead to a breach of the trust of all patients to a doctor. So they're asking for a correction of the picture that's now being created. Are the councils disagreed with the Legeforening? And won't the department correct the created image?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1086	As I have explained, the Ministry believes that this is simply a description of what is the law in Norway. If you are illegally staying in Norway, you do not have the same health rights as you do if you are legally staying here. That is why we believe that there is no reason to correct this, nor are we going to take the initiative. Then, of course, we will send a written reply to the Medical Association, where we also explain this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1093	It is true that it is not the same legislation, but we have a regulation in Norway for health care for people without permanent residence in the kingdom. Health is, of course, a fundamental human right enshrined in international conventions. The regulation on the right to health care services in Norway states that everyone has the right to circumvention of health care, to health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot be expected, to necessary health care before and after birth and abortion and to infectious diseases. Children have also extended dishes. They have the right to the necessary health and care services from both the municipal and specialist health services. When the Council of State refers to health as a single procedure, it makes it so that it does not have a document in Norway, it does not receive health care. This should be corrected, and I'd like to ask again whether the council sees that a should nuance the picture and the production that has been created in this comic book.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1100	In the case of this comic book, there were general health problems related to a cold. Then you have no rights to get help. Then it is quite right, as the representative points out, that there is legislation under the Ministry of Health which clarifies the time when health care is required in case of illegal residence in Norway. This was last revised and made clear in 2011. That was when the representative Toppe's party put into government, and I would therefore believe that she also supports the legislation on which it is based today. But as I said, we believe that there is no basis for correction, simply because the case mentioned in this comic book does not include the rights referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1112	‘According to Budstikka on 10 October 2017, Asker and Bærum are medically aware that the police response time at the weekends has become worse after the merger of the police districts, and that the medical officer has had to hire sentinels on weekends to ensure the safety of patients and employees. What does the Council of State think is the relationship between the lack of police preparedness and police reform, and what has the Council of State intended to do in this matter to ensure that the police’s ability to provide security is not impaired?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1119	First, I would like to inform you that I have replied to a similar question in writing to Mr. Elisabeth Fanghol. As far as the situation at Asker and Bærum medical care is concerned, I would like to make it clear that it is the police chief's responsibility to solve the community mission within the applicable framework conditions at all times. The task of the police includes a number of tasks, a number of tasks, and good judgment on priorities is therefore important. The police directorate has obtained information from the police chief in Oslo, who reports that there have been 22 calls in connection with Asker and Bærum medical guard and Bærum hospital in the period 26 April–12. October of this year. None of these were registered as urgent tasks. I have been informed that a meeting has been agreed between the police and the medical officer in Asker and Bærum, where discussions will be held on how to create the best possible range of police services, among others. The toy guard. From the government in 2013, there have been 2,137 more annual police work. About 1,200 of these are police service women and men. This shows that a major and demanding reform period has not gone at the expense of police preparedness. At the same time, the close police reform provides a basis for a reduced response time through the establishment of larger and more robust police districts, operational centres and a strong recruitment process. In particular, the focus is on reducing the response time to the tasks of life and health at risk. Measurements show that the police on these missions mainly meet the targets set for 2017. Finally, I would like to stress that one of the main priorities of the government is to secure the population, to ensure security in society – something that we, among other things, do. has done through what is a historical bet on the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1132	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, I have to record again that the Council of State contributes with self-confidence, while problems that are described are pushed down into the system. It is the Council of State who has overall responsibility for the Norwegian police. It is true that there has been an increase in the number of police posts, but it is above all the central bureaucracy that has increased. What has unfortunately happened in this period is that the police's ability to act in everyday life has been reduced. In 2013, the party went to the elections to drop the POD, but in four years the number of employees has almost doubled. So to the specific matter. In Budstikka, the head of the police operating centre in Oslo, Runar Skarnes, says that this is the situation in Oslo as well, and the police reform is about equal offers throughout the district. Do the councils agree? Should people in Asker and Bærum expect that one will still have to hire weights in the future, or can the Council of State guarantee that the local police will be strengthened, so that one will not hire weights in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1139	As I just explained in my main response, it is – and has been – a historical bet on the Norwegian police. When you look at the efforts that have been made, Oslo police districts in particular have come out of it well. Some of the highest police density in this country, we're just finding it in the Oslo police district. They have a coverage rate of 2.4 per 1 000, which is significantly above the national average, which has a target of 2 per 1 000, but which is currently, with the increase that has occurred, has gone up to 1.83 per 1 000. So that's a good development. Oslo police districts have come out of it well, and it will continue to be visible through the force of the police also in Asker and Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1144	I ask again about the specific situation that people in Asker and Bærum experience. They feel that the investigation environment has been weakened, that the arrest has been closed, that the management of the new police district is both in and out of Oslo, and that one has had a dramatic fall in the number of attacks in the period after the reorganisation that has taken place. In May 2016 there were 112 attacks in Asker and Bærum. In May 2017, it was 32. My question is, when can people in Asker and Bærum expect an increased presence of the police, more patrols and more attacks than it's ever been?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1151	It is important for me to stress that when the police are in a reform, as they are doing now, it is demanding in the transition that all the increased police force is not as visible. It's a temporary phase while you're in the workforce, and then this will gradually become more and more visible. It is not right, as the representative has claimed, that the increase in the number of police posts has gone to bureaucracy – it is directly wrong. In the current year, when we've increased by about 500 new year's work in the police — and there's going to be even more when we get to the end of the year — the police districts are the only one and only priority. The police directorate, to which this representative and others refer, have a rather marginal percentage of police officers, about 50 is the correct figure, so I ask that the description of the situation at least stick to the realities and not describe something that is not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1161	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The Nynazist organisation The Nordic resistance movement has recently increased its activity, for example in Eastfold. [[NMB]] The NMB encourages the persecution of ethnic minorities and the LHBT population. This leads to fear. The members of the organisation have also committed violence in Sweden. What measures have the police taken to counter the neo-Nazist organisation, both in general in the country and in specific Eastern police districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1170	First of all, I would like to thank you for a question about a serious issue. Radical groups that create insecurity in words and actions are a very serious topic and must be combated. Although the problem in Norway at present does not appear to be smaller than in several other countries, it is important that we address the problems before they continue to grow and grow. This is the basis for the work of the Police Security Service in this area, the work of several of our police districts, on the part of the government, through the action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism and in the municipalities through a series of follow-up actions to people at risk of being caught by these types of groups. In the fight against right-wing extremism, police districts use all appropriate tools at their disposal, both in terms of prevention and in terms of criminal proceedings. Persons concerned about the right-wing environment are initially followed up by dialogue, clarification and follow-up. For example, in Rome, it seems that this has had a good, positive effect. The police also implement the necessary preventive and preparedness measures related to activities such as: right-wing extreme demonstrations, other activities which may lead to crime and corruption of order or which encourage crime. It is known, for example, that members of the Nordic Resistance Movement, NMB, in Norway have been reported for illegal demonstration. The ordinary police are also assisting the PST in their actions against far-right actors. According to the Police Directorate, every form of extremism is constantly being prevented in East police districts. East police districts have good cooperation with municipalities, county councils and other state agencies and non-governmental organisations. The Government's action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism is a guide to work. Several municipalities have also created their own action plans on the theme. Extremism is also a theme of most police councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1181	I thank you for your answer. I want to use the opportunity to give a description of the organisation we are now talking about. This is an declared national socialist organization that honors Adolf Hitler as a hero, and which believes that both the so-called homolobby and the so-called Jewish elite will be crushed. Their own programme says that foreign and domestic media acting hostile to the people should be banned and that a national court should be established to prosecute serious acts of treason. The undersigned himself has been referred to as a traitor to the people on their websites. It's not about opinions that we don't like, but about opinions that lay the basis for harming people. It's a romance of violence and a call for persecution. They have carried out a number of activities. In my own state they have had markings in several cities. Sometimes the police have allowed it, but in one case it was banned by the police. My question is: how consistent is police work in this field, and what action is being taken specifically to prevent this group from being organised?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1190	I can assure the representative that the follow-up of this group has been most seriously taken. As I just pointed out in my main post, the police security service has this high on its list. Then we also have to assume that the PST assessment is that, after all, it is unlikely that the right-wing extreme will carry out a terrorist action in Norway in the current year. High-recirculation in Norway is still characterised as unorganised, loosely linked networks. I agree with the representative that these are serious attitudes that need to be taken seriously, and then it is a concern that we see a development for growth and better organisation. We have to take that seriously. That is what is done, and I can assure the representative that it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1195	This group has applied for a demonstration under the slogan ‘Knus homolobby’ and was authorised to do so. Then it was withdrawn because the police were afraid that the counter-monstrants would make trouble. The demonstration was held in Kristiansand instead of in Fredrikstad, in my county. They had a marking on election day outside my own election venue in Sarpsborg. They've tried to lock up an election room in Arendal. They made a mark in Fredrikstad by 23 September, it was allowed by the police. They made a mark in Halden at the beginning of the summer, when I met them myself. They were removed by the police, and they then moved to Sarpsborg, where they were allowed to mark a mark. My question is: when, in the 1990s and early 2000s, a number of measures and programmes were put in place to combat neo-Nazist organisation, we saw it working. Then it was very necessary because these organizations committed violence. Now we see an increasing activity in these environments again. Can we wait until they commit violence before we see targeted programmes and actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1202	No, no, no. That's my clear answer. We have to deal with this at the current stage. We must prevent growth. We have to prevent a development where you see an increase in recruitment, as we have seen in a number of other countries around us. We have seen a very worrying development in Sweden with the same organisation. Fortunately, this is not the case in Norway today as we see in our neighbouring country Sweden. That is why it is important that we take early action, as we do, that we follow up through the Police Security Service and the ordinary police measures, but also that the action plan introduces good preventive measures that prevent the development of extremism. So this has to follow many tracks, and no single track alone solves the problem. But we're aware of that. We are introducing measures, and we should not allow this to develop in a negative direction with increased recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1210	‘In the election campaign, the Right decorated itself with promises of a reform of labour skills. It is necessary and the Labour Party has proposed a comprehensive reform of labour skills. But as far as I can see, there is no money put aside for any competence reform in the state budget for 2018. All I find is 25 million to a career guidance website. Is there a reform of the competences of the Right only on the Internet and not in the budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1217	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that the Labour Party has again begun to talk about competence in the workplace. The Council of State for which I am the Constitutional Council said when he entered in 2013, that he had to blow dust from the policy of competence after eight years of red-green government. So let me start by saying a little bit about what the government has already done, and which are important steps that prepare the basis for the very reform of competence. Last year, the government issued a big message on lifelong learning and exclusion, in cooperation between the departments responsible for knowledge, working life and integration. The aim is for individuals to acquire skills and basic skills that can provide a stable and sustainable job. There is no quick-fix solution to this, but I want to describe some of the main measures we are taking. In 28 adult training centres in 10 counties, they sample a new scheme to enable shorter modules to be trained. Each module counts separately but is also a step on the way to full primary education. Similarly, from autumn seven county municipalities are testing modular training in eight upper secondary schools. Technology and digitisation require continuous development of labour skills. Through Competence plus, we provide financial support for more adults to acquire the necessary skills to master demands and change in their working life. That's why this is an item to which this government has increased funds, from 86 million. SEK in 2013 to SEK 150 million. kr in the 2018 budget. There is a significant strengthening and a good illustration of an offer made by the labour market and the authorities on how to empower employees. Let me clarify a misunderstanding in what the representative Christensen refers to as ‘a website on career guidance’. In Norway, we have not had a comprehensive career guidance system aimed at adults. At the same time, we know that good career guidance can help people through life to acquire the relevant competences that society needs. This applies to students seeking advice on further education, but it also applies to their 40-year-old neighbour who are at risk of the job being lost or automated. The government proposes to further develop the educational.no website to provide information to the adult population as well. In addition, the initiative involves the development of a chat function where those who need advice and guidance in order to make good choices in their careers and education can come into contact with professional career guidance staff. This applies regardless of whether it is students, their advisers, parents, adults or Nav staff who need this guidance. The idea is that we should draw on the skills of employees at career centres throughout the country, building on existing professional skills, while reaching a much larger group than today. I notice that several parties, including the Workers' Party, are now speaking hotly for a competence reform. I'm glad, and I think we can work together on this in Stortinget, even if someone is in opposition and someone is in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1232	I would have hoped that too. The Labour Party is not against the Internet, but we do not believe it is possible to ‘challenge’ itself to a reform of labour skills. That's why we also had over 50 million. to specific projects where it was most important. In Hordaland and Rogaland, we wanted to carry out specific competence projects in sectors such as care and construction. It was important and urgent there and then for real people in real work. What is missing in the Right’s bet is an overall priority – to raise those who are at work now. I saw nothing else through the election campaign but that this competence reform was mentioned. But when the budget comes, it doesn't exist. Then I have to ask: how will a website make a concrete contribution to improving the skills of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1243	Let me start by saying that this offer is to "chat" to competence, I think it's a very special way to talk about it, just that we're making sure that people around the country can get a lot of the advice they've been asking for for a long time. The discussions I meet at regular intervals are that we need more advisors here and there. Well, today's technology also makes it possible to have the advice centralised, with good competence to provide help. So four years ago, we joined the government and were re-elected four years ago. And as I said in my answer, this is not a quick fix that you solve in one budget. We're going to have to work on this, not only in the years that come, but in the decades that come. It's going to be one of the big tests on whether people get to be part of the working life. Let me mention that the education sector needs to be reformed for a new situation where people are also going to have education throughout their lives. I have mentioned Competence plus, which is a very important offer to give skills to those who are already in work – with almost a double from when the red-greens crashed. We have four more years where we are going to come up with a lot of measures in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1252	I fully agree with the Council of State that this is a long-term work, but with all the long-term projects we have to start somewhere. That is why the Workers' Party started with a 50 million grant. to concrete measures to raise the level of competence in Hordaland and Rogaland for construction and health and care. That is something I do not understand: when you have referred to a reform of competence as a major project, which is a concept that exists, I find it strange that it is not mentioned in the budget that now exists, that there are no long-term plans for it, that it is just the advisory website. It's probably all right, but I'm asking for the concrete, long-term plans that I'd like to discuss with the Council here. But right now there's not so much on the table to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1259	I very much agree with the representative Christensen that you have to start somewhere. We started four years ago, and I record that the Workers' Party believes that they started when they brought crisis packages two years later. I believe that the very fact that this is such a large area – which includes many departments, many sectors of our society – makes it something we need to work on continuously. When it comes to competence reform, my party, Right, has made clear promises in this election campaign, and we have given very concrete answers to what we want to do. An example drawn by the Prime Minister in the election campaign was CompetenceFUNN, that companies can be deducted from the tax by investing in the skills of their employees. That's one of the answers, because we see that too many companies don't necessarily pay to increase the skills of employees, even if it pays off for society, so we have to find ways where employers also choose to prioritize it. We have very many such proposals, and I can guarantee the representative Christensen that they will come in rich monn from the government also in the next four years, as they did in the previous ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1272	‘The project ‘Watching for children — Quality in kindergarten for children under 3 years’ revealed considerable differences in quality between kindergartens. The Minister of Knowledge stated to the NRK on 10 October that the ‘Barnehage sector has been characterised by capacity building. The quality has come a little under the shadow of it.» In what way does the Council of State consider that capacity has been built in kindergartens in the years 2013 to 2017?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1279	Let me just start quickly by saying that it was first of all a rather discouraging report, which we have to take the most seriously. My comment was actually – and it is a bit of praise also to the representative Henriksen’s party – that we carried out a large child’s hail at the beginning of the 2000s, which meant that the capacity was massively built up. It was an important welfare reform, which also led to more freedom of choice for very many families, and for which the representative Henriksen's party in his years of government is to have part of the honour. But the question from Henriksen's representative is very specific, and I'm going to answer very specifically. Over the period 2013–2017, the government has been committed to facilitating more flexible admission into kindergartens and providing more children with the right to space in kindergartens. In the State budget for 2015 and 2016, the government granted 740 million. SEK to establish 3400 more kindergartens. The aim of the increase in appropriations was to facilitate more flexible recording solutions in municipalities. During the same period, this increase in appropriations was used to extend the right to children's gardening, so that children were born in September, October or November now have the right to take place from the month they reach the age of one year. In order not to hinder the economy from child care participation for part of these groups, the government, together with the cooperative parties, has introduced two national moderation schemes for low-income families. In total, we've committed over 500 million. SEK to those schemes in the period 2013-2017. These appropriations also include several sites to meet increased demand due to lower prices. Overall, I believe this shows a significant investment in capacity between 2013 and 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1292	The question is whether the capacity corresponds to what you need, and whether you make sure that the money that goes to kindergarten actually goes to better quality. I believe the fasitite after four years now is quite long queues in kindergarten, higher prices and a delayed schedule for pedagogical density in kindergartens. What the Minister of Knowledge has highlighted as a major investment in this budget, money for more kindergarten teachers, is that in practice the families themselves pay through higher kindergarten prices. So in terms of the standard, the Ministry of Knowledge says it's met on average. But does it really help the children's hats in Drammen, who have 6.2 children per adult, or the kindergartens in Us, who have 6.5 children per adult, that the standard of manning is met in Oslo, Ringsaker or Hammerfest? There will be no more time for the children in the kindergarten who have on average too many children, because other kindergartens have fewer. So my question is, does the Minister of Knowledge think that a standard of manning that does not guarantee all children the same right to a good adulthood is a good enough norm?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1299	Let me start by saying a little bit about the quality promise, because that's something that we've also spent a lot of money on in the last period, and that's something we want to keep doing. A new framework plan has now been implemented in kindergartens, and we say that people working in kindergartens should be required to be able to Norwegian. It is quite right, as the representative Henriksen points out, that we now have proposals on the standard of education and on the standard of adulthood, and it is said that we should introduce an obligation – which we also allocate money to this budget – to good information flows between kindergartens and schools and the SFO. It's also true that we're proposing to increase the maximum price by 110 kroner. At the same time, we protect the families who have the worst advice, and in that way I think we both get more money for quality, we increase the kindergarten budgets, and we protect them with the worst of advice far more than the Workers' Party did when they put in government. So finally, as far as the norm is concerned, I could imagine asking a question back to the representative Henriksen: does he think that this norm is not fully financed as it has now been implemented, and in that case does he want to base a new tradition on how we introduce this kind of norm?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1308	Now the Minister of Knowledge continues a new tradition from this government to ask questions when it is the Stortinget to ask questions to the Council of State. But let me get some of what he has said. The kindergarten message, such as to improve quality, fortunately several points of the size were changed. The Storting also demanded a standard of personnel and a standard for several pedagogues in the kindergarten from the government, after they had left their legs behind for many years. It was added already by the Stoltenberg government, and in 2015 the opposition called for a clear plan from the government to introduce the standard of manning. They also asked for an assessment of whether a requirement of 50 pst. kindergarten teachers should be part of the norm. After all, the lack of follow-up by the government has been a frustration for many who work in the kindergarten field. Now, first in spring, the government's follow-up came, among other things. without proper assessment in the case of 50 pst., i.e. half, kindergarten teachers in kindergarten. What I'm wondering is why the government hasn't delivered on what the Storting asked for, among other things. an assessment that half of the children’s home workers should be kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1317	I notice that the Workers' Party has begun to find a good place in the role of opposition party, for now I have been criticized both for doing things and for not doing things – and for what I do is what the Storting has asked me to do. I have to assume that when the Storting actually asks the government to do things, then the government does it. And then you're told that you shouldn't have done that – you should have done it before the Stortinge asked for it! It's a very special approach to how our democracy works. I notice that the representative did not answer my question, because I believe it is quite relevant if he believes that we have not fully financed what we say is fully financed, namely that the municipalities over many years have had enough money to employ enough educators and enough adults. Then we say that there are some municipalities that have prioritised it very well, and some municipalities have not done it well enough. And now we put power behind the demands – it doesn't just keep giving money; we make some demands next to it. It is precisely by saying that there should be a standard of pedagogical density in all kindergartens in Norway. I think that's a positive thing, and I don't quite understand what the Workers' Party is critical of, unless they're going to give far more money to a whole new way of financing things in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1324	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-10-18.ana.ud398e1338	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
