ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e55	The representative Svein Roald Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e91	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and Government 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to eight lines with replies from members of the Government and four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e104	Let me first thank the entire Committee for a good and constructive cooperation in a hectic budget. It's been a pleasure to cooperate with everyone, both position and opposition. The Government Parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have in five budgets and an ambitious national transport plan for the period 2018-2029 implemented a historic journey promise. In 2018, the transport budget is more than 60 pst. higher than in 2013, and we have implemented many important reforms that will contribute to the faster and more efficient construction of roads and roads, and that passengers will receive a better offer, both in terms of capacity and quality. Transport is important for the government and the Right for several reasons. Modern and efficient roads, railways, airports, ports and shipping, together with a good broadband and mobile network, mean increased competitiveness and productivity for our industry. This means that businesses can get their goods transported quickly and efficiently to export markets and that we can build strong housing and labour market regions throughout the country. It also means that Norway can be at the forefront of using new technologies, which is good for us as customers and citizens, and essential for business to continue to compete in a global market. We have to feel safe in traffic, whether we travel on the road, on the track, in the air or at sea. Whatever forms of transport we talk about, road safety is important. The number of fatalities and injuries in traffic has been declining for many years, despite a significant increase in traffic. This is due to a determined effort to build safer roads, increased efforts on maintenance and renewal and new technologies that provide safer vehicles. At the same time, Statens vägvesen, Trygg Trafik and others have made a great effort in the prevention and awareness-raising work. It gives good results over time, and we move step by step closer to the zero vision for damage and death in traffic. In spring we adopted the National Transport Plan 2018–2029. The state budget for 2018 is the first year of this plan, and it is projected to grow in the transport budget of well over 4 billion. in the proposals of the Government, and further strengthening in particular for the maintenance of the railway in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The pace announced in the national transport plan is well under way, and it is absolutely essential that this should be a high priority from the first year of the NTP period, as we see in the 2018 budget. Implementation of the national transport plan has started. National transport plan is not just about the major new projects. It is also about the maintenance and renewal of existing infrastructure. After several decades of growing maintenance kits, the trend has now turned around. Historically high maintenance budgets produce results, and we see a positive development. There's a reason to enjoy. However, it is not enough to grant the money. As important as spending more money is how the money is spent. We have to get more out of each of these heads. This is one of the main reasons why we are implementing necessary and important reforms in the transport sector. The establishment of New Weger AS has shown that it is possible to build roads more reasonably. By using new forms of contract, involving contractors in the past and challenging existing standards, the company’s feedback is that they can build up to 20 pst. cheaper. The fact that Nye Weier AS can build its entire portfolio at a significantly lower cost and thus speed up means that the socio-economic benefits of these projects will benefit in the past, while there will be room for other projects to get moving faster. It's a win-win situation. New roads and the state road network complement each other, and both do an important job. The organisational form and thinking taken into account in New Weger AS will also contribute to challenging the established environments in a positive way. In our opinion, it is important that we have more than one environment working on road construction in Norway and that it provides a basis for increased innovation and learning. At the same time, it is important that, as politicians, we also give the State Road Service the necessary freedom of action, that we be able to give a holistic and stretching priority, and that planning and development be given greater predictability. It will increase efficiency and lower costs. The railway reform is in the start-up phase. The organisational structure has been established and the responsibilities have been clarified within a new framework. This means that the Directorate-General for Railways has the task of coordinating the operational part on behalf of the Ministry and is responsible for the purchase of services from train operators and infrastructure managers. Path NOR is responsible for the development and maintenance of the infrastructure and may have full attention to the efficient construction and operation of the infrastructure. The first package, the Southern Railway, is offered. Introducing competition on the track is my conviction that it will be positive both for the state's purchase of passenger train services and for quality. Competition works, and is an effective tool to improve the provision of travelers. New technologies will change the transport sector in the coming years. We see that the electric car revolution has set a new standard for emissions from cars. At the same time, electrical solutions are at full speed into the maritime sector. By 2020/2021 as many as 50 ferries could be low- and zero-emission ferries using battery electrical solutions. At the same time, a development contract is in place for hydrogen ferries, which could also have a significant impact on other types of vessels. This development comes as a result of state and county purchasing policies and the willingness to invest in new technology, while a forward-looking business life sees new business opportunities and develops technology. It's an exciting time. A few weeks ago, we adopted a new law on testing self-driving vehicles to enter into force in the new year. I myself was in Kongsberg and visited some actors who are ready to submit an application. They will test out a self-driving minibus on a selected route, both summer and winter, one of several exciting projects that can help change the way we think of public transport. Similarly, we see that Yara is developing an autonomous and environmentally friendly container ship to operate between the Her Island factory and the ports of Brevik and Larvik. The project is groundbreaking within its area. Not only is the ship itself autonomous, but the operation on land should be. The ship is based on environmentally friendly technology and moves 40000 vehicle combinations per year from road to sea. I think we've just seen the beginning of this development, and it's up to us to contribute through good grant schemes to the development of new technologies, through Enova and by facilitating laws and regulations so that new technologies can be put into practice. We are already doing well. An important basis for this development is a well-functioning ecosystem with good coverage. This means that the requirements for broadband and a good mobile network are becoming increasingly important. In Norway, we have chosen to let broadband development take place mainly on commercial terms. It's been a success. In 2016, more than 10 billion were invested. the ecosystem, and Norway is at the top of the world on broadband and mobile coverage. It is a competitive advantage that we must continue by continuing to facilitate development, contributing to low costs, for example. through an effective excavation regulation, and have a targeted grant scheme in areas of non-commercial interest. Norway is unique. There are world leaders in every part of the country. A good network of airports, roads and railways and a unique coast with good port conditions and broadband and mobile coverage throughout the world makes this possible. For the Right and Government it is important to build a good infrastructure throughout the country. This means that we need to have a well-functioning road and road network that connects the parts of the country and facilitates efficient housing and labour market regions, from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. At the same time, it is important that we address the challenges in the urban regions. In large cities in particular, good land-use planning, the development of collective solutions and the organisation of walking and cycling are particularly important. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, adds 50 pst. co-financing on major collective projects and significantly increased support for collective, gangways and bicycles during this period of government. It is a strategy well anchored in the national transport plan, which the majority will continue in the coming years. Our ability to deal with future transport challenges is largely about new technologies. We are on our way into a new era, where new technology will create a better offer for travellers and contribute to more environmentally friendly transport. The national transport plan and the state budget for 2018 are another step on the way to a more modern and sustainable transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e153	The local representative likes to talk about new technology, about broadband bets and mentions that we are at the top of the world when it comes to broadband coverage – and we are. But then I don't understand that one reduces the bet on broadband to the extent that one does. I would say that there is a lack of broadband investment in this budget, and such a lack of investment will hamper the development of industry in the districts and create an A layer and a B layer among the population, where some have high-speed broadband, while others do not. Therefore, the Workers' Party's alternative budget is set at more than 400 million. kr than the government. Can the representative respond to why the government does not bet on broadband coverage in its draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e160	I completely disagree with the premises of the question. As I just explained in my article, the Norwegian model is based on the fact that there are commercial developers who take the big promises in the broadband sector. That means it's invested over 10 billion. kr only in 2016 on broadband in Norway in the ecosystem and in the 4G network. It also means that we fully agree with the grant scheme that we have and that we want to continue it. The government has continued it in the state budget for 2018, while through the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have further strengthened it. That is, the contribution to the grant scheme is slightly higher in 2018 than it was in 2017. It's to meet the areas where the coverage is the worst. What we see is that the coverage in both Finnmark, Hedmark and other areas where it has been poor, through a targeted grant scheme is now significantly improved from when the representative Langholm Hansen's party, the Workers' Party, was put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e167	I want to follow up the previous line, because also I and the Center Party believe that the government has low ambitions to ensure that the commercial operators do not expand broadband. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to negotiate a little more than the halves that the government parties originally had. But when we look at the great need for funds, the many applications that come every year, I think it's amazing that the Right, which will be very clear about the importance of nutrition, does not contribute any more to ensuring that business outside the big cities also gets on the Internet faster. In addition, I wonder what is the local representative's definition of good broadband. Is that 4, 30 or 100 Mbits per second?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e174	I believe that when the Central Party is going to discuss broadband, it is only about grant schemes, and grant schemes are important. It is important that we also have good arrangements where it is not possible to build on commercial terms. At the same time, we forget the big picture. This government and the majority assume that we have a good grant scheme, we have invested more on an alternative core network, we are betting on fibre cables abroad, and not least we are making it possible for players to expand broadband cheaper than they have done in the past. It makes it stronger every year. While the government of Solberg has been sitting, broadband coverage in Norway has improved, not only in general, but also through a targeted grant scheme in the areas with the worst coverage. It shows that we're on the right track. We're at the top of the world in broadband coverage, and we're still going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e179	I assume that the Right continues to support Storting's previous view that all growth in urban traffic and urban struts must take place through collective investment, cycling and walking. In that case, walking and cycling routes are essential. Strong urban reward schemes are important. And the right suggestion was to cut down. The entry for walking and cycling was proposed more than halved from the Right Party Government. Does the representative not think that it is noticed that hundreds of millions of dollars are being removed for this purpose? And how can such cuttings harmonize with the desire to bet on walking and cycling? The small increase in intermediate batches does not justify the original proposal. Or was it just an bait to the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e184	When we're talking about cuts, maybe we should listen to SV. We're happy with the deal we've got in place. We are pleased that we have good walking and cycling arrangements and good arrangements to support collective action in larger urban areas. From this government there is a clear promise of 50 pst. coverage of large collective projects. While SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre were in government, that proportion was down to maybe 10-15 pst. It shows that we are now betting significantly more than what was done under the previous regime. The promise we have made in relation to what has been done in the past in the field of urbanization, but also in the field of transport in general, to bet on good collective solutions, walking and cycling solutions, I am proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e191	Helge Orten, as a representative of More and Romesdal, is well aware of the importance of express bus routes in Norway for the overall public network. In examining the national transport plan, the Transport Committee was very concerned that we should pursue a more active express bus policy in the coming years. Many of our express bus routes are struggling, have great challenges, and we have to do something if we are to keep many of our express bus routes, which are important in the overall collective service. The opposition parties today suggest that we take a closer look at a system of so-called social discounts, i.e. that the state compensates for discounts for children, students, pensioners, guardians and the kind of travellers. My question is: Why is Right against this, and what measures do Right have to strengthen the express buses in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e197	I agree with a little bit of the challenge picture that the representative Myrli here describes for the express bus routes, because what we see is that a lot of these express bus routes go parallel to the railway, and there are different framework conditions for the railways and the bus routes. The express bus routes are largely in a commercial market and must relate to the framework conditions that lie there, while public transport, for example trains in this case, has subsidy schemes, or we have purchases of personal services. I don't think this is as simple as we can just adopt changes in discount structure, this is also an adaptation. When we see that the rail offer has improved significantly, that means that the competition for the express buses is becoming more difficult. I think that's a challenge that we have to deal with, but I'm not sure if we have the right solution – just to be completely honest about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e202	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e207	In June, the Stortinget examined the national transport plan. The working party had four clear bet areas: climate and collective action scrambling and safety; coast and port digital infrastructure This is what we are following up in our alternative budget for 2018. In total, we're adding over 500 million. SEK for transport purposes in our alternative budget for 2018 – 500 million. kr more than in the government proposal. This is also in line with what we said when dealing with the national transport plan. Our efforts in the budget – as in the National Transport Plan – are: more for collective investment in metropolitan areas – so that the country can contribute up to 70 p.p. of the costs of large collective investment more for railways, both for operation and maintenance and for planning and investment more to ports, fairways and coastal action more for skid-proofing more for broadband expansion The Party considers that the State should contribute up to 70 pst. to large collective investments in the Oslo area, Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger. In 2018, it is relevant for projects in Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger – and we follow up with funds, so that one could reach 70 pst. State share. This principle should apply to all future major investments in metropolitan areas – metrobus in Trondheim, bus route in Stavanger area, urban railway in Bergen and railway development in Oslo and Akershus, such as Fornebubanen, the Rome Railway and other T-Bahn facilities. A lot of money is being spent on the railway, and more needs to be used. Mostly now, the four InterCity sections of the East are being expanded. During the autumn budgetary process, the Transport Committee has received a number of contacts from counties, municipalities, environmental organisations and business organisations in the East, and they are all concerned about progress in the planning of InterCity development. This takes the Workers' Party seriously, and therefore we propose more for planning and investment on the railways. After the Workers' Party's vision, we have to start building the Ringerik Railway in 2021. We are also very disappointed that the government is now postponing – or perhaps scrapping – the long-planned electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway. The promises we received from the government parties and their representatives as late as in the election campaign were hardly worth much when we saw the budget proposal. Now we have to get started, and the Labour Party is therefore proposing it today. It is also important to speed up the plans for the new railway between Arna and Stanghelle on Bergensbanen, double tracks on the Jærbanen to Egersund, double tracks on Ofotbanen and measures to strengthen rail freight transport — for example: measures on Kongswingerbanen. As part of the so-called railway reform, rail freight charges on rail have to increase considerably. Many operators in the transport sector are now alerting. With the sharp increases in rail charges now being imposed, many fear that the result will be less goods on the road, contrary to political objectives, because transporting goods on the rail will be more expensive, much more expensive. Understand the one who can. The mail alerts, the NHO alerts, the LO alerts, environmental organisations alert, and transport companies and collectors alert. The rail charges are now increasing, and that does not help to ensure that rail freight is provided in 10 years' time or 15 years' time. Then there might not be any freight on the railway again, if we get the huge tax increases that it is now adding up to. We take the situation seriously and therefore propose to stop the planned increases in rail freight charges. We are also promoting proposals to stop the launch of rail transport by the government and the majority of the population. A large and expensive system is now being built on our railways – with a number of companies and units. This is the Workers' Party against. Instead of creating new squares on the organisation map, putting millions out on a comprehensive administrative apparatus and launching train services, we want to spend money building more railways, because that is what is needed – more double-tracked, modern rail. The pension rights of railway employees are now also at stake. When we dealt with the so-called railway reform, the figures for the government parties, the government and the supporting parties said that it should not affect the working conditions of the employees. Abid Q. Raja stood on the lion's tray and promised that it would not go beyond the pension rights. Now we see it going beyond the pension rights of the employees of the railway – just as we feared. It is a clear political objective to get more goods from road to sea and track. That the government then proposes a real decline in the Coastal Agency budget is completely incomprehensible. The coast of Norway can do better than this. We have to bet on our ports and our coast – don't cut. Here are great opportunities – if we want to. The Workers' Party therefore wishes to strengthen the allocations to ports and fairways, to grant grants to municipal fishing ports and to the aid scheme to shipping companies for the transfer of goods from road to sea. In the 2018 budget, the government halves the subsidy to municipal fishing ports. It's totally incomprehensible. Last year the Transport Committee visited the National Communications Authority in Lillesand. There we were told that there is a great need for subsidies for the construction of broadband. This year, it's worth 140 million. kr in broadband extension grants. It suggested that the government halve - I repeat: halve - to $70 million. kr. Why on earth did they propose that? Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party has been corrected, but they have only moved back to the beginning. It's not a bet. No, this is too bad – too passive. The Workers' Party proposes to double the broadband extension grant to 500 million. NOK – as we said in the treatment of our national transport plan. Both for enterprises and for households, broadband and digital infrastructure are as important today as electricity and telephone. And here the community must contribute where the market itself is unable to expand the infrastructure. Let me also add that missing broadband is not just a challenge in pig-grown strips. One does not have to travel far from the lion's tray to find places with missing broadband coverage. Many places in Rome, for example, just a short drive from the Oslo centre, have a non-wideband connection. Of course, it's not durable. Let me say a little bit about a couple of the other suggestions we're promoting today. We propose that a system of so-called social discounts be introduced on express bus routes – i.e. discount for children, students, pensioners and guardians – and that the state compensate the bus companies for this. It is likely that the express buses are the only collective means of transport that do not have such discounts today. The express buses are a very important part of the collective offer in our country. Such a discount system as we are proposing today would be an important and correct grant to strengthen the basis of the express buses. Then we have seen the need to make a proposal that the government and the Minister of Transport are now settling the situation of modular trains. Our main road network is open for modular train – and that's good. But many of our production companies are not on the main road network. There may be short distances where a modular train is not permitted from the operation and out onto the main road network, and that does not help to open the main road network to such combinations of vehicles, when the routes of supply are not. So I would say it's very gratifying that it seems to be a majority for the proposal to state that the new collective solution at Lower Romerike is going to be orbit, i.e. rail-going transport. Now we have to stop all these investigations – now even a bus option is being investigated that nobody wants. Now let's build a path – as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to say that the Labour Party supports proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party, about the way to Kjevik and Rv. 9 in Setesdal. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1-12 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e278	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e285	In the National Transport Plan 2018-2029, the Workers' Party promised to accelerate 27 large road projects to over 50 billion. kr, but turned off only 5 billion. kr for the purpose – a significant underfinancing and a complete lack of priority. The representative Gahr Støre was challenged in the financial debate and confirmed that the Workers' Party is now giving different priorities, only a few months after he and the Workers' Party promised the voters something completely different. The national transport plan only a few months ago, the working party’s road lift seems to have been cancelled. In the 2018 budget, the Workers' Party does not give priority to increasing funding, so I expect the representative Myrli to agree with the representative Gahr Støre that the roadlifts have been cancelled and that the Workers' Party is now making a different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e292	I think, for the sake of the peace of the house, I must first say that the representative Myrli agrees with the representative Gahr Støre. So I don't share the introduction to the question from the place. The Workers' Party proposed in June to strengthen the framework of the National Transport Plan by 7 billion. kr over the 12-year period. It would be – if you theoretically divide it in twelve years – 580 million. kr per year. We're adding something that I think is between 530 and 540 million. kr, next year. We are at the level we said when dealing with the national transport plan. In 2018, however, we prioritise increases to rail, to racial protection, to collective projects and to broadband. Because in those areas, the draft budget was the worst, and it was the most important thing for us to raise to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e299	The Labour Party has long questioned the company Nye Veier, whether they are in favour or against, whether they should assess the company and what they should do in the future. In the budgetary procedure, it may at least seem that the Workers' Party is really for New Roads, but only a little bit of it has to pry. Then I have to ask a question to the Workers' Party. When it is stated in the Workers’ Note that ‘this marginal reduction is taken into account’ – i.e. 60 million. kr – ‘may be carried out through reduced purchases of consultants and the effect of increased digitisation and simplification of planning processes’, is my question: Can the Workers' Party's representative explain the nation, and tell us, what kind of digital solutions they now have, which neither the nation nor New Roads know?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e308	I think perhaps the Stordalen has some great hopes for how many are following this debate, if his goal is to explain to the nation Norway what we have proposed in the national transport plan, but I will try. The working party opposed the creation of New Roads. Of course, we accept that the bulk of the population created it, and once it is established, we want the company to succeed in the job they have to do. We are also in order to build the road projects that New Veger will build, but we do not believe it is necessary that we have two roadways in Norway. We had managed with one road system, and we could have given the state road system new framework conditions if we wanted to. We want New Roads to succeed, but it is absolutely right that we propose a small cut for New Roads, which is also proposed elsewhere. I have to say it is quite free by the representative of the Progress Party to hang out in the small cut we have for New Veier. They can, for example, harmonise their management salaries – that could be a good idea. But it's quite easy to deal with this when we have a government that cuts enormously in public in terms of universities, colleges, courts and what it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e317	As a resident in Groruddalen and a representative of Oslo, I am very pleased that we now have a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Left, which now determines that future collective solutions at Lower Romerike should be a solution, i.e. rail transport, and not a bus solution. The SV and the Workers' Party also agree that the plans for the project must be continued and that the State must contribute to the development costs, as we also heard the representative talk about in his post. My question to the representative of the Workers' Party is how we are now going to proceed with this project that is so much in need, and why the representative believes that the path solution is the preferred option.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e324	I share SV's impatience, and I don't understand that it's going to take so long to get the required track solutions started. I remember that the bourgeois parties in front of the 2013 elections were standing at Fornebu and said that now should the spade in the earth. There's no spade yet on the Fornebuban. It'll take too long. It takes too long with the Rome Railway, and it takes too long with the large collective development we need in the Oslo area. Then at least we can stop figuring out unrealistic alternatives, because no one wants a bus alternative in the Groruddalen or Lower Romerike. Oslo Municipality doesn't want it. Akershus doesn't want it. Lørskog doesn't want it. Skedsmo doesn't want it. That is why I believe it is a powerful signal today that the Stortinget can state that further plans for collective solutions at Lower Romerike should be a solution. The state must contribute, including to planning, so that there is progress in both planning and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e333	Swearing Myrli mentions several railway extensions that have been on the wish list and are in the NTP. But in a comment on the position of the budget we are dealing with today, there is a 200 million-dollar framework. kr, and it shall finance intercity development on the Dovrebanen, Østfoldbanen, Vestfoldbanen, Ringeriksbanen, Trønderbanen, Meråkerbanen, Gjøvikbanen, Kongsvingerbanen, Oslotunnel, Jærbanen and Ofotbanen. Dear Myrli, is this a greeting home? It would have been 200 million. For each of them, I would have understood that, but here it's 200 million. kr for such large projects. What is this thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e341	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e346	If it's greetings home, I don't really know. So many places of residence I don't have, so what the representative means by that, I'm somewhat uncertain about. We believe that there is a need for more money for both railway operation and maintenance. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party received more money there. But we also believe that it is important to go further with the planning of important railway projects and important investment projects. Then I have to say that the representative has to read the whole comment, because it says that we do not have the money to build all that in 2018. Of course we don't. There are limits to what we're also going to do for 200 million. kr. But at least there is money to go on with the projects, for example. The racetrack, which Gunnes promised in the election campaign, but for which there are now zero dollars in investments. 200 million. kr is, after all, better than zero, so the Left should vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal instead of the proposal they are going to vote for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e355	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e360	We're dealing with today's Prop. 13 S and Prop. 16 S for 2017-2018, new age. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. It is a unified, unanimous committee, except for some comments relating to postal services, Cape. 1370, and Post 73, intercity Sandbukta-Moss-Sostad on Østfoldbanen. Otherwise, it is a unanimous committee, and I thank the Committee for its good cooperation. The state budget for 2018 is joyous reading, and commerce is once again a winner and a distinct priority area. It is also with the right government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who is basically about security, predictability and security for people most. This is very important for the Advancement Party, and we are pleased with the government's record bet of 67,5 billion. kr for transportation. Never before has it been so hard to maintain what we have, while building new and modern infrastructure. The government, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, delivers on transportation and makes a formidable effort, among other things. with the road reform, e.g. New Veier AS. The company already shows very good results and calculates a saving of 30 billion. kr on its portfolio. This shows that the establishment of the company was a proper act, and will ensure that we get more weight for each fund, while managing taxpayers' money in a better and more sensible way. The story of New Veger is already a success story. It is therefore sad to read that the opposition in its alternative budgets cuts all or part of the grant to Nye Wegener. High development costs have long been a problem. The Workers' Party agrees that road development costs need to be reduced. Nevertheless, they do not make a single proposal on how to improve the efficiency of development and reduce costs. What they are doing, on the other hand, is proposing significant cuts in the system that has actually proved to be working. However, the inability of the opposition to take the cost challenge seriously is no surprise. Under the NTP adopted by the Red-Greens, the average cost of road projects increased by 40 pst. from the planning phase to the implementation phase. The sitting government shows that you're gripping to stop this. If the costs of a road project increase, the cost is stopped — simply to control costs. One must have respect for taxpayers' money. In addition, a formidable railway investment continues, in order to strengthen people's choices as to the means of transport they intend to use in their everyday journeys. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the State budget for 2018 grants a grant of 516 million. to reduce toll tariffs outside urban areas. In the last four years, toll growth has been reduced by the closure of a number of toll stations, increased government shares in projects and reduced fares in projects outside the major urban areas. The scheme will save the drivers for 0.5 billion. Toll tolls, which is what we are doing at the same time as road pricing and investment are increasing. So we're able to relieve the burden on the drivers, while building more roads than ever to tie the country together. This is good district policy and would not have happened without the Progress Party in government. It is therefore sad to see that the opposition wants to remove the subsidy for the reduction of toll tariffs, and instead shift the financial burden on the drivers and make it more difficult for people in the districts to make use of cars as a means of delivery. The 2018 State Budget represents a historic commitment to transport and is a good budget for the entire transport sector. In addition to investing and building more roads than ever before, the maintenance run on the infrastructure goes down. It is now five months since the adoption of the current NTP. This NTP of over 1000 billion. kr is the most ambitious ever. The state budget for 2018 shows that we are already doing well in implementing this historic NTP. We're building new and modern infrastructure, while the lag on the infrastructure goes down, and we're able to take care of what we already have. We're trying to facilitate digitisation, technology, which we're also following up on in the NTP. There has been talk of mail – yes, we facilitate modern mail and respond to the need, what postal services are all about. We're also answering for broadband. I would like to remind the Workers' Party, which is occupied by broadband, that it is not full coverage over everything, but the states that have the worst coverage, Hedmark and Uppland, have almost a double coverage of four years. It doesn't mean there's anything cut, it's actually happened a lot. Sogn and Fjordane, which have the lowest coverage, have almost a triple coverage in four years. So the grant scheme that is now works well, instead of the way it used to be, that you lubricated the money thickly and thinly, and nothing happened to the coverage. That's the coverage people are occupied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e388	One of Norway's most important industries is the fishing industry. The export value for Norwegian seafood was staggering 91.6 billion. kr in 2016. Norway’s future well-being includes: to rest on the shoulders of the fishing and aquaculture industries. In addition, the Norwegian fishing industry is an eternity machine if stocks are managed correctly. The fishing industry needs a good, modern and safe infrastructure, through inter alia: port development. The government has halved the grant to municipal fishing ports. I wonder, is this how to strengthen Norwegian fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e395	This government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has strengthened the industry considerably. We've invested enormously, and a huge amount of road is being built. Roads to ports are repaired. A subsidy scheme has also been introduced in this budget — in Chapter of the Ministry of Finance — to allow for the advance of funds for port development. So this government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, absolutely facilitates the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e400	Like the President, I am also a settler, and Uppland is one of the states that the representative Stordalen takes up, which has the worst coverage in terms of broadband. Then the representative says the coverage has doubled in Uppland in the last few years. That might be true, because when you talk about low numbers, doubles can happen quickly, and doubles happen in the commercial areas, where one has a market that finances it. But how does Stordalen think that one should raise the 40 pst? which currently does not have a cover? Does Stordalen mean that the remaining population of Uppland, which is outside the commercial and developed districts, should not become part of this digital network?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e407	I'm very glad that over the four years that lie behind us now, it has happened near a doubling of the coverage in Uppland, as I said. Under the regime that was before, nothing happened, and I'm absolutely sure you're going to increase your coverage further in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e412	When a reader hears the programme of the Progress Party and the draft budget and hears the rhetoric, everything suggests that climate change and the threat of a two to three degrees warmer climate on the globe does not matter at all to this party. It's not so strange maybe, because this party probably has the absolute majority of climate skeptics in its ranks. It is private carism that is being hailed – over and over again. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Stordalen, about the following: What offensive action has the Progress Party taken to – and not be forced to – participate, which can refute my impression of the Progress Party as the worst climate sink in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e419	The President expects this to relate to transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e425	I'm very happy to have the question. The Progress Party has taken really good initiatives. Good Progress Party policy works. The car charges have been greatly reduced, so that people can buy an environmentally friendly, safe and safe car. We're using carrots, not whips. We are building up the collective offer enormously in the cities. While SV was in government, the state went in with 10-15 pst. in the big cities to help them. Now the number is 50 pst. The cities do a lot for collective action, so does this government, with the Advance Party. We're going to make sure that where you can go and ride, you can actually choose that if you want to. There is so much money given to them that the municipalities have not used up their pot from last year, and therefore it is a little smaller this year. So with the Progress Party it goes down. I can also assure the representative Nävra that the emissions from the transport sector overall decreased in 2016. Progress Party policy works.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e436	Now I want to ask the representative Stordalen a question about a topic that I know he and the Progress Party are concerned about, and that concerns the situation of the modular train, which we have several times affected, both in the handling of the national transport plan and many other times. At the budget hearing in the autumn, many of the organisations that were visiting were concerned about this. I have attended many meetings – also with representatives from the Progress Party who think the situation is hopeless, and who say that we just have to sort this out. The problems associated with the use of modular train from industrial enterprises and on the main road network have not yet been addressed. My question is simple and straightforward: why is it not dealt with in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e443	I am – like Sverre Myrli – busy with the modular train and availability, and fortunately something has happened during this government. So it took a Progress Party State Council to clean this up. Over many years this has been a theme in the truck industry. Many sections are open to it, and more will be opened. You have to be absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e453	We have been presented with a draft budget for the transport sector in Norway for next year, which is ambitious in a number of areas, but which are clearly missing, which means that this document has an impact page. Some of this has been corrected in the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the two supporting parties, but the Central Party still believes that the priorities of the pluralist parties in the transport sector are not enough to facilitate a balanced approach to transport across the country. The most open in the 2018 budget proposal is the down-priority of county roads and racial protection, but also a lack of broadband investment is striking. If there's something that both business and the people around the country have said clearly, it's that if they're going to be able to do business and bow where they do, they need high-speed broadband coverage. This is based on competitiveness and security, but not least on a level playing field in order to participate in the current digital developments, which was also clarified by the Prime Minister in the debate on the persuasion of the fall. The center party thinks that everyone has to be in the digital world web, and not just part of the population, as it is today. That's why the Center Party has invested 500 million. in its draft budget to launch a strong commitment to speed up access to broadband for all, as opposed to the proposal put forward by the majority parties. We also increased the pot to the post by 100 million. kr to contribute to post-return five days a week, as the Stortinget has agreed, but as the Post itself claims the proposal by the government does not cover. The Central Party believes that there is also a need to ensure a better follow-up to the national transport plan when it comes to investment in the national and county road network. Over time, there has been a significant downfall on the county road network. For those who use the road, it is very important to have a coherent, well-named one, regardless of the level of management that owns the road on which you run. A more liberal economy for municipalities and counties, which we in the Centre Party propose, means a substantial strengthening of the evna to the municipal sector to maintain on municipal and county roads. The centre Party has also provided additional funds in its alternative budget for maintaining county roads, in particular due to requirements imposed by the Tunnel Safety Regulation. This is a commitment under the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and is 200 million. kr. We've also increased the contribution to highway investment by 300 million. in addition to the proposal of the Government. This makes it possible to provide some strategically important road sections that the government has unfortunately not followed. It is particularly important to make use of the opportunities to resolve potential synergies in the major road construction and maintenance apparatus that is taking place around the country this year. The party proposed to allow more distinction to the county roads in its proposal to the revised national budget. We are continuing this proposal with new additional promises for 2018. We believe this is absolutely necessary and are sceptical that the government is proposing new funds for the interest compensation scheme for county roads rather than for flue and scrapping protection. We also want an additional commitment to CO 2 reduction and to establish a CO 2 fund for heavy traffic by 1 billion. Start-up capital, which will be included and ensured to reduce emissions, in cooperation with the transport industry. We also want a statement on how to get an advanced road pricing where the car list pays for that road route that is actually useful, and when you use it, based on location data. This will provide a fairer road pricing system than many people experience today. We have put in a budget proposal of 10 million. kr for such a project. I also believe that more effort must be made to distort the growth of freight traffic from road to rail and sea. This could reduce the risk of accidents and wear on the road network, and Norway would be better able to achieve its targets for reducing emissions from the freight transport sector. The central party believes that this is a strategically important investment in a phase where freight transport is expected to increase significantly. If you want to be clear, you need to strengthen the regularity of rail freight transport, especially on the long distances between parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e472	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e477	Norway's entry has been through major change and conversion processes as a result of a greater degree of digitisation and a strongly falling letter volume. The central party says the Post is underfunded, but at the same time wants the Post to have new tasks. The centre lot will maintain A and B mail – only it is cost-based for approx. 200 million. kr. In addition, the Central Party would like to strengthen the country postal service. In its alternative budget, the Central Party is committed to increasing the purchase of postal services by 100 million, for which the representative has also done well. kr for 2018. How does the Center Party explain that they're adding 100 million? Do the proposals finance their proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e482	The central party is aware that the post office is coming forward, and I had hoped that the government party too would have thought in its proposal. We have a conversion that's now happening at post-transmission in Norway. I also demand that we need a long-term conversion, but as of today we do not have a good enough broadband network. We're strengthening the broadband to ensure that more people can connect on the digital network to just receive digital e-mails, but at present we don't have enough security. The Norwegian Post has also said that they need more money to finance the mail transfer. They have also ordered an external review of the costs of re-routing them, which I had hoped the government would have ordered in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e489	In 2013, the current Minister of Local Councillor Navarsete expressed concern about the digital class division between the city and the district, which was created under the red-green. In my home state of Finnmark, which is defined by many as districts, we definitely mark the digital class division. In 2013 it was only 7 pst. which had useful broadband coverage, and no one had 4G coverage inside. Today we have almost full 4G coverage in Finnmark and broadband coverage at the height of central strokes. The Director of the National Communications Authority stated so late as in October this year that the number of households with fibre broadband has increased considerably and increased sharply, and that it is the largest in the districts – only last year there have been 127 000 more households in Norway in fixed broadband. Is the Central Party representative satisfied with the development of the removal of the digital class division? And if the representative is satisfied with the changes in the award criteria, do they seem more focused on getting broadband development in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e498	I'm far from happy with the change that's happening, the speed when it comes to connecting everyone on the digital network. That's why the Center Party has added half a billion for the next year, to connect to more. I was at Otta yesterday and met a group of machine contractors from Gudbrandsdalen who have set up a network to strengthen their competence. The stakes are on digital maps, which are now downloaded to the excavator or bulldozer so that they can run and control them with millimetre precision from satellite control. Lesja Bulldozerlag has its office in an area where there is no broadband coverage, and they are completely excluded from working digitally with their maps and their excavators, which work around much of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e507	The left is very happy that the centre party mentions in its post today that one sees an extensive use of road pricing, and not least satellite surveillance for getting a proper pricing. But there have been different versions in the media lately where one can begin to wonder if the Centre Party really believes that this user funding – as it actually is – is something they actually want to have, both to pay for road development and at the same time to be a whip for switching from car use to collective use. How is the view of the Central Party on toll systems, just so that we can make it clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e513	It's possible Gunnes refers to a VG lookup a while ago where I mentioned Oslo, which is about to become a fixture against car traffic into town. Our entry point is that we want a road pricing, based on what we have put in. We're sceptical about the construction of physical blockages and physical toll stations that Oslo is about to do, and that one has such a formidable growth at some times of the day now, in order to shut down car traffic, which in many cases it's still necessary to come in here. There are many companies that deliver goods and services to Oslo now that feel that this is so demanding that they work hard to deliver those services. So yes, the Center Party still wants a road pricing, but we want a switch from the physical toll barriers we have today to a digital network.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e518	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e523	What do we want our society to look like in the years to come? That's a big question. Where do we want people to live or feed? Or what are we going to have left of food soil, by valuable nature and not least: how much gas are we going to get out of the kind that gives the globe a fever? A lot of this is determined by the transport solutions we choose. We are debating that sector today, and it is crucial for the future. I want to make this so swollen because I want to lift my eyes a little bit – look forward and don't think in the short term. That's what the SV's budget proposal is all about. We want to get out of this traditional pattern of thought, this coercion in the big games -- especially in the blues. If there are questions about a lot of traffic, then do we have to have more road? It sounds obvious and simple, doesn't it? But then it's not so obvious and simple, unfortunately. We can't build ourselves out of the problems of four-six-six-field paths to astronomical sums, for example. westward from Oslo. If we are to have access for the private car, there are even more cars on the road, and then it has to be built even more. Especially in urban areas, this is an impossible idea, and fortunately, the Stortinget has knelt as a principle that all traffic growth must take place through public transport, bicycles and corridors. Since transport accounts for a large part of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, we need to take strong action right here. What most distinguishes SV's views from the other parties in the committee are the following: we say railway-rail-railway, not road-road-road-road or fly-air-plane. SV wants the railway to bind cities and parts of the country together, not including four-field motorways and aeroplanes. SV does not support the idea of ferry-free E39 from Kristiansand to Trondheim. The huge fjord intersections and sections with four-field standard will cost incredible 340 billion. kr according to provisional estimate. SV would instead like to bet on modern electric ferries with frequent departures and repairing the roads between ferries. This is the agreement of the Company of Caravans with us. SV will move money from the large national road investments to rail and other collective solutions. SV's option means 1.8 billion. kr more to the railway than the government is going in favour of. It is essential that the maintenance is phased out, that bottlenecks be rectified and that intercity development be reformed. SV is still a road party – a road party for the districts, where people are most often totally dependent on the car. We want middle parts, improvement of curves, greater road width, race protection, etc. In addition, SV will take a power grip for bicycle paths on both national and county roads. SV is going to be 700 million. NOK extra for this. SV will also ensure that the new railway intercity sections meet the requirements to be included as part of future high-speed trains. Then we're into another important point, which many people know as an S.B.H.H. The Nordics are flying ten times more than the average in Europe. The internal routes are some of the most trafficked in our part of the world. SV will in the long run replace the huge air traffic with lightning trains between the major cities of Norway. A new lightning investigation has to be in place, since the previous plan had major defects and was built on the wrong premises, in our opinion. Traffic growth in the larger cities can only take place through public transport, bicycles and corridors, as mentioned above. There is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. But the funds must follow the wishes. That's the whole point. SV wants the state to take the majority of the costs, 70 pst. – for which the Workers' Party has also entered – at these roofs for buses and tracks. In total, SV will increase the entries for this by 2 billion. kr in its alternative budget. The funds shall be used to increase the number of cities receiving urban growth agreements and public transport reward funds. When the drivers get bombings and highways closed, SV will offer cheap and good collective solutions. At the same time, a technological revolution is taking place that allows coastal electrification. SV shall be a driver for the submission of public tender emission requirements, such as the current coastal route offer and for the provision of shore-side electricity. I want to discuss the proposals SV is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e551	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e558	What remains in the red-green alternative budgets, at least the SVs and the Labour Party budget, is that they are not so much concerned about what balances the bottom line. They have very great hopes that little money will do very much. They're very busy with the big cities. I have understood that SV is a city party and not so much a district party. As regards grants for public transport, I would like to mention that in the years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Oslo and Akershus received NOK 0 of the reward scheme. So now we get 50 pst. for the major collective actions, and Fornebubanen alone will have 6 billion. kr. 6 B.C.E. kr is pretty much more than 0. How can one explain that the red-green government never found it worth betting on Oslo and Akershus?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e567	I can't explain that. I agree with the representative Igstad – it was very bad. I hope we're going to grab hold of this now to get this up. In our alternative budgets, we do. We're taking very strong grips. And as you know, there's a majority of the city council that's going the same way, so now, of course, the parties at Stortinget are working very hard with the city council in Oslo on this front. I think that old history, at least for me as a representative, is little worth, but SV was also in minority, of course, in the former government. That's not all we can do, but I can promise that the argument has probably gone to the room also about collective solutions in the former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e572	New roads have been given the task of challenging the established, thinking new, thinking differently and getting the most traffic-proof path for the money. Already now we see that New Roads is a huge success. They're going to build significantly faster, and it's going to save society and taxpayers for 30 billion. kr that can be used in other good areas, as I know that SV is very concerned about: health care, care for the elderly and not least better public transport. We record that SV does not grant more money to Nye Weier, and consequently it seems that they want to wind up the company. Before asking the question, I would like to inform the representative from SV about completely moving fresh, day-to-day statistics, which show that emissions from transport in 2016 went down. So we're going that way at least SV is very busy – I'm aware of that. Then I wonder: Does SV not want to build new, safe, safe roads and then stop the project to Nye Veier? Does SV simply not want to save public costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e581	It follows a very clear logic in SV to let the budget follow our political priorities. Now New Roads are rigged to build four-field highways. The representative Johnsen then understands very well that we cannot set aside funds for New Roads. We are withdrawing what is not started, because we do not want the big bet on four-field motorways – it is that simple. It is possible that the cost per metre may have been reduced — all indications are that, although some of the quality requirements have also fallen somewhat, there has been a lot of discussion in the newspapers. I follow the representative Johnsen in terms of modernization, thinking new, but it could also have been done organizationally with the State Road Service. That's the whole point. It wasn't done. It should have been done, and there are the old sins also in the former governments – obviously. The problem is the big four-field highways. I have to answer it to Johnsen – that's where it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e588	There are good intentions in much of what SV is presenting today, but it's a little about life and learning. I have been to Trondheim and worked a lot with the environmental package in Trondheim. Half of the money spent there, approx. 14 B.C.E. NOK over a 15-year period, therefore, is to be used. It is quite clear that SV has also participated in it in Trondheim, as have they in Oslo in the case of Oslopacket 3, how much of the money is to be spent on the road. Why does the SV go out and say what they say about actually just prioritizing public transport, railway, bicycles and corridors in the cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e595	I just want to say that I am looking forward to my line to the left! We're in the same situation, left and right. We are very often fighting against a majority in environmental policy. Probably we're a little happy with each other's existence. I have no doubt that even in Trondheim, SV has fought their fights, and it ends with compromises that we can live with. I'm going to promise that we're going to hitchhike to get more to the collective effort and get more to the bike and walking routes in the big cities. I think all the representatives in the room know that. But it's sometimes we get problems, we get a little bit of stomach trouble if we have to give too much. That's the sum that counts. It turns out that where there is a red-green majority in cities, it goes the right way. And then I don't mean "way" as a physical path, but it goes in the right direction – in the direction of collective action, and especially for bicycles and bikes. And look at Oslo as an exhibition window.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e605	SV has been clearly sceptical about the reorganization of tribal road development in Norway through Nye Veier, which has given faster development and a reduction in costs of about 10 %. 20 pst as far as we can see today. Today, we see that SV is promoting proposals for the creation of a state-owned company, as they will call New Baner, for the very rapid expansion of lynching between the major cities of Norway and Scandinavia. Then my question is: has SV changed its view of the new organisation, as has been done with Nye Veier, that it is a success and that they will therefore copy the system of rapid and efficient development of the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e613	I thank you for that question. If SV wanted a lot more highway, we might have smelled like New Weier AS. It's not impossible. But we had probably first entered the State Road Service and looked at a possible reorganisation there, and that they could do the same job with the same conditions. In the case of New Courses AS that we want to create, no one here is strange to think that this is a rhetorical grip, that it's very similar to New Roads AS. It's because we imagine that it would be a state company that gets a share capital and can become a unit that has one purpose – a little bit according to New Weeer's principle of building a road, but building a railway and building it quickly. Then it may well be that it is a proposal for the great parties that are happy in New Veier AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e622	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e627	The left had in its alternative budget a growth and a re-prioritisation of the original proposal for the government budget in the field of transport and communication of nearly 3 billion. kr in new measures, cut to 1.4 billion. kr, and thus a real increase of SEK 1,6 billion. kr. There were clear priorities in rail, bicycle and gangways, and not least a reward scheme for cities that would focus on greater use of collective transport solutions. The negotiations ended with an increase of 0.8 billion. kr, cut at €0.5 billion. kr and a real increase of SEK 0,3 billion. kr. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party have clearly been passed through, re-prioritized – and greater in sum. The most important thing for the Left is a railway where trains are on the route, the goods arrive at the scheduled time, the passenger trains go fast, and go more often and are cheap to those who use it every day. In 2018, an increased maintenance budget is 447 million. kr for railway the most important. Already at the hearing following the presentation of the budget, we were clearly informed in the Committee by railway sector actors about a clear need: capacity to carry out the tasks and, not least, the ability to improve the reputation of the railway. In 2018, this will make it possible to work – and work a lot – to make the railway more attractive. In the national transport plan, adopted less than six months ago, the Left is a party to the majority. The projects adopted there commit the Ministry to follow-up, and the Left is impatient for results. To put it like this, where it's possible to put the spade in the ground, it should happen. We can't lose terrain. Delays and idolatrous projects do not believe when decisions have been taken. When it is to be built, operated and maintained for a 12-year period, none of the years should be budgeted below what is required to achieve targets. We know that the 2018 budget is a little below, but the list is added, and we have to go over to the next try. In the four largest cities, there have been – and have – major traffic problems and large greenhouse gas emissions. Through a spice layer with state, county municipality, municipality and not least the users, we are now taking clear action. Now it is to be planned and built Fornebubane in Oslo and Akershus, it is to be further built on the urban track in Bergen, metrobus in Trondheim and bus routes on the North Jären. Urban environment agreements and urban growth agreements are good for everyone. Socio-economic and climate-friendly, these agreements are absolutely necessary – and, in particular, they must be delivered. Car traffic shall be reduced, the number of bicycles, pedestrians and users of public transport shall be raised. At the same time, there are many who want to live in these areas, and increased mobility is expected to take place in these areas. This challenges the certainty of the measures. There must be more funding on the supply side of the country, so that local action can be implemented. But it is necessary to achieve the objectives. Greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced and local pollution, land use and other pressures on the population need to be reduced. Reward schemes are to be applied to effective actions and several urban regions have to participate in their own reward agreements with the country. The left is not at all opposed to all road construction, but we must not build unnecessarily and in competition with more environmentally friendly transport. Roads for business are very important. Fast and safe roads are a requirement for suppliers and craftsmen. I have to say that the new way of working is appealing to me when they point out too high a cost on a road project in relation to the benefits of society. At the same time, there are high expectations of improvements from users of this route. The road section I'm talking about is Melhus–Ulsberg in Trøndelag, where Nye Veier pointed out that it was clearly potential for improvement if you went in and corrected some expensive measures that were originally proposed. It has now been done, and it has become much higher on the priority list.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e645	No completed projects shall wait, the spade must be placed on the ground, said the representative. That's good. A co-ordinated Trendelag has worked hard to realize the electrification of the Trønder and Meråker tracks, including the representative Gunnes. The budgetary agreement between the cooperation parties states that: «the priority projects in the national transport plan adopted in June shall not be jeopardized». This applies, inter alia, to: the electrification of the Trønderbahn. Bane Nor says that if the project is not to be scrapped and postponed for many years, they need a decision to realise the project, and they need funds to continue today's project organisation. My question is: what promises can the Left make about the realisation of the project, and how does the Left believe that Bane Nor should interpret the proposal as supported by the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e659	Now I think it's actually this big one that determines when the electrification of the Tronderway is going to start. Unfortunately, we were unable – at least provisionally – to finance start-ups in 2018, because higher costs have been incurred that require a rounding to see what they are due to, and whether priorities need to be different. But clearly, in our remark, to specify it exactly, it's the NTP that applies. There the electrification shall be carried out on the Trønderbahnen and the Meråkerbahnen, and that is the case in the future, even in the first period of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e666	The left has had a great deal of success in the budget negotiations. We can see that from transfers to the railway. Nevertheless, in many places in the country, the railway is not an alternative. It's in and around the big cities the railway is a real alternative. The left has also not invested on the coast – not on ferries or on the Coast, fairways or fishing ports. Can the representative of the Left inform the Storting of what are the important rural initiatives of the Left in this budgetary unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e671	It is clear that there are many efforts in the original state budget that we are now just following up by agreeing on those priorities, and there are many good measures for the districts. And the left has, after all, been involved in broadband growth. We have been involved in increasing the budget for other aspects as well, on road construction and not least on rail – rail is also an important district infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e676	I'm happy to get a line on Gunnes from the Left, and I have to say that it's gonna cost to be in the budget. We've seen that, and it's going to cost even more to be in the government partners. Now the electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway has been mentioned several times, and in a way it was well sacrificed – I would say – by the Left in those negotiations. I saw in the alternative budget that the left had an electrification, and it disappeared during the budget negotiations. SV proposed 300 million. kr in its alternative budget, and that would have been sufficient. 200 million. kr, as the Left had suggested, was enough at least made. But when can the representative from the Left – Jon Gunnes – imagine that an electrification is coming, and how strongly will he give priority to it in a government debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e683	I don't think I'm at all going to advance government negotiations on what the Left is going to do and fight for, and what we're getting through. But on the part of Stortinget we should definitely follow up on the NTP. And the NTP clearly states that in the first period the electrification of the Tronderbahn and the Meråkerbahn should be completed. That's what we're dealing with, and we have a good hope that once you've clarified the real costs of this electrification, you actually get through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e688	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e694	In Norway, it will live around the world. 3 million inhabitants only in the eight Eastern countries in 2030 – a growth of almost 22pst. That's about. half a million people more than today. Development is clear, we are becoming more and more – many more. Population growth is strong, so we have to look forward to planning transport solutions. If we don't dimension the transport system in line with the forecasts, it just gets too tight about the place. We need to develop the transport system by building new ones, while at the same time taking care of what we have. That is why I am pleased that we have made a change of pace in our transport policy. We've gone from talk to action, we've gone from red-green action paralysis to a blue-green and yellow executive force. Now we have four years behind us where transport policy has been renewed and raised to a new level. The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have provided reforms, renewal, efficiency and not least more money. I am glad that we still have a majority that continues and reinforces the work being done. We're in the middle of an incredibly exciting development. To address challenges, inter alia: The transport system needs to be modernised in relation to road safety, capacity, environment and climate. We are meeting exciting times, where technological developments combined with policy initiatives will contribute to innovation, better supply and, above all, lower emissions. Then we should remember that modernisation is driven not only by politicians, but by technological driving forces and people's desire for new solutions. Autonomous vehicles and ITS will be important factors in the modernisation processes. Systems for the application of information and communication technologies in the road sector can significantly affect behaviour and improve transport solutions. New technological solutions can improve accessibility, road safety and lower emissions. There are many things I could draw up in the budget. But let me take some of the things that are most important to the Christian People's Party. More and more users are receiving the joy and benefit of the national TT scheme. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to provide better services to those users who especially need a transport service. That is why I am pleased with the impact of the Christian People's Party on extending the system. For visually impaired and wheelchair users, the national TT system is important in order to be able to live a normal and active everyday life. By means of the budget agreement, we ensure that we are on track for the escalation. I am very pleased that the red-green parties have clearly prioritised this in their alternative budget. Broadband and effective ICT systems are important and central to citizens and businesses throughout the country. The government's cut was disappointing, and it was necessary to increase the allocation of broadband through the budgetary agreement. Then the railway will be strengthened in this budget. An operationally stable and high-capacity infrastructure and train equipment capable of managing large transport flows is necessary to improve train provision. That's why it's good that we've got a solid stake there as well. A few words about the proposal of the Christian People's Party on Kjevikvejen and Rv. 9 Seatesdal. We need a rapid, coherent and effective development of Kjevikwegen and Rv. 9 Seatesdal. This is in line with the NTP leadership. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to have this fixed and adopted in the Greatness today. I hope that as much as possible join this decision that now seems to be able to have a majority. With regard to the vote of the Christian People's Party, we vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation to A. We are voting against the Committee's recommendation to B, and also against the minority proposals. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e723	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has drawn up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e730	It is nice to hear that the representative of Gruvan is pleased to have been allowed to participate in and implement the national transport plan promoted by the Stoltenberg II government in spring 2013, and I believe that the desire to create such a big distinction in terms of infrastructure investment may not be entirely correct in relation to reality. It is a pity that the Christian People's Party is not in the Committee on Transport, but in the position there is a note that the Workers' Party has been concerned about, together with the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, which is about the oil protection and environmental centre in Lofoten and the Western Sea. We wanted to stress the importance of the Centre, we wanted to say something about cooperation and dialogue with local and regional businesses, and I really want to talk about international ambitions for this Centre. Does the Christian People's Party wish to join the intention in the comment we have made?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e737	We are concerned that we have a strong and good oil protection system along the whole coast. This centre in Lofoten I know is of great importance and will be able to mean a lot, not least in view of the traffic that is along our coast, which poses a great danger to many vulnerable areas. So we're concerned that this is realized in a proper, good and predictable way, in order to take care of the coast in an even more predictable way than what you can do today without such a center.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e742	The working party is committed to facilitating express bus routes in Norway. I also believe that the representative of Groevan is, and as a representative from Sørlanden, he knows very well how important the express buses are in the overall collective offer in Norway. As we have also mentioned earlier, we have proposed that a system of social discounts should also be introduced on express bus routes, as is the case with other public transport. Today's Business a few days ago, the Count comments on the proposal, and as today's Business says, and as the Count confirms, the Christian People's Party is deciding that question today. I now understand at Gruvan that the Christian People's Party will not vote for the proposal that the express bus industry and the industry themselves say would be a very good contribution to strengthening the express bus routes. Why is the Christian People’s Party against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e749	The Christian People's Party is concerned with the role and function of express bus routes. We have followed with concern the developments we have had with lower passenger numbers over the last few years. We also expressed this concern very clearly in our comments on the national transport plan, in which we also ask the government to come back with proposals for measures on how to participate and to provide a better framework for these buses to remain important collective services in the future on longer distances. So we have a clear expectation that the government will come back with this. We've also got a calculation of what this is going to cost: 175 million. kr, says the NHO, if you want to be able to fully compensate for the discounts here. Then it becomes a budgetary question, and therefore it was difficult for us to go into this proposal now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e756	Forwarding the post is a glossary, and the post should become more digital. In the budgetary agreement between the Government Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, something more was put in for broadband expansion in the districts, but at a very close distance to what is needed to ensure that everyone joins the digital world web we're talking about. What are the plans of the Christian People's Party, and when does the Christian People's Party see that everyone in Norway will share in the digital future that we are now building?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e763	Broadband investment is an important measure in which the State should also have a responsibility, precisely in order to be able to participate and cover not only those parts of the country that are commercially viable but the whole country. We have contributed to the increase in appropriations in this agreement that we have been involved with the Government Parties and the Left. We have doubled it in relation to the government's proposals, we have increased it in relation to the 2017 allocation, and then we see that we need to do this further in order to achieve the goals that we set ourselves when discussing the Digital Agenda message in the previous period. So we see that we're on our way. We're concerned that the state should contribute, and then we also need to cooperate with commercial actors in order to be able to participate and give a further push and get a growth in broadband development that will allow us to put the whole country into use in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e768	I wonder what is the Christian People's Party and the representative Gruvan's definition of a good broadband. Is it 4 MB, 30 MB or 100 MB?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e773	Here, there might be different definitions underlying it. We're busy getting to a broadband that can be nationwide, i.e. that there should be a broadband that can be used both for the private population and for the industries across the country. As evolution is now, it's clear that the width of the broadband means more and more. I don't think we can say we're satisfied until in the next few years we can talk about a broadband at a level that's close to 100 MB if we're going to meet the needs that business not least asks for. So I see that this has to be done step by step. We can't do everything at once, but it's important that we now show that we want to expand. We want to expand the whole country, and we want to provide a capacity that meets the needs and demands of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e781	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e786	Let me say thank you to the Stortinget for a good treatment and a good majority for the state budget for 2018. It is important to get a good infrastructure in place, both physical and digital. It's about a better travel day, we're strengthening the competitiveness of business, we're strengthening digital infrastructure, so everyone has access and can sit anywhere in the country and work and communicate, and it's about good postal services across the country – a country that's relatively sparsely populated, but has a diverse business structure, where we live in many places, both densely packed in cities and liberally in the districts. It is important that we are able to have an infrastructure adapted to that diversity. Access to infrastructure, accessibility, universal design and TT service is an important part of this, and there it happens very well. The government also cooperates well with a broad range of organisations to help solve the challenges. We need money, we need good organization, we need technology development, and we need skilled professionals in public agencies and private companies to solve this. There has been a great deal of progress in the last four years, and the budget that is now being adopted facilitates that development. There are some main priorities that have been taken into account all along. We need to take care of what we have. The decline that increased year after year under the red-green government, we have now stopped and turned around. Road and path have almost experienced a double in appropriations. In the coastal area, one expects to remove the aftermath of technical installations by 2023. Especially within the tunnel there is a large and strong bet, but also within the bridge area, which has been much debated lately, is now overdue. It is important to ensure the presence of a maintainer. Particular attention is paid to road traffic diversion, but also to alternative rail transport. I record that someone claims that it is being cut in racial protection. That's not right. It's also not true when the central part gives the impression that it's being cut on the county roads. The local economy has not been better in many decades, and the allocation has increased by hundreds of percent compared to the level of the Senterpartiet and the Workerspartiet. That there's still a decay in some states is absolutely correct. Let me then remind you that when the Central Party and the Workers' Party ruled the country, the highways also expired. Now we've stopped it. The municipal elections in 2019 can also reverse this in the counties. We also need to build new, better, cheaper, more long-term and with a holistic, long-term approach where we don't save our lives. I was recently opening the E18 Örje – riksgrensen, and got comments from almost all local politicians that what was built just 10–15 years ago is now in poor condition and has too poor capacity. We can't do that kind of road construction. That's why it's good to see that the State Road Administration at Helgeland delivers the longest road project ever had. Many, many miles are built, and with very good response. This is why it is good when the Road Administration’s local contractors work on Rv. 9 in Agder thinks completely – build out one and one distance, but all the way considering what to come and where to go. It is important to have cost control over many phases. Cost control of projects is generally good once they have been adopted. The reports show that the Road Administration and also the Railways are within what to do in terms of governance frameworks and cost frameworks, but we still have a job to do in terms of planning processes. There we see opportunities to make significant improvements. The job that Vegvesenet and New Roader have done in looking at E6 in Gudbrandsdalen gives hope. It's about $4.3 billion. Now you're assuming that by doing it in a new way, you could come down to 3 billion. kr. The same job they do on the E16 against Kongsvinger. We saw here that the Vegvesen has gone through Hordfast, the Møreaksen project and others and can cut considerable billions. New roads show that one through the contracts that have been concluded saves billions in Bamble and Hedmark and seems to be able to do so in Trondheim. In addition, we have almost four or five times the appropriations for planning, which allows the authorities to plan longer and think more about how to do it. It's a little interesting when some opposition parties say we have to give even more money for planning. Well, comparing one to the story, we have nothing to be ashamed of. I am also very pleased that the toll ratio is gradually falling, both through increased government appropriations in the budget and through the national transport plan submitted. However, it seems to me that the opposition has gone into the luxury trap – they protest every time we want to spend time reducing costs, and they promise a pile of new road and rail projects to which they themselves do not have funding. It's the best way to make sure that public agencies can't work rationally and efficiently, the best way to make sure that the market doesn't know what to do with, when all projects appear to be as important, and no one knows who's really going to get money. The working party has added 200 million. promise to start ten different railway projects. Only in Trøndelag, they promise 160 million. of the 200 million. kr shall be placed on the Tronder Railway. Then we know that there's a lot of fantasy going on here. Entrepreneurs are an important part of this. Building the country is also about creating jobs. I am very pleased when I see that in 2017 98 pst is going. of the contracts to Norwegian contractors, as opposed to 78 pst. the last three years the red-green fell. We also know that the majority of those who work on the projects are Norwegians. Besides, it's mostly Scandinavian. It is important that we have an orderly labour market, that we take care to combat the crime of working life, and that we facilitate apprentices. There's a good setup and a good follow-up in our agencies. Traffic safety is heading in the right direction – the best year since the war, it seems to be, the best in the world. This is due to improved maintenance and long-term bets in terms of driving skills, vehicle control and the fact that the Road Service is now working even better in terms of anti-crime. The crime unit that we have recently established ensures that a fight against fraud involves both driving licence training, car repairs, transport services, etc. We have doubled control of heavy-duty vehicles – better tools, stricter rules and the use of wheel locks – and we are working on legislative design both nationally and, not least, internationally. Recently, one of my State Secretarys was in Brussels and was once again talked to parliamentarians about being able to make demands for winter competence. Now it looks like we're starting to get through. On the cabotage side, we work hard with the Road Alliance in many European countries and ensure that cabotage is not liberalised, but gets more orderly forms. We also have a strong commitment to goods on the railways. It seems that some in the opposition have not brought it, but for the first time, there is actual money in the national transport plan to bet on goods on rail – 18 billion. kr. We also have a significant investment to get goods on the keel. It also seems that the opposition has forgotten. There's a bet for the second consecutive years, and the experience is very good. Overall, this indicates an even stronger level of road safety. There's a significant investment in the cities. Yes, good roads and railways build the country and are important for the districts. We spend a lot of money buying transport services, both on trains, on ferries, on aircraft and on the Hurtigruten. However, it is also important to provide good urban transport services. It is a bit strange to hear criticism that there is too little investment when, after all, the budget has been four–fivefold during today’s government, and the biggest cities now can actually afford to start the major infrastructure projects. In addition to the record value of the municipal economy, the state provides bonuses through the 50-50 scheme, the reward scheme, etc. In this there is also a strong bet on bicycle paths. I am recording that the red-green-steered Trondheim says no to being part of the competition for getting money for so-called expressive travel. I do not think that is consistent with the criticism that has emerged here today. On the environmental side, there is also a broad commitment. Everything from car fleet to collective investment for railway operations, cycling, support for ports, for green shipping, for freight, for the development of hydrogen ferries, the purchase of battery ferries, the construction of charging stations, shore power, etc. Today, the statistics from the SSB show that emissions are falling for another year. It's not like SV gives the impression that no one cares. On the contrary, we care. We're not filling the country with diesel cars, as we saw under the previous government, now we're filling the country with zero-emission cars. I'm proud of that. So it's important to have a bet on the digital. Because although transport is often about building roads and railways and how to transport them, we know that digital infrastructure is becoming increasingly important. There is also a strong bet, even though the opposition is trying to give the opposite idea. There is an increase in the budget that the government provided for 2018 compared to 2017, and there is a further increase in the Storting. I think that is also good, because this is not just about the subsidy scheme for the development of fibre in the districts. It is about facilitating an alternative core network, security and preparedness in the digital infrastructure that exists, the development of broadband in districts, but also the development of broadband and fibre abroad. There's a net increase, not a decrease. This means that we can both develop business and make it possible for people to live where they want to, but also facilitate business activity, such as data centres, etc. I also recall that the main effort on digital infrastructure in Norway is not about subsidies from the state, but about commercial players who invest. There's been a growth of 7 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr with today's government, among others because the legislation has been improved. Where the industry said that the Senter party's last proposal before they left the government was a death kiss for the industry, it was now a general cheer for the changes in the rules we made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e827	The transport sector is a major contributor to greenhouse gas emissions. When examining the national transport plan, it was fully in line with – I believe all parties recognised the issue – that the transport sector must take a substantial part in the responsibility and that policy needs to be reformed in order to meet our climate commitments. The budget for the first year of the planning period for the national transport plan is now adopted. My question is simply: how much will the greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector fall in 2018 as a result of the budget adopted this evening?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e832	With the appropriations in place, there will be a strengthening of the community effort in cities and a strengthening of the opportunities for walking and cycling activity. In the case of rail, there is a strengthening of the transport of goods in environmentally friendly forms and there is a further development of the overall framework conditions for driving emission-free cars. Look at the car sales so far this year, compared with the same time last year, emissions per kilometer have dropped by 7 grams. It's pretty significant. So even if I can't give a concrete number – it's hard to predict the future – all indications indicate that emissions will continue to go down. I think that's good, because the emissions went up under the red-green government. Now we see that they're going down, through a good budget. I will continue to do that, because it's good, both in terms of the commitments we're going to reach internationally, and in terms of those who live and work along roads and along the railways and the like, that the environmentally harmful emissions are being reduced and eventually eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e839	It was a little hard to answer, I understand, so we'll get back to it later. I'm gonna change the theme. The Minister for Transport said in his speech that the maturity of bridges will stop with the budget that is now being adopted. I find that strange, because in answer to budget questions 898 from Stortinget, the department answers: ‘It must therefore be expected that for some road objects, the maintenance run will increase, e.g.: bridges, road equipment, drainage systems and environmental measures.» What is right – the Minister of Transport just said from the Chair that this budget will stop the downfall on the bridges, or what the Ministry has written to the Stortinget, that the maintenance of bridges will increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e851	Note that there were some words before what the representative Myrli said now, namely that the decay of some objects will increase. It doesn't mean total set. When we talk to the Vegvesen, they say that a combined set can now say that the decay on the bridges is no longer increasing. That doesn't mean that the decay goes down on all the bridges. That's it right there. So collectively, we've seen that the maturity decreases under today's government. On the way it is lower now than when we took over, and on the railway it is lower now than when we took over. It is contrary to the experience of the eight years of the representative Myrlis party in government. Then the maturity had increased as they left the government, compared to when they went in. In this it is that there are still some bridges that are in poorer condition, but overall there is no increase in the maturity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e858	Last year's state budget saw a new transformation on the track, namely phase shift. This year, this was used to reduce government transfers to several road projects. It is claimed by multiple parties that this does not have any meaning for the progress of the projects in question. The solution then – as it was last year – will be to phase in the bomb kills earlier. At the same time, we hear from the government that the toll section is going down, which is also supported by the Center Party. What does the Council of State think about bombing, which has now been the Progress Party and the government's solution for rapid road development? Does the Council have a plan for how to cut toll funding, as the party has said they will get rid of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e865	Let's look at the figures: when the Senterpartie took over the government offices in 2005, the toll percentage was on average on road projects of about 30-32 pst. When they went out, this was increased to over 40 pst. This suggests that the Senter Party was not very concerned with reducing the toll percentage or the level of toll. I represent a party that has been passed through a government platform for the toll percentage to go down. Now we're under 40 pst. again. Developments have gone in that direction. Taking in tolls a little earlier in a project, and then the government appropriations come a little later, doesn't change the proportion. It just changes at the time. Now we have to make sure that the big thing doesn't get confused. This does not mean changing the overall financing assumptions. It just changes the time at which this happens. Not only do we ensure that the state shares when projects are adopted are slightly adjusted down on some projects. We also need to ensure that there is a majority in the Storting to grant money to cut the toll share in existing projects. Then it's a little strange to see that the opposition is against those toll cuts, while they criticize the Progress Party for not getting cut even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e874	The centre part is not against the toll cuts that have been inserted. We're actually supporting it. But one of the expansions that are now strongly phased is phase 2 for E6 in Gudbrandsdalen. Traffic figures show that traffic rejection from new E6 over to old E6 is far above what was prescribed. The toll collar is not as it had been inserted that it should be. This is largely because phase 2, which was to be fully financed by the state, is not in place, and they are paying now for a road section that is only half of what it was put up to. E6 in the Gudbrand valley, as the Council of State also noted, shows that it can be built cheaper, and that is positive. But will the Council of State follow this up with something other than the play that came during the election campaign this summer, and actually meet the spokesmen in the Gudbrand valley, who have now asked for a meeting with the Council of State to find progress in the development of the final phase of the E6 Gudbrand valley?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e883	I want to build the four-field highway from Oslo to Trondheim. It's a goal I have, and that means we're also going to build through the Gudbrand valley. At the same time, when a road project increases by 112 pst. in terms of costs, it is at least natural for me to make sure that we go through the project and see how we can bring the costs down. I have recorded that for the opposition, this has been just nonsense to do, because one has just criticized it when we've done it. I think that's right and important. When we said this summer that we wanted New Roads and Vegvesenet to make new calculations, I registered that the Workers' Party, both locally and centrally, believed that this was just nonsense to do. I am pleased that they have now changed their mind when they see that it was actually worth the time and that rapporteurs and local politicians are involved in this. So yes, I'm going to meet those rapporteurs, even if they made fun of this when it was a discussion theme this summer. I want to sit down and work constructively with everyone who wants to build more roads. With both those at Stortinget, those who are local politicians, and not least with entrepreneurs and business people, we will be looking constructively for solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e893	It has been estimated, as I mentioned in my main post, that the free E39 currently has a cost of a staggering 340 billion. kr. When we see the tremendous technological advances in ferry technology, with the phase-in of perhaps 60 quieter, more pleasant elfers around 2021, we would think that the government would start asking some questions. Perhaps even more questions arise when the truck drivers say that they are much more concerned with the narrow and dangerous roads between the ferries than with the fjord crossings themselves? Is it such that the Council of State is now starting to reconsider some of the tumultuous plans of the Free E39? Or does he feel that he has painted himself up in a corner, that it is difficult to get away from it? Or is he now rethinking in the light of the major technological developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e898	I think technological developments are fantastic. In a few years, yes in a few decades at least, all road traffic is likely to be emission-free. I think SV should take this with me when they are against road construction today because it can lead to emissions from today's fossil cars. What's going to run on these roads is going to be emission-free. What you get from ferry technology is certainly going to be done for heavy transport, private cars, buses, etc. That's the perspective SV should have. I'm very concerned that we're going to build roads across the country, but I'm noticing that the opposition is cracking up a lot. That SV wants more of, it cuts the center part of. That center part wants more, it cuts SV in. It's no wonder that there was a lot of paralysis under the previous government when we see how huge a crack it is in what you actually want. I am very pleased that, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, we are able to find a direction to go in both the national transport plan and in the budgets. There's good reason to think we're going to bring down the cost of the fjord crossings when they get free. One thing is the stage of transport, the other is flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e905	I have to explain a little bit about the effort that the NTP has actually told you to do for bike paths in Trondheim. There is no disagreement among all in the majority of the environmental package. There is also a Christian People's Party, Right and Left – and we are very much in favour of the NTP being fulfilled. So don't listen to anyone who speaks out in that matter. What is my question concerns the implementation rate of the NTP. We have 12 years, and it's quick to get back. How does the Council of States rate forward now? Is it so that there'll be room for it pretty soon? And not least in the first period, which we consider to be until 2023, how does the Council of State see it going to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e912	We – the four batches – spent a lot of time creating a national transport plan that was realistic. We had a lot of things we wanted to do, but at the same time we had to give priority. We didn't have the luxury that we saw, for example. The working party had, which put in road projects for 50 billion. kr, funded them by 5 billion. NOK, and sold them in the campaign as if everyone were to be realized immediately. That's why I have good reason to believe that when we actually made real priorities, we're going to get to our national transport plan. But there are some assumptions here. First, it is that the local regulatory plan and good cooperation work, second, that the entrepreneurship industry is able to deliver new developments and has enough capacity, and thirdly, that we are able to keep costs down. That's what makes us have a discussion about the Trunder Railway – not if we're going to improve it, but about how fast we can get going while keeping the budgets. We can't afford to go into the luxury trap that the other opposition does, and just say that you have to have everything, without caring about price tag. At the end of the day you can't afford much.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e920	The means of walking and cycling under the reward schemes have in no way been used up in the last two years – as the Riksrevision has also pointed out. Will the Council of State ensure that the State Road Service will put in place the necessary procedures for the use of the money allocated for their use and guarantee that what is now allocated for 2018 will be used in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e925	I'll do the best I can for that. We are very aware both of what the Riksrevision has said, and of our own ambition to build a more bicycle path. I'm an avid cyclist myself. I think I've logged about 4,000 miles a year that's gone by. I am concerned that the infrastructure where I am should be good. I don't think there are any of the road users who know better about bad asphalt and dangerous situations than the cyclists. At the same time, we can be quite proud of what we have done. There has been a sharp increase in cycling activity over the past four years compared to the past four years. What the Riksrevision has pointed out relates to the support system that the Christian People's Party and the Left have fought in. There, the money is not used up to the extent that they were supposed to. It's a little bit about inertia in the system. When municipalities apply for money, applications should be processed and assessed against others. Then you get approval, and then the players first go into the market, get contracts that are binding, and the money starts to go out. It's often a time horizon that makes them not necessarily paid out the same fiscal year they're granted. It's a challenge, but at the same time it has a natural explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e931	I want to go back to my first line on greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. I am somewhat surprised that the Minister for Transport had no answer to my question about how much emissions from the transport sector will fall next year. I thought it was now such that the governance and management of calculated greenhouse gas increases or emissions, i.e. the impact on the greenhouse gas accounts of different projects and different actions that are being undertaken. When the transport sector is so central to achieving the national and international climate obligations, I am somewhat surprised that it is clearly not. Is it the case that the Minister for Transport is only somewhat uncertain about the number – I fully understand it – or is it actually such that the climate impacts are not calculated for the different measures to be implemented in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e938	As I was in my answer, emissions are now actually going down. The trend is going in the right direction. If the concern of the representative Myrli is that the emissions are going to rise, that one is not working to reduce them, there is no reason. It'll be a little bit like the pyromaniac that criticizes the fire department. The previous government experienced an increase in emissions. Today's government is experiencing a reduction in emissions. This is due, inter alia, to: the long list of measures both in cities, on rail and on shipping with regard to the Vegetarian ferry and which we are now seeing the outcome of. When over 50-60 ferries are going to have battery packs on board, it is a fantastic development that it has been a bit difficult to predict. When thousands of Norwegians are waiting to buy electric cars, it indicates that people embrace the environmentally friendly technology – I think that’s very good. We're going to strengthen and continue this work. In the national transport plan, we have outlined that if the impact of our policies is what we want, we will have an emission reduction of over 50 pst. on road transport. We're going to achieve the Paris goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e948	Norway is a long country. Roads, railways, ports and airports help to bind this country together and are essential for the development of business. The aim of the Workers' Party is for the whole country to be put into service. With a good infrastructure, you can live all over Norway, and we can use our natural resources. For the Workers' Party, our transport policy is based on: increased accessibility, improved traffic safety and improved environmental considerations. Climate challenges require robust construction of the transport infrastructure and the strengthening of maintenance and race and pace management. Norway is not just a long-distance country. Norway also has a very long coast. The sea has built our national welfare, through fishing and fishing for marine species, through the development of oil and gas production and extraction. In view of this success, Norway should be increasingly committed to the development of ports and fairways. Unfortunately, the sitting Right-wing Party government has deliberately deprived port objectives by halving grants to municipal fishing ports. This is a post that helps and helps municipalities to expand their municipal fishing ports. There's a big search for the funds, $217 million. kr for 2017. It means projects worth twice the amount of funds requested because the municipalities contribute 50 pst. But the down-priority doesn't stop there. The appropriations for the Coastal Plant have a real decline and very few fishing ports can be completed or expanded. For the Workers' Party, it is very difficult to understand that the government does not facilitate what will be our main source of income in the years to come. The fishing industry is one of the main export industries for oil and gas. In recent years, industry has been growing well. The fishing industry consists of a varied fleet in size, bringing in land large quantities of raw material to the agricultural industry. In order to facilitate the fishing industry, deeper ports, moles, safe fairways and floating bridges are needed. It looks like construction works that don't seem, as port development is, are down-prioritized by this government. The Labour Party is betting on the sea and wants to facilitate a better offer in our ports. Therefore, in 2018, the Workers' Party will start developing and planning the fishing ports of Andenes, Kjøllefjord, Fosnav, Kalvåg, Kamøvær and Svalbard, as well as repairing the fairway in Farsund. The size has decided that a greater proportion of goods should be transferred from road to sea. The Workers' Party follows up this Decision and reinforces it by providing more funds to the aid scheme for road-to-sea freight transfers. If Norway is to invest in its sea areas, there will be a growing need for efficient and environmentally friendly transport. That's one of the objectives of the Workers' Party. The right-hand party government deprioritises the coast, and it is both unfortunate and short-sighted. The Workers' Party, like the Government, does not wish to transfer responsibility for the development of fishing ports to each region. The Coast Guard Station has received the government's steering signal and signalled the slowdown of its activity in the area. It is the Coastal Agency that has competence in the field of port development and deepening. The working party fears that the competence in this area is confusing, and believes that the Coastal Plant is the best place to take care of this area. It will ensure that the country as a whole is developed, and that there is a national idea behind the decisions. When the funds are not allocated to the Coastal Works, but to the regions, and not to the ear, it is likely that the battle for the development of ports and fairways in the coastal country of Norway will become even more difficult. The clear position of the working party is that the system of State financing for the development of fishing ports should be continued. It is a national responsibility that the Norwegian coast has good and safe ports, fairway managers who are safe, and an infrastructure for those who have their work at sea and who contribute to more value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e976	Norway is a country with great potential, a good country to live in and wealth is more distributed than in many other countries. Since we found and took up oil in 1969, the country has undergone enormous changes in society as a result of economic and technological developments. It is visible in many areas – including transport and communication. But priorities are getting tougher in the future, and we need to be even more aware of results and how to make better use of resources, get the most possible exchange of the funds we invest. We need to make smarter choices and think about new things in a society that is constantly changing. The government's historical commitment to transport measures, road, rail, collective solutions, was strong in the previous ageing period and continued for the next four years. As one spokesperson from one of the opposition parties said to me, ‘Just before transportation, I have to admit that this government has delivered.’ It has been and will still be one of the big bet areas of the government. A lot is happening on the road side, and it is not very rare that one has to stop for traffic lights due to work – and it does one with pleasure. It is easy to defend that we use a lot of resources on transportation. It is important for the development of rural and labour regions throughout the country, and many rightly claim that transport and infrastructure construction are the main means of regional policy. When the business community was asked what was the most important tool for creating more jobs, the answer was very often: put more on transportation. The business community expressed frustration that transportation took too much time from planning to construction, which was clumsy and less holistic. Now we feel that the government is getting credit for a lot of road and track events, and that the maintenance run is being reduced year after year. The establishment of the road company New Vegar has proved to be a success. It shows that one can build roads more efficiently and reduce costs, and one gets more holistic development. It is surprising that the Labour Party is cutting in favour of a company that has already achieved efficiency gains in terms of project costs and time use. It is interesting that SV suggests the creation of New Tracks, according to the same model as New Vegar. It was in the year 370 years since the Danish warden Hannibal Sehested created The Royal Norwegian Post Office. There have been many miles for the Post over these years. One of the largest was probably the closure of about 1,000 post offices in the 1990s and the creation of Post in Store in 2001. The government is busy facilitating an equivalent supply of high-quality basic postal services and high-quality electronic communications services and at reasonable prices across the country. It's important for business and people, especially in the districts. The size has determined that it should be post-distribution five days a week. The post has been through a great transformation since the millennial shift. Today there are 30 post offices left, while we have 1 300 Post in Store. It's a service that cuts a lot of customer satisfaction. The post held a good presentation to the Committee on 27 November, in which they presented the challenges facing the Post in relation to universal service obligations. In 2000, there were 1.7 billion shipments, while this year there were 700,000, and one expected further decline. We also record that several countries are implementing changes as a result of developments. The post asks for clearer mandates, as they see that the loss of revenue is increasing by continuing to fall in the volume of letters. The time has come, many think maybe inability, to evaluate changes, and it's with satisfaction I refer to the proposition where the government writes that a follow-up is accurate, and that the department now gets to work out alternative service levels in the universal service and consequences for the government's purchase of postal and banking services. We look forward to receiving feedback from the Department. I want to use the opportunity to give credit to the Post, which has a forward-looking approach to the reality of digitization and a falling letter volume. They are offensive and see the need for change. Then it is important that Stortinget gets a case in which a clear framework for the Post that is adapted to the time we live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1006	Good infrastructure and communication is a pillar for the development of the Norwegian welfare society. It is simply one of the most important elements to ensure business and jobs around the country. 2018 is the first year of adopted NTP – which is the bet and uplift of the times for the transport sector. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the government is following up on the investment in the NTP, with appropriations in the 2018 budget, in line with expected escalation. The government has provided a historic investment in traffic and increased the appropriations by 60 pst. since 2013. Never before has it been so hard to maintain what we have, while building new and modern infrastructure. The effort to reduce the maintenance run and to improve the provision of the infrastructure we have has been very important. We now see clear results from this. The slowdown is falling, the road standard is increasing every year, and we are getting safer and safer roads to transport goods to the market and not least our children safely to school and leisure activities. Unfortunately, under the previous government, there was an increase in the number of people on the road year after year. In addition to new infrastructure and reduced maintenance kits on existing infrastructure, the government has implemented important measures to make better use of the resources in the sector. New roads are a good example of contributing to more efficient road development, and already show that clear savings can be made in road development without jeopardising quality. Preliminary calculations for New Roads show a total savings of 30 billion. kr in their allocated portfolio. It shows that the establishment of the company was a proper act, which will ensure that we get more weight for each fund, while at the same time managing taxpayers' money in a better and more sensible way. The story of New Veger is already a success story. The government's efforts to reform the toll sector and reduce the toll burden will save the cars for half a billion in tolls. This is what we do as road investment increases. It is therefore gratifying that the State budget for 2018 grants a grant of 516 billion. to reduce toll tariffs outside urban areas. In the last four years, toll growth has been reduced by the closure of a number of toll stations, increased government shares in projects and reduced fares in projects outside the major urban areas. I strongly disagree that the level of tolls is still high, but I know that it would be significantly higher if the Progress Party had not been in government and the red-greens had been allowed to continue their policies. If we are to use the whole country, the government’s commitment to broadband is important – and crucial for increased digitisation and future growth and well-being. This government has for the first time lifted electronic communications into the NTP. This shows how high we are prioritizing and should give priority to echoes in the future. In 2013, Liv Signe Navarsete, as a municipal minister, stated that it was important to start developing broadband as quickly as possible in order to avoid a digital class distinction between city and district. Fortunately, the government has removed the digital class distinction that was created under the red-green government. There are not always significant increases in government appropriations that are necessary to advance digital development. Modifying the digging regulations reduces costs by significant amounts, which means that the money goes to a greater extent and we get more high-speed broadband than before. The change in the award criteria seems more targeted in order to expand broadband in those areas of the country that are not commercially profitable. The broadband development aid scheme has already been evaluated, in August of this year, and the evaluation clearly shows that the scheme is broadly operational. The grant scheme has led to more broadband development in districts. The evaluation report also shows that the grant scheme has slightly displaced private investment. It has worked for too few years to see a positive impact on population development, jobs or industrial development in the grant municipalities. On the other hand, positive effects on the production of digital municipal services have been demonstrated. Investments in ecosystems and ecosystems services have increased significantly since 2013. It clearly shows that government policies and solutions are working and as the evaluation shows: the state contributes funds to broadband development in areas without a basis for commercial investment, and the industry itself invests private capital where it is profitable. In my home country, Finnmark, which is defined by many as districts, we have marked the digital class division under the red-green. Now we've got a 4G and broadband coverage full of the rest of the country. We're removing the digital class division.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1037	Imagine a day without the Internet. The government and Finance Minister Siv Jensen have promised us increased digitisation. That's good, but for many in the districts it's more a threat than a promise. The representative Strifeldt looked through quite pink glasses when he referred to the broadband split instead. The effort to expand broadband should be doubled. Instead, the government provided a budget where it was halved to 69.7 million. kr. With that amount it would take more than 80 years to finance the expansion. The cooperation parties have negotiated the amount somewhat, but this is what we in the Center Party will call a weak bet on broadband development where it is not commercially profitable to expand the digital infrastructure. During consultations related to the State budget, many, such as NHO, KS, different county municipalities and different technology environments, have been very concerned about the government’s large reduction in broadband development grants — item 71, chapter 1380. Although the current aid scheme is very bureaucratic, over the last four years more than 2.4 billion have been applied for. kr for broadband development outside commercially profitable areas. The state allocation over the same four-year period has been about One-half billion, that's just one-fifth of the requested amount. It shows that there is an enormous need for an increase in state subsidies, not a reduction. Both municipalities and municipalities stand on and set up to provide good digital opportunities for all citizens. They are also involved in and finance the expansion. Last year 17 applications for funds for broadband expansion were sent from Northern Ireland. Only four of them were granted. Saltdal, the municipality I come from, will offer all branches broadband. But no, even if young people move there, they should not be allowed to participate in the digital agenda. From Hedmark, 43 applications were sent. 33 of them were rejected. Only 40 of 142 projects were supported last year. I see no technical justification behind the government's original proposal to halve broadband support. I think of it as political priorities. The Christian People's Party would like to give the whole country 100 MB. Then they have probably chosen the wrong partner, because Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen believes that 4 MB is enough to have satisfactory coverage. It's adding the list very low. 90 pst. the population shall have 100 MB in the long term. This is a development of parallel societies where the boundary goes between those that are going to have 4 MB and those that are going to have 100 MB. I think it's a pity to report. St. 27 for 2015–2016, Digital Agenda for Norway, has a target of only 90 pst. by the population. The Centre Party will spend half a billion on broadband development grants in its alternative budget. The reason we put the ceiling there is that it is the maximum amount that the EEA Agreement allows Norway to use on broadband subsidies. Here too, we see that the EEA Agreement limits freedom of action and political priorities. Development is fast, and it's important that everyone joins. Centralisation seems to be job number one for this government. One day without the Internet can be a perfect day, but then it must be voluntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1060	Now I've heard a lot of posts from the pulpit here – where representatives from the Right and the Advance Party talk about the eight red-green years and compare them to the last four. It might sound like they're still in 2013, I think that's a little forward-looking, and it's actually going to be completely wrong. To compare, one actually has to deal with the same framework conditions, with the same economic assumptions and the different alternative budgets. Then first one will see the difference in the priorities. Taxes are still the government's main project, while in the Workers' Party we feel there is a greater need for us to build the country together. This state budget is the first after treatment of new NTPs. In the NTP, the Workers' Party proposed to increase the financial envelope by 7 billion. kr more than the government of the 12-year period. In the 2018 budget position, we are 535 million. D on the government's proposals. For the future, climate and environmental pollution is our main challenge, and transport is the largest source of climate emissions in Norway. It's 31 pst. of all climate emissions. As of 1990, emissions have increased by 24 pst. We must therefore challenge, think new and stimulate to achieve the climate goals. We therefore want to support new environmentally friendly technologies and fuels by extending government grant schemes, for example: hydrogen. The climate also gives more extreme weather, which in turn gives more race and pace. So we're proposing to increase the pot to secure highways. Then I have to get into big cities: infrastructure and collective services need to be considerably strengthened to achieve the goal of taking all population growth with collective, bicycle and times. We therefore propose that the State contribute up to 70 pst. of the investment costs of large collective development in metropolitan areas. In addition, we believe that the government should entrust transport modes with the task of assessing an extension to several cities, the effects it can have, as well as the additional costs of such an extended system. Then I have to get back to the district. We say 'city and land hand in hand'. Our county roads have had bad conditions under this government. The aftermath on the county roads is now estimated at between 70 and 90 billion. kr. It does not help to say that the county council has increased the scope; the cost growth and the tasks have eaten up these frames, and so it is, so the action space is actually significantly weakened. That's 50 pst. greater risk of serious damage or death per kilometer of road driving on the county road network than on the national road network. Our natural resources are in the district, and the infrastructure consists mainly of rural roads. We have to make the county municipalities better able to be good road owners. In our alternative budget, we're going to grant 1 billion. kr more to county councils this year – as we have done in previous years. Several articles in the VG in November have highlighted the state of the bridges on our national and county roads, but also focused on the follow-up by the State Road Service to procedures related to the control of the bridges. It appears that the tunnel safety regulation has changed the priorities, and this is serious. We therefore propose that the Government, at the latest in the context of the revised budget for 2018, present a case to the Grand Duchy of Norway on the state and measures for the national and county road bridges. Finally, new road projects are now being announced as large packages, cost growth is high, and road construction disputes have tripled in a few years. The construction industry is concerned, both with the entry into competition law and with the talks of the government with China. Norwegian jobs, competences and security are threatened. Here, we need to take national action, pursue a comprehensive policy and not least have transparency about the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1077	The state budget for 2018 is a budget for economic growth, more in jobs and a sustainable welfare society. The government has managed Norway safely over a demanding period of time. Now there's good growth in the economy, and more vacant hands are coming to work, so we're going to have room to bet on welfare. To ensure well-being, we need to create more profitable jobs, get better quality and more well-being out of every taxpayer we use. That is why we continue to modernise the public sector, convert the Norwegian economy and build infrastructure. From the day one, the government has invested heavily in transportation, and the bet continues. The budget has increased by 60 pst. since its accession. This has been necessary because the previous government did not take advantage of the large space of action it had at record oil prices. The government proposes an increase in the 2018 transport budget that is in line with the acceleration proposed in the National Transport Plan. It is necessary to follow up the major ambitions contained in the plan. The railway reform ‘On the right track’ was adopted in the Stortinget in June 2015. The reform will strengthen rail competitiveness through clearer responsibilities, stronger customer orientation and more appropriate organisation. A more long-term funding will contribute to the more efficient development of the railway and the more predictable maintenance of the railway. The basis for the competitive outsourcing of the transport packages is now laid. Traffic package 1 South is bright in 2017, and the other tender packages will be rolled out continuously. We also have expectations that competition for the track will increase efficiency and offer travellers better. In this context, I would like to point out that in the proposal for amendments to the CAP budget, which we are dealing with in parallel with Prop. 1 S, provide a clear signal for the launch of two new railway projects in 2018. In the case of Sandbukta-Moss-Sostad in Eastfold, with a cost framework of 9,5 billion. kr and Venjar-Eidsvoll-Langset in Akershus, with a cost framework of 6,6 billion. kr. This means that important bottlenecks on the Eastfold and the Dovreban respectively are now being removed. The transport sector contributes to the green shift. Transport policy is therefore important for climate policy. The cuts we're going to do in the non-quota sector will have to be taken into circulation. Fortunately, we have a formidable technological development towards zero-emission technology. At the same time, public transport, bicycles and corridors are being put in place to reduce queues and emissions and increase road safety. With the right in government, emissions go down in both the quota and non-quota sectors. This shows that the government's policy is working. In the national transport plan 2018–2029, one of the main objectives is to help transport policy reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the transition towards a low-carbon society. The main contribution of the transport sector is through the use of new, environmentally friendly technologies. If we are to succeed in the green shift, it must be profitable, and values must be created. Therefore, we will use the market in the service of the environment. We will create a predictable climate policy framework and strengthen state support mechanisms to help companies develop and test new technologies. We will ensure that Norway is a leading country in the field of renewable energy, and we have an ambition for the transport sector to be free of emissions. The climate profile is enhanced by the reward scheme for public transport, more for rail operation and maintenance and increased subsidies to Enova. Population growth will in itself generate more transport. The need for goods and services will increase, including the number of work trips. It will be particularly important to meet the growing transport needs in an environmentally friendly way. Technological developments have been mentioned. Nutrient transport will use environmentally friendly fuels and thus reduce climate pressure. Another contribution to reducing the climate impact of the transport sector will be smart planning. The establishment of jobs, leisure activities and places of residence related to each other in such a way that they can be reached by public transport, bicycles or corridors becomes more important in the future. In this context, the reward system and urban environment and urban growth agreements are important instruments. These schemes shall stimulate better accessibility, environment and health in metropolitan areas by reducing the growth of passenger car transport, increasing the number of collective travel and stimulating cycling and walking.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1100	With the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, the Right-Fremskritsparte-government once again delivers a historically good budget for culture. In all four of the previous state budgets that we have presented, transport has been one of the winners, and this trend is continuing in this period. We have also taken more steps and started important reforms within, among other things. railway and road construction. We have carried out a complete reorganisation of Norwegian railways and established New Roads with the aim of reforming and streamlining Norway and ensuring that we get more and better traffic for each tax credit we use. We're launching the railway to get both a better and a cheaper offer to passengers. The experiences of the Gjøvik Railway, which were put on the market several years ago, are positive both for the NSB that used to tender and also for the passengers. It is strange to see that even such elementary and important reforms, which should have been launched many years ago, lead to great resistance from the left side of Norwegian policy. In Sweden, the reorganisation and launching of railway competition started 30 years ago, and even the left-hand side started that work. In addition to important reforms, we spend a lot of historical money on rail and transport. For railway development planning only, we're going to spend a total of 2.1 billion. kr. In road construction, New Wegener has contributed to a revolution. What New Roads do is not unique at all in an international context, but unfortunately the red-greens did not focus on the efficient, coherent and rational development of the main road network in Norway. That's why we've taken action, and that's why we've set up New Roads to show that it's actually possible to build faster, cheaper and better. New roads will complete a coherent network of four-field European roads significantly faster and a total of 30 billion. kr cheaper than we would be able to do by building in a traditional ‘red-green’ way, i.e. think short-term and build piecewise and divided year after year instead of continuous and complete. New Weier has been responsible for approx. 500 km of European roads. Overall in Norway there are between 90 000 and 100000 km of public roads. It is not realistic or politically desirable to give all of this to New Roads, but it is natural to look at how much of the national road network we can give to New Roads. There are a total of 10,000 km of highways in Norway, and if we are, for example, had doubled the portfolio of New Roads from 500 to 1000 km, it could theoretically save society for 60 billion. kr, the money that could have been used to continue building the country with better infrastructure, or better care for the elderly, or with tax relief for most people. This is important in order to provide us with a greater space for action in future state budgets, and that is why we want to roll New Wee's portfolio, and that is what we want to start in the current period. Better, safer and safer roads are also important for road safety. It is therefore gratifying to note that the Right Party Government focuses on building safe four-field motorways and re-establishing the maintenance launch. There are some of the factors that have contributed to the fact that we now have the lowest accident rates — including in the case of serious fatal accidents — in traffic since the 1940s and 1950s. Another area that is important for road safety, and not least for public health, is the construction of bicycle and pedestrian paths/passways. We also have a massive investment in the construction of bicycle and walking routes, in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and as the minister was in the past today, not even all the funds have been used up, so it is clear that there is a success. We grant a lot of money, to the pleasure of anyone who wants to ride and go, but the need is still great. What is then important to point out – in order to be able to get more traffic-proof roads and to ensure that vulnerable road users – is that the Right-Fremskrit Party government, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, has made it clear to the counties and municipalities that along their own roads local politicians are the ones who decide, and local state politicians must not follow the rigid manuals of the State Road Service. Unfortunately, too few municipalities are using this opportunity to get even more bicycle and walking routes for tax money. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to remind and encourage local and county politicians to build alternatively in order to get even more bike and walking routes, and walking paths, for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1117	I guess it's not random that the representative Johnsen doesn't mention either England or New Zealand when he rose up on rail. But that's not what I was going to talk about, so we can do that later. A few weeks ago, the Stortinget passed a law on testing self-driving vehicles, an important decision that can both bring down the number of cars on the roads and bring down the number of accidents further. This law was passed unanimously, and because this is a technology that gives us both great opportunities and great challenges in the future. We see that this technology will come quickly, and it requires a large-scale access to and expansion of broadband, and we know that it is not just this technology that will require such a large-scale expansion. We are in the midst of a digital revolution in which the Internet of Things will dominate developments both in product development and in people's everyday lives. The welfare services of the future will also depend on a well-developed and stable fibre network throughout the country, for everything cannot be based on satellite technology. This may, or may not, lead to a distinction between city and country. If commercial forces are to lead this development, there are large areas that will never receive broadband coverage via fibre, and the Workers' Party does not want it to form an A-layer and a B-layer in this area either. So in this situation, the government chooses to present a budget proposal with a halved pot for broadband expansion. Fortunately, the two cooperation parties were able to agree on an increase of some 70 million. NOK 150 million. kr, but the Labour Party believes that this is far from enough. In our alternative budget, we've cut off about 500 million. kr to build us closer to the future fiber net. It's actually a sevenfold doubling of the government's proposal. This shows that the Workers' Party has understood the importance of broadband in the welfare society of the future. Everyone must have equal access to digital infrastructure, and our proposal will result in about 20 000 to 25 000 more households getting broadband than with the government's proposals. Then go to aviation. There are many points in the draft budget that are troubling us, and that will mean that we are going to follow closely on developments and on how the government is acting in the future. Among other things, we see: an increase of only about 1 pst. The budget of the Air Safety Authority also includes the costs of a new investment on unmanned aircraft, or what one calls drones in the everyday language. This is an area of aviation that is growing rapidly, and we are asking questions as to whether supervision can carry out the expected quality of its supplies with such moderate growth, which is in practice a real decline in the allocation. We're going to follow this closely. Another thing that we also ask questions about is that the government has announced that they will transfer unprofitable flights to the new regions. We have previously announced and are now maintaining in the setting that we do not support this. The so-called FOT routes are cross-regional and must be continuous so that they correspond. For one region, it will be a major challenge to rely on the priorities of another, and here we believe it will be important for the state to be responsible for the purchases. You don't have to move tasks just to move tasks, when the uncertainty is the same as we see it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1132	One of the key prerequisites for creating a sustainable welfare society is good transport solutions that reduce distances, reduce travel time and increase profitability. New jobs and more well-being are also created. We in the Right want community around the country with creativity and growth power. And what is the main challenge for the districts? Well, there's a lot of distances. Then the solution is to build more roads, more railways, new airports and port facilities that reduce travel time and costs. In this way you connect town and country. The government’s successful district policy can therefore be measured by the government’s communication effort. In that way, it is very good for my county, Nordland. It smells new asphalt all over the county, new projects are under way, and more are coming. The county is going down, and the unemployment rate is record low. A good society is also a society that provides opportunities for everyone, and therefore it is important that we also use the space for action that we have today to invest for the future. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have together delivered the most ambitious national transport plan of the time. We're going to spend over 1,000 billion. kr over the next 12 years. In the submitted 2018 budget, we are continuing the great effort with further increase in the budget. We're taking action to rust our country for a new time by betting a lot more on transportation than any government ever has. We see, however, that there is total chaos on the red-green side. The alternative transport budgets of the Workers' Party, SV, Rødt, the Green Party and the Centre break in all directions. We also saw that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were sitting still in a red-green government and saw that roads all over the country had expired for eight years, and the maintenance crew only increased. The same batches also transferred roads to the counties without it being accompanied by money for upgrading. Now we see, however, that for the first time in many decades, the maintenance allowance declines, and it is important that county councils actually prioritize the road, with the increased free revenues they have received. The Government and the Cooperation Parties are implementing the efforts of the times in the field of transport. We build city and country closer together, we reduce the distances between people, and we make sure that services and goods get faster where they're going. I am pleased that the government parties and the cooperation parties agree that Stortinget asks the government to assess the conversion of today's air passenger tax so that it gets an environmental profile, for example. differentiation according to the length of the flight. This, in fact, could have a very positive impact on the short-haul network and the development of an even better route provision. I also look forward to the work of the government and the presentation of a comprehensive aviation strategy that sees the entire aviation industry in the context. Similarly, I am also pleased that we are now putting in place a system for the promotion of coastal fishing and fairground projects. The right and government promised to increase investment in transport. Annual investments in transport have increased by 60 pst. We promised to maintain better and stop the lapse. In the past, road, rail and coastal sites fell by year. Now it goes down, the rails are straightened up, and the asphalt is rolled out. We promised to get more out of each of these heads. Now New Roads are established and are based on building the same roads 20 pst. cheaper. That means about 30 billion. kr in saved expenditure, which can rather be used to build even more roads. We promised to contribute more collectively in the big cities. We promised to move goods from road to sea and track. Now we have realized arrangements that ensure that it does. The emissions were too high when we took over. Emissions from the transport sector are now falling, and new, environmentally friendly solutions are being developed in shipping, heavy transport and public transport. So, now everything is going so much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1155	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1160	Last Saturday it was the opening of the last stretch on the E18 in Eastfold, when we opened the Ørje–Riksgren as the last trajectory in the development of the Eastfold package. The council itself was cutting the cord in Eastfold's most pleasant village, Ørje, and I heard that he mentioned it. Yes, it has taken time to build E18 through Eastfold – too long, there are many who believe; most probably mean it – but now it's built, now it's ready. It is important for many, not least for fast and efficient transport, but also for road safety – we must not forget that. The number of serious accidents is falling, and we are saving individuals and society from major suffering and expenditure. The fact that this construction of the E18 through Eastfold took time is a well-known matter. But we got to a continuous expansion, Mr. Council. The excavators did not disappear from the area. When one cord was cut, the excavators were in motion and built the next stage. Unfortunately, it's not like that now. When I'm going to drive home, and in here, I don't see any excavators on the district between Eastfold and Akershus. Nothing happens, and now you have to do it. We also need to extend the new E18 through Akershus, and we need it fast. The council itself promised, during its whiskers' speech at Ørje, that we would drive the motorway from ear to bottom until what I understood was the most pleasant place in the council, Bryne. But then the excavators must not disappear from the E18 string, then they must be in place. That's the connection to the Eastern line. It must be in place, it must be clear by 2023, and we must also have the planning for the crossing of the Glomma at InterCity at Sarpsfossen and Hafslund. Then there's another big challenge with the InterCity expansion, the Council of State. Halden town has tied up difficult areas. They are not allowed to do their urban development; business is not allowed to take action on their business in Halden. You also have to clean that up. Finally, on the NRK's pages I saw a notice about the heavy transport, about congestion, driving and rest time, the technical condition of heavy transport. I heard that the Council of State mentioned this in its statement. But here it has to be stronger lye. It's just to look at what comes from Europe and from Norway. That is why I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has more money in its budget for controls on foreign vehicles. Unfortunately, it's not going to be the majority of that money here today. It should have been. Just in the end: I hear that you are boasting here that it is the bet of the times, that it is a historical bet from the Right and the Advance Party – that is not the way. Yeah, it's a historical bet in many ways, but that's also the toll level. [[The President clubs.]] So now Johnsen demands more toll than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1177	Then you're out of time. The President will only point out that when a state council asks for permission to dig, the request should be made via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1184	I'll talk about a project that the president is also very familiar with. The Western world is in a period where the need for conversion is great. Better mobility, shorter travel time for business and labour will be decisive. Stavanger–Bergen is the most popular area on the E39 Coastal Highway. With Hordfast, a road safe four-field will replace three ferries and connect the West more closely. Hordfast will create larger arc and workspace, and travel times will be dramatically reduced. Stavanger, Haugesund, Stord and Bergen will then be chained, and it will be a coherent 45-minute labour market. Between Bergen and Stavanger it is known as approx. 400,000 employees. The road will then be open 24 hours a day, and a whole new competitive environment will be created for business. Now it is important that we get a plan clarification on the project early in 2018, so that the regulatory work can start. It is therefore gratifying that the budget now includes funds that can keep pace with this planning. The size added as known to 14 billion. State crowns of Hordfast for 2024-2029, and 5 billion. kr to other funding in 2018-2023. It was expected that costs would have to be reduced, and yes, according to the last figures from the State Road Service, they have now been reduced by 10 billion. kr, or by 25 pst., which is significant. I have understood that the work on a pre-toll request to transfer funds to the State Road Service has been started, as has been done, for example, in the Rogfast E39 project. It is a matter that we must support when she comes here for treatment, in order to ensure the early start that the majority of people have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1202	In these days it is quite common to send a greeting home. This is not a Christmas card in that way, but a greeting. The professional struggle, as well as the political dragonfight on the best highway between east and west, is bad. So to say everybody wants E134 from Haugesund to Oslo as their main road, but that's not what counts. That's the policy, and that's the ability to find the money. The money is in today from 2023. That's two big shots for it. There may not be many of us in this room. All experience suggests that projects located in the second part of the NTP live a, if not dangerous, then at least unstable life. Rehabilitation of the road from east to west will upgrade the road network, and E134 will be an environmentally friendly trajectory. It is urgent to get started, and the Workers' Party expects the government – for example, to: Odda has completed its control plans in the summer of 2018 – contributes to the continuation of the plan and the start of the Röldal-Seljestad project during the first period. It's a paradox that it says in the vote from the majority that if the people are able to pay enough tolls, the government will be positive to it. The paradox is that one of the government parties that governs the country is against tolls initially. It has to be pretty embarrassing. The people are in. The opposition is included. People along the way are in. Now we have to get started. I hope I don't use next year's debate to talk about the possibility of getting started on the E134.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1215	There has been a lot of talk about NTP, not least in the election campaign there was a big discussion about growth and not growth in development on the road. What we know is that especially for the West there are many and major challenges, and it is more expensive to build roads and roads in the West than it is in the rest of the country. That's the topography, and that's the challenge. We also have a county road network that looks sacs aft. It's said that it gets the county priority itself, but it's actually such a cost that it can't do the county without extra funds. To take Hordaland, as I know best, as an example: Only the tunnel regulations and challenges with old bridges far exceed the amounts that the county has the ability to spend on road repairs. It's a tunnel code that the government has told us to follow, and it's good that we want safety on the roads. But for many of our roads – we can take the Folgefonn tunnel and the road to Rosendal as examples – the tunnel is the most secure one. Otherwise, the road doesn't have a standard that's useful today. We have decided that E134 should be one of the east-west crossings, and one should share traffic on the other roads between tourism and heavy transport. The biggest challenge is actually between Aurland and Bergen, E16. There's still no yellow stripe on the whole way, it's not a road that's racist. There's always race, and I don't think people can understand what it's like to run daily on a raced road, the tax it's for people. We in the Center Party will have a quick start on E16 between Arna and Voss, we will have K5, which is determined to have a common construction with trains and tracks. If we get to that extension on the path in addition to the Ringerix Railway, the train between Norway's two largest cities will actually be a real alternative to aircraft and a really good environment option. It's a shame the government doesn't actually have the error bet on this piece. When they say they're going to try to get started early, they won't take the railway, they're just going to take the road and on the least rascal route, between Hngereid and Arna, in the place between Hngereid and Voss, which is really the big challenge. That's too bad. I mean, we actually don't have time to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1225	Traffic is about how to organise our society so that it works effectively, and that we pollute less. Then it's very special to see that the government cuts at the broadband bet. There may not be a stronger policy of centralisation — a deliberate closure, I would say — that it is not recommended to operate businesses on the outskirts. Thank God, something has been corrected by the Christian People's Party and the Left. SV has invested in urban environment packages, including: to Hamar, Gjøvik, and Lillehammer, who is in my region. It's very important, because we have to make sure that where it's possible to run good public transport, there we do. People can move there without having to drive a car all the time. They're doing well there, and it's possible to keep going and get a very good result. But when it comes to rail, I'm disappointed. Now I have been sitting on the Stortinget for so long that I remember when the Progress Party proposed to lay down both the Bergensbanen and the Rørosbanen and cut the maintenance expenses violently. I see the Minister of Transport shaking his head, but this can actually be proved. I'm glad they didn't get through then. Now everyone wants to bet on the railroad, I'm glad. But it's too small, and it's too slow. Because the railways have to be financed with every penny of the state budget, that means it's going too slowly. You're holding back. Intercity is now one thing that they don't complete properly. The second is Freight Package Inland with Rørosbanen and Solørbanen and the unique opportunity we have to get freight on two tracks from North and Middle Norway and through the East, and not within Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1233	I am very disappointed that there has not been any planning means for this, so that we get started. This is a stretch with which something should have been done many years ago. There is a unique opportunity to take large quantities of goods, which will mean a lot to those who have to travel on the road. Route 3 is a very heavy road section. It is not because we who live in the county drive a lot of cars, but because the long-distance transport goes there. There are goods that neither goes to Kongsvinger nor Oslo. Most of this is going out of the country. It wouldn't have to swing into Oslo and Alnabru, which is now a bottleneck, if we had got this started. Then we have to bring the whole Røros track, not just Hamar-Elverum-Kongswinger, because then we'll make a new bottleneck on Hamar. In Hamar, we have some challenges like that, with putting in a new station and double tracks at intercity, which is going on to Lillehammer. The government must take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1236	Good and efficient transport is important for the environment, it is important for nutrition, it is important for urban development, and it is important for people's everyday lives. Sarpsborg, Fredrikstad, Østfold County Municipality and the State are cooperating on City Package Lower Glomma. Long-standing local politicians have fought for a new transport solution in Sarpsborg, and not least a new sarpebrus, which is the city's bottleneck. As it is today, public transport and cars are in the same slow-moving queue twice a day. The bridge has just expired, and a new solution needs to be put in place. Road and rail are required to plan together. That's good, but it makes us totally dependent on a drive in intercity to Sarpsborg. Optimistic sarpens seem to stand in line, but we're dependent on progress. The party of progress in the government has long boasted that it is Party of Transport. 1st@item: inlistbox We notice that very little in Sarpsborg. The Workers' Party made plans in government for double tracks to Halden by 2030. Now we have to wait even longer. It can have great practical consequences for the entire urban package, because we are dependent on planning at the same time. In the setting, the Workers' Party argues that further planning work with intercity to Sarpsborg must include crossing of Glomma to Hafslund over Sarpsfossen by 2026. I'm disappointed in the position. I hope that you now assume that a transport solution in Sarpsborg without a new sarpebrus is not a solution. Intercity to Sarpsborg by 2026 must include crossing of Glomma, and it is absolutely vital if we are to get to the goal of Halden. Shaky Eastern folds have stood and watched as representatives from the Right and the Advance Party in the election campaign have stated that the railway would come even earlier to Eastfold and to Halden and Sarpsborg. Unfortunately, that is not the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1247	When one from the islands west of the sea – or from the opposition – hears the report of the railway operation, one may be tempted to use some expressions that are far from parliamentary, but let me say it this way: if it goes too slowly today, it must have gone backwards in the red-green period. And it actually did. It actually became more obsolete and worse railway every year in that period. That's how you got a little bit on the way. We are now in a bet on a non-parallel trade in Norwegian history. Many people talk about Bergensbanen taking an entire state budget. Then it's okay – I think that's from there – to remember that the amount that had been the same today is approx. 3.8 B.C.E. kr. The NTP we are now running under this budget is adding up to railway investments that are almost 50 times higher than that – i.e. five mountain railways a year during the planning period, or 50 in ten years. Of course it won't, because the standard and the safety requirements are different today, so it costs a little bit more per meter. But it may say something about the level of ambition when the largest opposition party has not found a single meter new way in addition to the government's proposal, and the second largest spices its proposal with measures that, as I consider them, are not feasible in the budget year they have been introduced. When the largest opposition party is more concerned with wires than roads, it might describe a new technological reality, but also that there is really no political alternative to the NTP that is at the bottom here today. Not in terms of track either: As we hear, SV is completely against the company Nye Veier, but for a new company «New Baner». The center party is a little bit more for post, but will only finance it halfway up to the mailbox. Nor is it an option when the Workers' Party takes money that has reduced tolling in the districts, to transfer it to the urban packages and thus reduce tolling in the cities instead. That is the reality of the 70 pst. to the Workers' Party, perhaps the most district hostile feature we have seen from that edge of this budgetary process. I want to point out three important projects, and here the greeting comes home: the planning of the E16 between Arna and Stanghelle – the first part of the K5 E16 to Voss, as it is called in the tribal language, or the safe path and path to Voss, as we call it – is now going to go too far. It is important to realize as early as possible so that you can travel safely on this route. I also record that here are the great promises from many – even live on the platform at Voss station just before the election – but I see that in reality we are all following the same progress plan, although perhaps someone will claim something different, and every day we get reminders of how important this project is. Therefore, it is important to realise it under the plan. The same applies to E39, which is one of the projects with the largest net benefit in the portfolio of NTP. Together with the new E16, it will provide a whole new and more coherent region in what is now Hordaland, and which may be Western tomorrow. The E39 also applies to road safety and safety through ferries disappears. What has actually been a road that is open for five minutes every hour becomes a road that is open all the time. Urban areas are also important, that the agreements are extended so that municipalities like my, Ashkoy, can also become part of and get funds from those schemes, which means that we can succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1264	The Ringerix Railway is important to the country. The Ringerix Railway is important to Buskerud. So let me return for a moment to the treatment of the National Transport Plan on 19 June this year. In Buskerud, the expectations of the national transport plan were high. The right and the front part had even excited the bow of expectation high – too high, it would turn out. The handling force was not as great as it had been given the impression in advance. Bushyard had, like other states, its expectations. In Ringerijk, Ringeriksbanen and E16 are at the top of the wish list. Large urban development and industrial development plans depend entirely on a good infrastructure. Clear promises had been given for a long time about the quick start. In 2015, there was cake on Sund Island for start-up 2019. The Bushman County would shoot up three and a half billion. kr to ensure parallel development of road and track. When the recording came from the floors until NTP, some of us were worried. There was no room for some of the promised projects, and the Ringerix Railway was one of them. When NTP arrived, the track was exposed, with construction start 2021/2022. The council tried in a Spanish one and claimed that the postponement was due to a delay in planning, but it did not. It was on track. When the National Transport Plan 2018–2029 was beaten in Stortinget on 19 June of this year, plant start continued to stand at 2021/2022, despite cake feasts and previous promises from the Right and Advance Party. The starting time of the Ringeriksbanen was a hot theme in the big elections in Buskerud. Not least, clear demands were made by business teams. Both before and during the election campaign, representatives of Buskerud Right and Buskerud Progress Party promised to start construction in 2021. So the promise was not kept when the transport plan was adopted. The start time was 2021/2022. The difference between 2021 and 2021/2022 may appear to be a small detail, but it is essential to ensure that it is safe from further delays. 2021 is within the first four-year period during which the decisions are binding. After that, the plan shall be revised. Today Stortinget deals with the transport budget for 2018. The Workers' Party proposed to increase the appropriations for rail by 647.5 million. kr, including 200 mill. SEK for investments, including: to the Ringeriksbanen but was voted down in the consideration of the position of the Financial Committee. In its draft budget for 2018, the Workers' Party assumes that the Ringeriksban must be ensured to start up in 2021. Mr Solvik-Olsen's motion for a resolution further lowers the ambitions. It is now said that the government is aiming for a possible start to construction in 2021/2022 – a new reservation that gives rise to new concerns. The right hand side and the forward side could instead stand firm on their election vow about starting 2021, but have chosen not to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1282	We all want to build more roads and paths. But to get these roads and roads built, we need people to build them. The centre part is occupied by the framework conditions of our commuters, who travel a lot to make sure that these facilities are built. Norway has had and still needs a good deal of mobile labour for many years. Especially in the construction sector, this is crucial. We are many who daily commute to and from our workplaces in the larger cities, depending on good collective relations and the most flexible transport possible to and from the workplace. In the Central Party, we would like, among other things: strengthening the deployment of access parking and good transition solutions between different collective services. Despite the fact that our society is totally dependent on many of us taking the taxes of commuting longer distances daily or on a weekly basis, the government has for several years made its commuting worse. In its alternative budget proposal, the Central Party has corrected some of the tax austerity introduced by the government and that commuters are constantly experiencing a reduction in their tax deduction possibilities – the extra cost they incur – to ensure a mobile workforce. I was, as mentioned earlier today, at Otta and met representatives of the machine contractors in the Gudbrands Valley, who have established a network there. Now they're working with a knowledge park and NTNU at Gjøvik to deploy the digital tools to build faster, more efficient and cheaper. The Gudbrand valley has been in a special position with many commuters in the construction industry, and it has been a tradition for generations to do this. These commuters describe a situation with more difficult conditions for commuters, and there is a lack of good transitions between car and public transport. In order to ensure the functioning of the main bus and labour market regions, it is necessary to give priority to the needs of commuters in a completely different way from today. The central party believes that it is an important measure to improve the switch between car and public transport and to strengthen parking capacity at strategically important collective nodes. The aim should be to give the central stops around the largest cities 8 000 new parking spaces, and the Centre Party has proposed to set aside 50 million. For concrete planning work for commuter parking in our four largest urban regions: Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. We mean this is an important urban environmental effort by getting fewer cars that need to run into the cities, as well as other public users... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1297	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1302	Society is becoming increasingly dependent on electronic communications and ICT systems. New technology and digitisation change and permeate society, and it happens very quickly. It has given us a wide range of services, such as cash-free trading, financial services on mobile and electronic interactions with the public. Just think about when one last one was physically inside a post office, a loner's office, an equation office, a bank or a municipality building. In 2017, most of us arrange what we're going to, through the PC, the mobile phone or the iPad. One might say that digitization has revolutionized the way we communicate, and most of us will not reverse the technological developments and possibilities it has given to most people. An important basis for this development is a well-functioning ecosystem with good coverage. This means that the requirements for broadband and a good mobile network are becoming increasingly important. In Norway, we have chosen to extend broadband mainly on commercial terms. It has been a success. In 2016, more than 10 billion were invested. kr in the ecosystem, and Norway is in the top of the world when it comes to broadband and mobile coverage. It is a competitive advantage that we must continue by continuing to facilitate development, contributing to low costs, for example. by means of an effective digging regulation, and by means of a targeted tilling in areas which are not of commercial interest. Norway is among the countries in the world with the highest digital participation and competence, and we are – as I said – at the world summit on broadband and mobile coverage. High-quality broadband is an important regional tool. I myself have several friends who can work from home, instead of sitting in the office in the city, one or more days a week because the municipality has arranged for good broadband development. It is claimed from some — including here in the hall today — that access to broadband is as important as electricity and water. Broadband speed varies from location to location, but there are an increasing number of Norwegian broadband users accessing high-speed broadband networks. It is gratifying that in the budget agreement at Stortinget there was agreement to increase the amount of broadband over the budget of the Ministry of Transport to SEK 147.9 million. kr – an increase of 10 million. kr from 2017. The scheme shall contribute to the allocation of funds to development projects in municipalities where the need is greatest and to the achievement of the government’s broadband policy objectives. But it should not be and will never be the column of expansion. The general rule is commercial expansion. Digital infrastructure is becoming increasingly important, and the major technological changes that have taken place present some challenges. It makes us vulnerable to both crime and ICT accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1315	Today we have heard representatives from the government parties blithe with the fact that the emissions of greenhouse gases decreased by 1 pst. in Norway last year. Before doing that, it might be a good idea to check the numbers a little bit more closely. The truth is that the decline we witnessed in Norway last year is dimmed in rainforest destruction and increased emissions globally. The use of biofuels in the transport sector was primarily increasing and reduced emissions in Norway. When the figures showed the decrease only came in May this year, Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen said the following in his press release: ‘Emissions from the combustion of biofuels count as zero in the Norwegian accounts. However, the global emission effect of biofuels will be different from that in the Norwegian accounts.». The truth about the government’s climate policy is that it has been dimmed in palm oil — palm oil that destroys the rain forest in Indonesia and Malaysia. Nobody from the government parties is saying, at all. It's just tragic. Palm oil is an environmentally harmful product, even with sustainability criteria. In order to have a good global climate impact of increased blending of biofuels, palm oil must be removed. There has been a lot of attention around the fact that palm oil is unhealthy for the body. Now it is time to conclude that it does not have anything to do in the car either. In Norway, last year, we avoided 466 000 tonnes of CO 2 in our climate accounts as a result of the use of rain forest diesel, but globally this palm oil-based fuel can be estimated to have resulted in an increase in emissions of between 520,000 and 790,000 tonnes of CO 2 – more than the reduction that governments are currently boasting of at home. We need an environmental policy in the transport sector that cuts emissions, not one that destroys the rainforest and increases emissions there. As others have seen today, there are some low-hanging fruits to cut emissions from the transport sector in Norway. Several of the parties campaigned for this by electrifying the parts of the railway network that are still running on diesel. The tread is, along with the Meråkerbahn, one of the examples of a route that should have been electrified, and it should have been started next year, at least if you were to believe in the promises of the government parties from in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1339	It's interesting to hear the criticism from SV. When I was in Stortinget as an opposition politician, SV was out loud and wanted to have increased use of biofuels. A stuffed cities with diesel cars, and one then not emitters. Now one sees it, and then all of a sudden it's also wrong because one's not satisfied with the way we do it, despite the fact that it's the way SV even recommended. Sustainable biofuels are part of our government's policy. We're going to deliver on that, too. But there's a lot going on. So if you look at the new car sales now, grams of CO 2 per kilometer that went down by 7 grams this year from last year, and the same thing happened the year before. And so this is a desired development, not what we saw from the previous government. So there's been a lot of discussion about broadband. I think it's a little interesting when it becomes the big discussion, considering that evolution is amazingly positive. We have a market business that delivers a strong growth, a growth of 3 billion. kr higher at investment level in 2017 than in 2013. Had it been the opposite direction, I would have understood the concern, but when development is positive, this seems more to be an artificial discussion. The SV and the Central Party have said in the debate that this is centralisation, that there has been better broadband coverage in cities than in districts. Yes, that's why we aim to have broadband across the country. But when we took over, Finnmark had a broadband coverage of 7 pst. Oslo had a coverage of 95 pst. So if someone contributed to the centralization of the digital infrastructure, it was the government of Stoltenberg, with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, who made sure that the largest cities had fantastic good coverage early, while the districts were hanging after so it held. In Sogn and Fjordane the coverage was around 23 p.m., in Hedmark and Uppland it was in the 1930s, and the same was true of More and Romsdal. I see no argument that we should go back to the previous government in solving these challenges, especially considering that Finnmark today has a coverage of 82 pst. From 7 to 82 pst. is the opposite of centralization! In fact, here the arguments must be related to the facts, and one must not just try to create a negative image. The centre party Mossleth has been very busy trying to claim that the government's target has been 4 Mbit/s in terms of speed. No, we've presented a Digital Agenda that says 100 Mbit/s. On the other hand, the representative Mossleth can check the Digital Agenda presented by the Government of Stoltenberg in March 2013. There were no quantifiable numbers of what was the goal beyond 2 Mbit/s. That's what the red-green dared to figure out. And let me say it this way: even with the wrong picture Mossleth's representative drawn by the government, it would be twice as good as what they themselves dared to figure out. We actually have targets on broadband coverage to the whole country, but we believe in more than subsidies, we believe that playing the market well also helps solve this. In the past, the Labour Party had the approach of playing well together; now it seems that subsidies are the only instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1358	I wonder if the Minister has thrown his eyes on any alternative budgets in the last government period. It does not seem that he has taken on board that others have also discovered that the world is not at rest. What happened in the last red-green period is not necessarily what would have happened if it had become a new red-green period, which I hope it will soon be. But it is said very well about the Post and their employees from the pulpit today. Both employees and management have informed us that there is uncertainty about the changes to be made in the mail delivery in the relatively near future. All we know is that the changes are likely to lead to depopulation. The changes that the Posten has made in the past have been carried out without major conflicts by negotiating with the companies and employees for solutions that have been acceptable to both parties, and the parties commend each other for their prudence in these negotiations. Now we know that the government has the frequency of involvement in the investigation, and the trade union itself says that they need about a year to carry out any downsizing in the same agreed manner as they have done now – that also to a great deal of recognition from the government. There are no such means of redundancy in the budget, as we have found, and it would be interesting to know whether the government has the intention to contribute to a solution that gives the parties in the Posten time and opportunity to negotiate such solutions in the future and to provide predictability for the company, the employees and the customers. So we've noticed that there's a big difference, both in next year's budget and in the current year, between the ministry's proposal for payment for unprofitable postal services and what the Post has figured out. We therefore ask the Ministry of Transport to reach agreement with the Post on what are the real extra costs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1369	Finnmark is far from power. We who live there notice it. We note this in particular when the state budget is presented. Very little of Finnmark's projects are given priority. Finnmark is larger than Denmark, and both geography and climate are much more demanding. Finnland has large natural resources, such as a large supply of fish, good marine location, very good wind resources for wind power, and oil and gas deposits that can be mined for a long time in the future. This county needs good infrastructure. We need to rv. 94 until Hammerfest is finished. We need the gap between Alta and Kautokeino to be secured for race, because it's a dangerous area. We've been talking about fishing ports, so I'm not going to repeat that, because there are a lot of people who need priority. On behalf of the Workers' Party, we proposed emergency measures of 20 million. kr to Kamøvær. The reason for this is that boats go down by the floating bridge in storm, and we need to strengthen the slip and race protection. Hammerfest Airport must be decided upon. It's going to come from Avinor at the beginning of 2018, and I look forward to that, because the need is present. It has been a strong wish from Alta Municipality to expand Alta Airport and get a 200 meter longer runway. When the national transport plan was decided, an overall committee joined it. It is further written: ‘So far, the municipality of Alta has forged this work’ – for the used masses from E6 –’ with borrowings, and these members are not satisfied with the lack of a agreed solution to the financing of this extension.’ I would like to challenge the Bengt Rune Strifeldt of the Progress Party. The progress party was one of those who promised that they would sort this out. Why hasn't the Progress Party sorted this out? Why is it the Alta municipality that has to bear that cost with the reasonable way to use masses from E6 to? I hope that I can get an answer to that, because, as I said, it has been promised that it will be sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1385	Yeah, there'll be a lot of geography. The mountains, the city between the seven mountains, as a result of their topography for many years, have had challenges with air quality, but the centre is also compact and has a high proportion of jobs, making it suitable for efficient public transport. Solving the urban transport challenge is crucial, not only for air quality and the health of citizens, but also for cities to function as dynamic regional engines for development across the country. Last day before the Stortinget takes a Christmas holiday, Stortinget will deal with City Pack Bergen, based on the urban growth agreement between Bergen and the surrounding municipalities. The aim is to reduce passenger transport and replace it with public transport, corridors and bicycles. The mountains have had tolls since 1986, and the population has contributed to the financing of most of the ring road systems, urban railways and a number of environmental measures. It is important that we discuss the use of Community funds — for some collective and other sections, the Community funds are spent on 100 p.m., while for others, such as cities, it is the inhabitants who may well have solved the greatest challenges. For this reason, the Workers' Party has chosen to increase the State share, precisely in order to achieve progress, better air quality and better health for its citizens, as well as to address the transport challenges facing cities. This applies to all cities. There are significantly more than the 50 that governments and their cooperation parties contribute. We have followed up our election promises in our alternative budget. In practice, it means 115 million. kr more to Bergen, the same to Stavanger and 70 million. kr to Trondheim. It would give progress in the expansion or less toll for those who live there. Norway is also a fishing and maritime nation. It is therefore particularly important to record that the government has reduced the share of the transport budget that is going to strengthen maritime transport and fishing ports. Where are the ambitions to get more goods into maritime transport, to stimulate the creation of more jobs in the maritime sector, one of the largest sectors we have, where we really have the potential to create new value creation for replacement when oil is gradually phased out? Finally, I want to do as many others from Hordaland: rejoice that we are now getting ahead in the development of a safe road to Voss, and that we are getting a safe highway between Bergen and Oslo, the two main cities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1400	I am very pleased that the last speaker mentioned the growth agreement in Bergen, which we will also take a decision on Wednesday. But it is quite clear, as I have said earlier today, that these four urban growth agreements and the urban environment agreements concluded with Trondheim, Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger are incredibly important, and it is not least an inspiration to be able to implement measures locally. That's another thing I would also say a little bit about, a follow-up of what the Left stands for. We would like to see a national transport plan – that is, it is less than six months since we adopted it – now be followed, and I really have a little to explain when it comes to the airport at Mo in Rana. A majority has a note about it in the setting where the Left is not included. That doesn't mean we're at Hauan Airport. We think it's very good. However, we believe that it should be followed up with the time perspective and with the plan laid down in the national transport plan, so that we get state funds from 2024 and start-up with private funds over the first six years. I assume that the Ministry of Transport will establish talks on financing solutions with local forces. That's what's in the National Transport Plan, that's the plan that the Left wants us to follow, or else we'll go along with the priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1407	Government investment in infrastructure is continued through high funding for road and rail, the efficiency of the planning process and the efficiency and implementation of projects. For the government and the supporting batches, the aim is to further reduce the maintenance set run from the current level. There was an increase in the comparison of 447.5 million. to the railway in this respect. I would also like to emphasise that the strong commitment to new infrastructure, on which this government has invested, must be expected to make existing sections more robust, not least intercity efforts. One of the main challenges we're facing is the cost growth. We've seen it in the transport sector for years. The fact that more projects are far more expensive than envisaged is a challenge, not least with regard to the implementation of the main projects. We have to tackle this phenomenon. Not least New Roads have shown us that it is possible to think differently and untraditionally, and reduce costs by large amounts. So we see the same thing for Bane NOR. Here, too, it signals that there is a saving to pick up. When individual projects become up to 20 pst. more expensive, e.g. electrification of the Trønderbahn, it is 600 million. kr. Then it gets a little bit small when the Workers' Party says they're going to spend 160 million. NOK to get this started. We have to get an overview of the costs before we can start it. This does not mean that it is scraped, which means that one can implement the project robustly when it first comes. And I'm sure it'll come pretty soon. The development of heavy infrastructure is expensive. This government has committed itself to covering 50 pst. of the costs of the four major urban areas. The budget shall be provided that the proposed appropriations will cover 50 pst. the costs of MetroBussen i Trondheim, Bybanen to Füllingsdalen and Bussveien on Nord-Jären respectively. The Fornebuban is covered by the grant scheme, but the state contribution to regulatory planning in 2018 is covered by unused funds in 2016 and 2017. Good cooperation is required between the State, the State and the municipalities on the choice of concrete solutions. An organisation of urban growth agreements is envisaged for which all parties are part of a steering group. Then it's a little strange that you're pressing single solutions for very expensive projects here. It's about the Roman Railway. I have been informed during the day that there are two alternatives. One is the metro to Ahus and then the subway to Kjeller, it's $7.5 billion. kr. The other is metro all the way, it's 17.5 billion. kr. It's huge sums. This proposal should actually have been sent, so that you could get an overview of what it really was about. Finally, I would like to say that Oslo is an exhibition window for public transport. In Akershus we have increased the collective share by 60 pst. Since 2007, and there is the bourgeois regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1424	The regional level is at the forefront of regional reform. A co-ordinated and cross-political team has had electrification of the Tronder and Meråker Railway as the first priority of all transportation projects for many years. The railway goes through the entire Trøndelag, from Dovre and Røros to Majavatn, and it goes into Sweden. The railway has a significant potential, with multiple departures and better comfort, and is not least more environmentally friendly in terms of freight transport. In dialogue with Norway, the Swedish authorities have done their job at Storlien and invested 0.5 billion. SEK in, inter alia: a new railway bridge. It is quite unpleasant in meeting them to say that the government only months after the NTP decision and several months after one was familiar with a cost of 600 million. kr, cancels the project. That's actually what Bane NOR says. The project will be added to a drawer. They're waiting for a start-up order to realize the project and to work on cutting costs. Finally, Trondheim–Steinkjer will bring about an annual reduction of approx. 14 000 tonnes of CO 2. It's an important premise to reduce car traffic in the main year through our country. So we have eaten cake over and over again – while the government knew that the project had a cost increase. I'm, after all, happy that there's also a remark from the majority that it's not going to be put away, so I'm excited about the follow-up in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1438	#Handling force I have often seen from the Progress Party tops. We can let this become a purely technical broadband debate, but the fact is that in the last four years there have been applications for broadband development grants in non-commercial areas for 2.4 billion. kr – and that is the top of the iceberg. The State allocation over the same four-year period has been only 534 million. kr. The Minister cannot put the #negotiating force ahead of this bet. The representative Jonny Finstad is pleased that there is a lot of asphalt in Northern Ireland. Yeah, that's great. I have to remind him that it's still being built after the red-green NTP. Then I have to regret that an important stretch for the business community in Northern Ireland, the bottleneck Sorelva – Borakamo, is exposed by the government. The centre part will build it at the same time as the Mountain Tunnel and will start up. The representative of Finstad also boasts that the county councils have received more money, and they must give priority. That's not true. Nordland loses $300 million. kr in the year from 2020 because this blue-blue government changes the distribution keys. The money is taken from the north and other districts, in line with job no. one for the government: centralisation of Norway. Of course, there's a drop of almost 300 million. kr – and all sectors must contribute, including transport. In the past, Nordic countries have spent nearly 200 million dollars. kr more on ferries than the distribution keys were added. We have prioritised them, but now we have got new boat and ferry keys from the government. We're going to add up to 21 million. NOK when we include the minus from what we lost on speedboats. One plus twenty-one million. kr does not amount to much when the deduction is close to 300 million. kr. The government has also changed the system of reimbursement for speedboats. Also, this disappoints a lot of northerners. The center party has greater ambitions than this government. We want to use the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1455	Norway needs an infrastructure that builds on the ability to run profitable business, and we need an infrastructure that takes account of our climate. This government has adopted a national transport plan which, for Northern Norway, is without trace of prioritizing environmentally friendly alternatives to the export of fresh fish from my part of the country. The majority of NTPs also failed to prioritise those projects in the north that are the most profitable for society. The need for fresh fish and profitability in road and rail projects is often linked. In the autumn, we have seen that a traffic light system has been set up that may for the first time since 2009 generate growth in the quantity of farmed fish produced. Much of that growth is going to come in the north. It is then important that the Minister of Transport follows up, so that it is possible to get this fresh fish out to the markets. There are then two projects that must in any case be planned to be completed in 2018. E6 has to be placed in a tunnel outside Narvik centre, and double tracks have to be planned on Ofotbanen, mostly of fresh fish from Nordland and Troms exported via Narvik and Ofotbanen through Sweden. It's a great eco-friendly way to export fresh fish from North Norway. Getting all the train trains with fresh fish currently running through Narvik centre, in a tunnel outside the centre on the way to the train terminal is the most profitable road project in North Norway, and that is because there is so much commercial traffic there. The government has not even planned to get money for planning. The same applies to double tracks on Ofotbanen – it has to be planned. When the government of Stoltenberg laid down its national transport plan in the spring of 2013, it prioritised SEK 1.6 billion. kr to capacity-enhancing measures, and they are soon fully completed. Now it is important that the Progress Party in government takes responsibility for this corridor and provides for the plans we need for the future. The working party prioritises planning resources for this important railway project in its alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1468	I have to admit that I am a little disappointed when I hear my co-representatives from North Norway say how miserable the situation is in the north. I think that this kind of talk doesn't deserve the part of the country. We have a part of the country going so it sucks and goes better than the rest of the country. So I don't recognize myself in those descriptions, and I also want to add that both the municipalities and county councils have better results during this government's period than under the previous government. But what I was actually going to talk about was the oil and environmental base that the government is going to establish in the Lofoten and the Vestral. I have noticed today that some red-green representatives have mentioned it and also mentioned it positively, and refer to their positive comments. I think that's very nice, and I'm going to boast about that. The representative, Siv Mossleth, was also in a reading post and said that this work was started during the previous government. It's a positive error. I was the rapporteur in Lofoten during the period when the red-green government was sitting, and that was the idea of an oil and environmental base. We met with a Swedish Environment Minister, but it was thumb down from the red-green government. I think it is good that you have now come up with better thoughts, because the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have a positive comment on this. It promises well for the future and for this oil and environmental base to become a lighthouse for the environment and good climate solutions, and not least for us who live in that region. So it was today's glory. I would like to welcome those parties after, and in another area, this government is at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1481	Transport projects in the district are not prioritised by today’s government. There is a zero bet on county road maintenance, there is a reduction in race protection, there is a halving of broadband funds, and there is a cut in funding for coastal infrastructure. The centre party ensures that the transport sector is uplifted throughout the country. The government says that it rates traffic and infrastructure, but in the states this is perceived as a truth with modifications. Let me do some examples. The appropriations for broadband expansion are halved in the government's draft budget. The agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party straightens up little neighbor, but far from enough. In its alternative budget, the Central Party has strengthened the allocations for broadband deployment in non-commercially profitable areas by 430 million. kr. The differences in priorities may be best seen when we break down the appropriations at state level. Let me use trombone layers as an example. Trøndelag is the country's second largest road owner, right after the state. The center part is $69 million. kr more than the Government for Upgrading the County Roads in Trøndelag. Overall, we've put 1 billion. kr to a maintenance programme for the county roads. The slowdown is high, and transport modes have shown an annual need of between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr to correct the maturities. I can mention two European road projects: E6 Selli-Asp and E39 Betna-Stormyra. None of these are government priorities. The center part is 20 million. kr for each of these sections in our alternative budget. Unfortunately, the racetrack is also failing on the part of the government parties. In the election campaign, Right-wing Representative Elin Agdestein was absolutely in his assurances that there would be a stake in the Tronderbanen in this year's budget. She said that all speculations and predictions that electrification of the Tronderbahn would be exposed could be parked once and for all. Then came the election, and after that budget, and the treadmill is parked. It's completely out in blue, and in the worst case, it's going to be squealed until we get a new government. The project organisation is being built up, its competence disappears, and of course this will be demeaning. Electrification of the Trunder Railway is both an important environmental measure and important to reduce travel time and increase capacity on a route on which there is a broad consensus to invest. The Central Party promised in its examination of the National Transport Plan that we would promote a start-up grant in 2018, on the quality assurance report for the project was available at that time. It has now been completed and the project is ready for launch. That's why the Senterpartie will grant $70 million. kr for start-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1498	I also take the word to say something about the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen. As some of the other representatives of the Trøndelag have been involved, the main project is a collective network of collective organisations in the last three NTPs. It is clear that it felt like a serious setback when our common cause was not prioritised by the government and the majority parties in relation to the budget. It is sad today to hear the flight from the facts. The left spokesperson says that the railway is the most important for the left – yes, but not in the Trendelag. It is true that Size determines. Yes, but the problem is that the Left – in all its care for the railway – would not help the Tronderbahn to get started. The Council of State says this is not about whether to get started, but when to get started. But it is also the case that we have received information from Bane NOR that the contract they have had with Baneservice must be terminated, and that Bane NOR's project organisation is about to be terminated. That means it won't be easy to get started, it's not an easy exercise to get started. Then there's a lot of people from the positions that's spending over a $600 million increase in cost. kr. Yeah, I see that's a challenge. There is a quarter of the right and the Progress Party has intended to pay for a bike path from Reppe to Heimdal in Trondheim. I think it is very sad that we do not get started with the trombone in this budget. Unfortunately, I have my doubts as to whether this government will be able to get the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen on the rails during the period it is sitting. Then I'll say a few words about digitization. It is clear that all of us in the room are concerned that digitisation is in full swing. But it's also that the digital class division is increasing. Every coverage report from Nkom in the last four years shows that broadband expansion is fast, but the geographical divisions are increasing. The last report shows that 97 pst. in Oslo has high-speed broadband, while it is down to 40 pst. in individual districts. It's not a choice between commercial expansion or state expansion, because in many places it's a sensible spice layer we're talking about – a spice layer between the builder, the county and the individual user. There are many of us who have participated in this kind of spice layer, and there is a lot of eagerness to expand, but there is too little money in the government budgets. I have to say, if the Council of State thinks anything about taking a vow – and that promise has to come now, if we are to avoid a digital class distinction – the government should be involved in the 500 million. kr proposed in the future. But it's a government council that's more concerned about the past than about the future that we're now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1508	A little bit about tolls and taxes and things like that: it's not so unusual that politicians talk to two tongues, but it's probably hardly anyone who can do this better and has made it a little art, I think, than the Progress Party. We're going to have a lot of tax cuts, well over 20 billion. kr, says Siv Jensen – she has arranged it for those who have the most from before. Then you don't want more money into the cash register for, among other things. transport, and at the same time they like to have no more tolls. This rhetoric was very common before the election, in the campaign. This isn't going to work. Of course, the Progress Party has gradually understood what the Right for the longest has. They must be involved in toll financing, they have no choice. Then they must end with this populist rhetoric. They have done little damage to the problem by using a lot of oil money, of course. But now it's going to be serious in the years to come. Then they have to choose, and then we see how the rhetoric hangs together. It is almost comical when the Council of State still refers to the efforts of previous governments, four to five years ago or maybe ten years ago and backwards. Extra comical when he talks about it in the case of broadband. In the whole world, has nothing happened in the technological development of five to ten years? I wonder how fast Gerhardsen had in his time. There's been a lot of happening in the last few years. I must say that the rhetoric that goes on what previous governments did in terms of technological implementation is quite strange. I think you might want to be a little bit more honest in politics, and I've been asking for that many times. Then I'll give a little honeymoon to the middle parties. I've heard a lot of debates here, and very often when they experience failure, they admit some mistakes, things they didn't get, and I think maybe we should be better at this in the hall. That's true of everyone. We can have a little more honesty into politics. It's not just winning we're going to get ahead, but also the things that we didn't quite did because of the constellations, the way they were.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1517	I notice that in today's debate few people have alternative solutions. It is not that there is much discussion about organizing things differently, giving very different priorities, but one would like to have much more money for everything that is pleasant, than the government has. Then it's good to remember what you've done in the NTP, what you've suggested yourself. There have been many wishes from Labour Party representatives for new road sections that need to be built, without one having put a single penny in their own budget. Such things must be allowed to point out without the Workers' Party becoming angry. When much of the debate is about complaining about drafts, it makes sense to think about the snow that fell last year. One invites himself to that discussion, and then one must not get angry because we point out how one himself has prioritised earlier. To this with broadband: I think it is relevant now to point to broadband earlier. Then SV's representatives can shake their heads, but I remember a NRK statement on February 1, 2008. Then the Minister for Transport Liv Signe Navarsete would explain why a number of post offices were laid down under the red-green government. The answer was that the digitisation and expansion of broadband happened so quickly that people used the post offices less. Ergo: Ten years ago, the government itself used broadband development as an argument for shutting down post offices. Then it's a little strange that you're saying that it's only today that broadband means something in everyday life to people. I think it reminds me of rewriting the story a little bit. I also think it's a little strange that the Center Party gives the impression that they're going to give many extra services to today's postal service, but they won't finance it. Then one went into the luxury trap. But I recognize the trend in this discussion from all the reader letters and newspaper essays that are around the country, where a promise of a lot of things, but forget to mention: Oi, we haven't financed it in the budget. It's outright irresponsible, I'd say. When the representative Mossleth again says that everyone who has applied for broadband support has not received it, I remember that this was the case when the Senterpartiet crashed. The centre party granted no more money for broadband support than has been done under today's majority. It wasn't that everyone who wanted it got. But I remember that when the Senterpartiet crashed, Oslo had a broadband coverage of 95 pst, and Finnmark had 7 pst. When the representative Arnstad himself was Minister of Transport, she was involved in creating a digital class distinction in this country, in which today's majority are cleaning up. It doesn't help to repeat it over and over again on this pulpit from different red-green representatives. These are very clear statistics, and the statistics show that under today's government, under today's majority, there's a lot more money invested in building broadband than what happened before. It's actually the market, now that before, that does the biggest job, and I'm very happy about that, for a digital society we all enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1530	The centre party will build transport and communication across the country – less talk, more action. Through the construction of trains, roads and fibers, the country will be built even stronger together, with solid opportunities for everyone throughout the country. Traffic growth in cities must be on foot, bicycle and collective. Several have talked about this development in the debate. The government parties come up with an almost arrogant show that everything is going so well thanks to them, and that everything is going really well just these days thanks to them. I don't agree very much. As an Upplands representative, I have noticed where the Minister of Transport has slept at work. Bottlenecks and dangerous sections of E16 in Valdres are not prioritised by the government. The E6 stake in Gudbrandsdalen did not keep to the whole road section. The Gjøvik track has got new train sets when the old ones were falling apart. Intercity development has remained silent, and the path of Lillehammer is among the sections that lose. County roads lacking subsidies are also a sad story. The government claims that they give priority to funding for rural roads for precisely district and regional policies. The problem is that, however, the strengthening of rural road budgets has been lower than the cuts in rural resources, and in addition, the strengthening has been at the expense of free revenues for other tasks, which again go beyond, for example: higher education and just public transport. If we are to have real investment, we must have new policies and new initiatives. The Council of State will succeed enough in some areas – I will pay tribute to it, I will be generous enough to say it – but not everything is as rosy as the government is to have it, or as it is presented from the government parties here. I am behind the representative Nävra's wish that we can admit and stand in defeat and wrong steps. I think the Stortinget, the country and the Council of State could have grown on that. I myself was present when the Minister for Transport was at the Fensens and held a embarrassing election meeting in the autumn. There were no promises, just big words. We need action. We need the Central Party's alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1545	In its 2018 budget, the Central Party has proposed a large increase in the allocation of State roads by decommitment of 1 billion. kr for maintenance and renewal. It is necessary, because when you travel out there and see where the traffic is going, you register an ever-increasing amount of traffic on increasingly poor roads. The proposals of the trade unions for the National Transport Plan for 2018–2029 showed that there was a need between 1.5 billion. kr and 2 br. extra kr annually to maintain the standard on the county roads. Thus, the fact that the county municipalities did not have sufficient resources to meet their ambitious objective of providing safe and secure roads for businesses and their inhabitants was identified by the fact that they did not have sufficient resources to meet their ambitious objectives. The county roads are 80 pst. of the total length of the road in this country. 45 pst. of all fatal and serious accidents occurring on county roads. Therefore, Stortingen cannot take this discussion lightly, as it may seem that one believes one has done. I think we all have to admit that there is not money for everything that the Council of State was about to do. But there must be money to give priority to some of the important things in this country, namely the infrastructure. It ensures that people get to work, that business gets their goods sent, and not least that export-oriented businesses get goods delivered abroad, which we all benefit from. For 2018, the government proposed to increase the county councils’ framework by 200 million. kr. It does not even cover the price and cost increase. The way in which representatives of the government parties feel that they are reintroducing and reducing it with the budgetary appropriations proposed is not something I can understand. If we are to assume that this country looks like it does, sufficient appropriations are actually required to enable the county councils and county councils to give priority to continued growth in the field of transport. That's what the county has done in the last few years. With a few exceptions, the vast majority of county councils have used significantly larger amounts in recent years than they used before, just to renovate their traffic. But within all the bets that you want to make, which different state councils in their areas want the county councils to do, it's sad to say that there's no room for the enormous efforts on the road that the state council wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1556	When you hear the debate today, it is very much mantra «too little and too late». Today, when we see how impatient the Workers' Party representatives are, it has to be mentioned that they were not as impatient as the maintenance crew increased in all areas of transport not many years ago. When you see the greetings that are now sent home from the same representatives, with many projects that are not fully funded, it is more and more similar – as the minister pointed out – to ‘the luxury trap’. It is referred from the representative of Ingarill Olsen to a note in the National Transport Plan, which was adopted in spring. I would like to remind the representative that this transport plan is valid for the period 2018-2029. Even if you want to, you will not be able to start and implement all the projects in the first year, but it will follow the period. I am very pleased with those who are impatient to get their projects started, in particular that within fishing ports and fairgrounds there will be an advance shoot-out system, and that we will remove the maintenance run on navigation equipment for the same fairways already in the first period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1567	I want to go back to Posten and that with pollution and emissions. In particular, SV has focused a lot today on the fact that the car is a mess that contributes so much pollution. That's why they won't build roads. But in the case of both the Center Party and SV, they're going to grant 100 million. extra to subsidise a need which is simply not there. The post office is due, including: The center party instead, but there is no post to send out. The need has changed dramatically in recent years. Therefore, the post office does not want to have a turnover of five days a week. It is a little special when talking about environmental protection and limiting car use – and perhaps not even wanting to build new and safe roads, as SV wants – that they should subsidize empty postal cars that are going to travel around without mail in the country, just because they have such an opinion that the mail is going to arrive, regardless of whether it is mail or not. I have to say, it's a little special. It is not environmentally friendly, and at least it is not socio-economically sensible. Then we got a little comment here earlier today from the Workers' Party that we could compare with how things went in England and in New Zealand in terms of outsourcing. We're dealing with the local examples we have, for the Gjøvik track, which works well, and we can relate to Scandinavian examples. Our good friends in Svenska Järnvägen have competed in – as we talked about – up to thirty years. It's important for us to listen to them. We in the Progress Party fraction met with them last week to get recordings from there. Then we don't have to go to the other side of the earth to see how they haven't done it in a good way there, when we can get examples from the local environment. A little back to the Center Party and the Workers' Party, who cut New Roads: it's very special, especially when the Workers' Party justifies it because you can streamline and rationalize the company, and that you can save something on it. New roads are just in place to save money. It has just been established to operate more rationally and to have as few employees as possible in order to have a flexible, slim organisation, so that they can save fixed wages and fixed costs. Then it's better to rent in peak skills the few times you need it, than to have people employed permanently, because then one would get more costs and more expenses with New Roads. So until digitalization, as the Workers' Party points out, is a possible saving for New Roads: it's almost as if the Workers' Party has been involved in how New Roads are organized, and how it works. They're in the forefront of digitization. They are, as far as I know, one of the first to start luckyitalized tendering processes. This has not been the case in the past in Norway. So either the Workers' Party hasn't been involved in how New Roads work, or they come up with empty arguments for fun. In terms of planning processes, New Roads are already working very efficiently with inter-municipal planning processes, which have never been used in Norwegian road construction before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1580	The representative, Jon Gunnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1585	This is an answer to some challenges in Trøndelag. The national transport plan has clear priorities for Tread layers, for electrification by 2023, and double tracks shall be considered when the cost and social economy report is available. It's at work. It was said that the state prioritizes bicycle routes, but it is clear that when the highway – E6 – is built in Trondheim, it must also follow with money for bicycles and corridors. There are now proposals to use those funds. It surprises me that we say no to these means.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1592	The representative, Kirsti Leirtrø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1597	I have to speak when the Council of State criticises the previous government for the broadband bet and boasts of this government's broadband bet. In the previous government period, the annual figure was 200 million. kr earmarked for county councils, for broadband. That was $1.30. kr in regional development funds used by county councils for broadband. Today, the county council and the municipalities contribute to the needs of broadband – of what they would have liked to have used for other things. So I think this falls on its own unfairness. The districts are due with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1602	One speaks of it ‘falling on its own unreasonableness’, with a closing claim that the districts fall due under today’s government. Unemployment is lower in districts than elsewhere. The fishing industry has never improved. We are now maintaining the roads in District Norway that have expired before. There is more to building new jobs in the districts now than before. The level of investment on the road has tripled in North Norway. There's nothing to suggest that District Norway is losing compared to the rest of the country. If one goes into the national transport plan presented under the red-green government, one will see that in kronor per capita Oslo and Akershus received more than the West, more than the South, more than the Middle Norway – to mention some areas. In the national transport plan presented by today's government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the West gets more per capita than Oslo and Akershus, Middle Norway gets more per capita than Oslo and Akershus, the South gets more per capita than Oslo and Akershus, the Inland gets more per capita than Oslo and Akershus, and North Norway gets more per capita than Oslo and Akershus. That's the very opposite of what an attempt to create a picture of in this debate. It makes no sense, I think, that we should run and discuss those kinds of things when we were really going to discuss the visions of infrastructure and mobility in this country. I tried to include it in my main post, but I see that the rest of the debate has really been trying to create a rather strange picture. A central party representative also said that after today's government took over, you feel that Oppland has been completely forgotten. I just want to remind you that one of the first trips I took as Minister of Transport was to travel to Uppland to deliver extra money to the E16 Bagn–Bjørgo project, so that they could actually get money to plan. The project was in the national transport plan, the red-greens can boast of it, but there were no planning means there to keep progress. I took the trip and distributed more state resources, so that the tolls could be reduced. The response in this debate is that Uppland is down-priority. No, fact is the opposite. It is quite right that the Vosseban train sets were falling apart – to use that type of rhetoric – but you sat for eight years and knew that the situation was like that without ordering new ones. The order came with the majority of the day. I sincerely believe that then it is important to say, you know what, we've done something good. So that doesn't mean we're done with the project. I don't give the impression that everything is good now, but I point out that the policy that the majority is pursuing today provides far better results for cities and districts – for Northern Norway, the South, the Western and Eastern countries – than what we saw before, simply because the money is spent more efficiently and distributed where the need is. That is why the three counties with the worst broadband coverage have received two and three increases in support schemes, while the previous government spread the money flat to all counties, regardless of need. I think that's a bad policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1614	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1619	I just want a brief explanation of the Minister's explanation. In the Central Party's budget, we've prioritised 0.5 billion. kr in broadband grants for which it is not commercially viable to expand, and that is the maximum of the EEA legislation that allows us to do so. In the government's proposal, priority was 69.7 million. kr, and then the cooperation parties have managed to negotiate it. It's not like we've created a budget that's not realistic, we've prioritised max. When the council tries to say that we're throwing away money or promising more than we keep, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1624	We are approaching the end of the debate. I see that new actors, who are going to solve completely different and major world problems, have entered the Chamber. There have been many claims during this debate that I think it is worth commenting on. There have been a number of representatives from the Workers' Party who have wanted to speed up their projects – one project better than the other. But the Workers' Party does not have the money to implement these projects, even though the party has written out more than 8 billion. kr more in taxes and taxes than the government proposed. There is therefore a complete disparity between what local representatives from each state want and laws in local media, and what the Workers' Party is able to deliver. This is -- yes, you can almost use the expression 'a little unprofessional'. The point is at least that there is not a real priority in what the Workers' Party is presenting, as long as you promise everything and – I had almost said – nothing and don't have money for it. So to the Trønderban, which there's been a lot of discussion about: NTP was adopted a few months ago. Yes, we're going to electrify the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen. There's been an exceedance of 600 million. kr on that project. 600 million. kr is a lot of money, even in the transport sector. Then it is our responsibility to go through the costs and check whether it is possible to stay within the cost framework, because if not the same parties who believe we should implement with a new cost framework, also think something about which projects are to be postponed or rejected. Roads: Yes, this government and this majority have provided more roads than the previous national transport plan provided. We have strengthened the local economy and at the same time strengthened the transfers via the Ministry of Transport budget: 1.6 billion. SEK in 2018 for upgrading, renewal and tunnel renewal and SEK 759 million. kr for breed protection. So it's a little over 2.4 billion. kr in total, in addition to the route through its framework grants. To present it as if there is almost no bet on the county roads, I find it strange. A quick visit to broadband: we've had that discussion throughout the day. We lose a lot of perspective in broadband, simply because we're just focusing on the grant scheme. The grant scheme is available to cover areas that are not commercially viable. Over 10 B.C.E. kr was used in 2016 to expand broadband and the ecosystem in Norway. We have to take this into account when looking at the totality, and we have to take it into account also when considering the overall broadband coverage. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1637	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1642	May I give a small explanation of vote, because a proposal has been made, proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1647	You can give an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1652	The proposal by the Christian People's Party is a follow-up to what is in the national transport plan, and right will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1657	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1662	What we're discussing here today, about how much money is going to be spent on different projects, is something that means a lot out there. It's quick to go wild in the discussion of what kind of priorities you want to do, and not least about how much you want to do. The centre party has chosen to prioritise more money precisely because infrastructure is so important if people are to live and live where they do, and not least so that we can get the export income that the welfare state needs. In a previous life, I have worked quite a lot with county roads and transportation in Norway. When one tries to make it from this pulpit, last from the representative Helge Orten, as if there's been a lot more money for county roads, that's not right. Because when transfers to county councils do not follow price and cost increases, there will be no more room for prioritisation within the framework of the free revenues. It's not related. The counties shall meet the needs of them in higher education, where they wish to get more people to implement. We need to increase the number of people taking public transport, including in our smaller and medium-sized cities, we need to focus on dental health, that is public health, we need to be able to provide some cultural services, and not least we need to be able to spend huge sums on the renewal and maintenance of county roads. I have boasted to the Council of State in the past that I have given priority to re-entering the national highways. That's good. The problem is that we have a comprehensive transport network that does not have the opportunity to participate in the reduction of the delays, as the budget framework provides. It is particularly important to record that you, for example: has not mentioned that the Central Party believes that there should be an increase in the investment in anti-slip protection, most recently from the representative Finstad, who thought it smelled asphalt throughout the Nordic region, and that there were many new tunnels. This can be seen from the budgets of the different states – that it is a reality that can vote in large numbers, but that does not vote out there when you go down and make the real priorities. Securing our citizens' safe roads, so that we get down the number of hard damage and killed in traffic, is a task that we should have taken more seriously, and that requires a longer debate on how to solve it, than what we're doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1685	It's approaching the end of the debate, and I want to sum up the debate as follows: It's a fantastic budget of 67.5 billion. kr, which goes to transportation, and large parts of the debate have been about a few million to broadband. Then it must be a brilliant budget, and I am glad that it is the Right Party government that, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, now agrees on the budget. This suggests that this creates the most peace. There have been a number of Labour Party representatives on top of the pulpit and greeted home to projects for which they have money. It is also referred to – Sverre Myrli in his post – that the Workers' Party had 7 billion. kr more in its NTP over the 12-year period. That's quite right, then they promised a little to get here and a little to there – for a lot of purposes, certainly well-meaning and good. It was both track and road that was to be covered. But in reality, these costs are close to 50 billion. kr – 70 br. kr. That would be a good application for the Lucerne. Now the Labour Party continues its budget in a good way. You frame different projects. I can mention some of them, only on the railway, where they've increased by 200 million. kr for railway investments. If you think it's 2.1 billion. For railway planning, we can set this up against each other. I read out: increased bet on intercity development Dovrebanen, intercity development Østfoldbanen, intercity Vestfoldbanen, intercity Ringeriksbanen, reinforcement of measures on Gjøvikbanen, Kongswingerbanen, capacity increase for action in the Oslo area, new Oslo tunnel, planning of double tracks on the railway and Ofotbanen, and last but not least, electrification of the Tronderbanen. It alone has probably pledged 160 million to Ingvild Kjerkol, the Workers' Party. Add kr. Now it's 40 million. kr again – perhaps not much to greet home with. It was also a good application for the case of Luxury. We experience here that the country's largest opposition party – the Labour Party governing party, was called for many years – did not have the ability to give priority. Once again they go on with the Luxus trap, promising many projects, without money, just as in the previous NTP. Previously, we heard in this room that it was great that this government followed up the NTP they had created. I said that time and time again, no, fortunately we didn't, then the decay had increased a lot, much more. Now we've increased significantly beyond the NTP that the red-green ones made. Fortunately, we are now running after a new NTP, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The land must be built. The maturity declines, security increases, security increases, mobility increases. Then we have an SV in this debate, which is obviously opposite the motorway – we knew, there's nothing new about it – but I do admire people's roads, safe roads, good roads. I dare them to get back and forth from work, get back and forth in everyday travel. Security shall pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1699	When we listen to the not so constructive opposition on the Stortinget, which has no kind of cooperation with the government, one can get the impression that things are going really bad here in the country, that almost nothing has been done in the last four years, that everything has been completely silent. We're not building any railways or any roads. We do not operate with any tailoring – nothing happens – or with ferries. It's going really, really bad. And then you might have a little bit of a blindfold for your own eyes and ears -- and one and the other. You probably forgot what you did when you were in government. Now I'm not going to go through the whole lesson about what they did and didn't do, but it's actually happened a lot over the last four years. It's just to remember, for example. the rail back-up, which only increased and increased under the red-green. I don't know the exact number, but I see that the council will come after me – he probably has the exact number. I wonder if it was 1 billion. kr in the year on average it increased – maybe even more – but they don't want to talk about it. We were the ones who helped to finally start the railway run down. And then they come and complain. It's completely incomprehensible. This has become the complaint chair, it seems – instead of the complaint wall. There have been important things: we have lifted the road. Several bicycle paths have been built. There is more to bet on rail, more on collective – more on most. That's the amazing thing. The NTP that I got the honour of participating in the last period, of 1000 billion. kr, is the most forward-looking NTP ever that has been possible to get through here. Even it's not the unconstructive opposition satisfied with. Not only are we going to build outer intercity, we're going to build a new train tunnel under Oslo, which wasn't planned under the previous government. Not only have we dreamed about 50 pst. to the Fornebuban and to e.g. The city track, we deliver it too – we're not just talking about it. The Ringeriksbanen – which I know even the representative Martin Kolberg is busy – we have apparently talked about for over a hundred years in this country, long before my people came here. We have helped to ensure that the Ringerix track is now being built. It is no longer an illusion, now it is both in the NTP and is given priority over money. There are also some other urban railway projects, such as Ullandhaug. Lower Rome-rich track solution, which I'm very busy with, is ready to roll out when you've managed to finish the other projects. It's also 2.3 billion. kr in the year’s budget for various public transport schemes. I am very pleased with how we build the country. I am very pleased with the cooperation we have with the Progress Party, which has the Transport Councils of the Government, and I look forward to continuing this good cooperation for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1712	Let me thank the Left and Christian People's Party for having a budget where the numbers are actually linked. When we look at the opposition, there is no correlation between what the parties propose, and there are major internal problems in each budget – it bears the mark of the luxury trap, as several have said. I have noted something down. From the Workers' Party, the representative Haukeland Liadal has requested the start of E134, but without giving money. The representative of Lauvås requires faster propulsion at the E18 in Akershus, without giving money. Ten railway bets are promised, but the money is already spent before you're done with the Trønderbahn. One requires more maintenance on the roads, without giving money. The representative, Leirtrø, warns against foreign actors, without mentioning that contracts went ten times more often to foreigners under the red-green government than today. The representative Lyngedal from the Workers' Party will have several road projects in the north, including: tunnel in Narvik, but without giving money. The representative of Ingarill Olsen from the Workers' Party will have accelerated both Rv. 94 and Rv. 93, but forget to grant money. I think it is good if we can develop Norwegian entrepreneurs to do even more of the job. We've seen good results. But if we're going to get it done, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to have to pay them for the job. They don't work for free. To present a lot of demands in the Stortinget, to travel around, to write a reader's letter in the Ringeriksblad about the Ringeriksbanen, to write in the Trunder-Avisa about the Trenderbanen, to write letters in the Jærbladet and the Dalane Journal about the Jærbanen, but not to give money to what is said to happen, it is not credible. Similarly, on the railway side, we've now seen that we're going to have faster progress on IC, but we don't have money for it. And then you talk about things being delayed. Let me just remind you that none of the projects located in the outer intercity had received a crown in the national transport plan that was adopted under the red-green government. Even when it came to planning materials for internal intercity, today's government has granted more than twice as much as the red-green government itself proposed. If you think that progress has been too short, too small, too slow, then the economic framework as a self-planla from the red-green government was not suitable to get to where we are once. It's okay to realize that there actually has to be a connection between what you promise, and what you're thinking about financing. Let me also just remind the representative Myrli, who was concerned about the pensions of the railway staff, that there is actually an agreement in place, which is going up to the worst vote in a week. So there's been an agreement between the trade unions and the NSB. It's not right that this is unclear. There has not been any more red tape in the railways, for the companies that have now become independent were all units under the NSB before, but now serve the entire public sector, and not just the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1725	The President would like to remind you that government councils should also address their comments to the President and not to the dear representatives of the Chamber. The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1732	I could not help but be provoked by the representative Johnsen, who tried to put us in a pretty bad light because we do not want to do the post completely. He believes that we want mail distribution without mail. Obviously, it would have been very stupid. Private Kvikkas gets about 100 million. kr to distribute subscription newspapers on Saturdays – i.e. for one day. The item Norway will receive 165 million. kr to carry mail around five days, as added. The need might be 500 million. kr. So there's something here. That was what was important for me to find out in the comment. It might be possible not to take so hard. There's something about shaving without the whole chin coming along – I'd like to say to the representative Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1739	The representative Ivar Odnes has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1744	As a representative of the ‘unconstructive opposition’, I must say that the opposition has actually made a number of proposals, including: Do we want a holistic aviation strategy to be developed for Norway, as a single programming message? This is especially important now when you see the discussion going on in Upper Rome around the Gardermoen and the third runway. The centre party is excited that we are going to have an important short-haul aircraft network, which serves and connects the country even more strongly – especially with the new county division, where we have got the gigantic state in the north with Troms and Finnmark. With as large travel distances as we have up there, we have to make sure to rig ourselves in a new way so that Troms and Finnmark actually work together. Finally, I would just like to say that the Central Party supports proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1753	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1758	I'll be very short. I just want to refer to proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will be voting in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1763	The head of the committee said something like that that we were about to address the major international issues. Let me then contribute to it here on the tap by saying a few words about the railway through Moss, since we actually also have a case about it for treatment here today. I would simply like to say that it is now time to get started on the development of the railway through Moss. The working party supports what is proposed - there is no need for rematches now. It has been largely a good and factual debate, but the low point in today's debate was in favour of Tom-Christer Nilsen. He described the Workers' Party's proposal that the State should contribute 70 p.m. to large collective investment in a highly unprofessional way. He claimed that this would result in higher tolls in the districts and lower tolls in the cities. It was a very district enemy proposal, he claimed. How much strange is it really possible to say from the Greatness Chair? How much unprofessional is it really possible to say from the Storting pulpit? And that of one who has been both the State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport and the County rapporteur. I think there's something I can promise for sure, is that there's not going to be any lower tolls in Oslo or the other big cities. So finally, I'm surprised at how backward government parties are in the transport debate today. Even when we discuss the future, when we discuss broadband, digital infrastructure, and the digitisation of society, one of the big questions of our time, the figures of the government parties look back 5, 10, 20 years. It is used more on broadband now than under the previous government, it is said. Yes, that would certainly just be missing. Of course, digitalization is more used now than it was before. I can tell the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party that it is more used for digitisation than what was done under Stoltenberg, than what was done under Bondevik, Jagland, Brundtland, Syse and Willoch. In fact, it does, and it's going to be more used on broadband, digitalisation and digital infrastructure in the years to come. I recommend that the figures of the government parties stop being backward – look ahead and build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1774	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1779	This was actually an attempt – for my own part, at least – to end this debate. It has been an interesting but also predictable debate. I just have a little comment for the representative Myrli. If I understood the representative Tom-Christer Nilsen correctly, his point was the fact that the Workers' Party is opposed to cutting tolls in the districts, but at the same time is willing to invest more in the cities. That's what he then defined as a district enemy action, just so it's said. But besides that, I discovered today that I was missing the representative Raja. The representative made a good point, but what I missed most was the commitment. It was refreshing at the end of the debate. Otherwise, I think we all need a good Christmas break, so thank you for an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1789	In those parts of the country where the railway is now becoming a priority, it becomes extra obvious because the Right Party and the Advance Party boast so unhindered by the state in general in the country. Then it's pretty obvious that there's someone who's deliberately down-prioritized. Since the treatment of the national transport plan, the Workers' Party has been very clear that the railway is due to go to Hamar in 2024, and then to Lillehammer in 2030. There's been a joint uprising about it, but we see that when it comes to the piece and the money is actually to be distributed, it's the Inland that is once again being down-prioritized by this government. People at grassroots notice this, because there's so much distance between words and action, and the explanation of why the railroad is down priorities, has obvious logical flaws and shortcomings. If we are to start the practical development of the railways, we must at least have made the preparatory work clear. The Minister of Transport blames for the fact that we have to see the plan in its entirety and therefore have to postpone it. But then at least we have to have the work clear and everything to take care of, the day we're actually going to put the shovel in the ground. It is the Workers' Party clearly on, and as we write, we expect the Tang station and new road to this start in 2018, so that we can actually start the railway development in the Inland. In fact, politics is about priority, and the Labour Party has been crystal clear on our priority: we want young people, children, commuters and the elderly to have a good rail service in the interior, and that is what we stand by all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1800	In these Christmas times -- it was Christmas table to say all the parties yesterday -- Civita had to invite someone who might be awake in time, a Muslim, to come to the lunch meeting, even to discuss the theme "You Without Jesus?". Then it's tempting to tell the committee leader the place that no you, so easily you don't get Christmas – you probably have to wait a little longer. President – the speech goes through the President, of course: I thought I should comment on the comments of the representative Sverre Myrlis, because he goes up and describes the representative Tom-Christer Nilsen, who, in the opinion of Myrlis, kept the day's low by a post. I do not know if it brings the debate any further to mention other colleagues' speeches as low. Then I noticed that I was a little uncertain about what Myrli really meant, because when he came to the question of tolls, he said, and I think I quote correctly now, "Something I can promise." Then he fixed himself reasonably quickly afterwards to say: quite sure that. So it makes me a little insecure -- because I think there's a little difference between promising something and being quite sure about something -- about what the Workers' Party really means when it comes to tolls. Do they promise this, as a guarantee, or are they quite sure of this? It's okay just to clarify it while the debate is still here, and I think the representative Myrli has at least one post to which he can subscribe. So it's okay to get that clarification. In the left, for our part, we are very pleased with the national transport plan we have made. I mean it spread the course further for Norway. Take, for example: Fornebubanen, like the population of Asker and Bærum – and the others who commute to Fornebu, and not least those who live there – have waited long enough. And in the case of this dream that these 50 pst. would come, as I've heard how what I'm going to call the opposition that's not so constructive, has always talked about, is now they're actually being delivered. We've also heard that the Ringerix Railway didn't come fast enough. It is hoped that the current government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, will help to make the Ringerix track even faster than what we have set up, but knowingly – or at least you will want to forget it – that you didn't do anything when you were in government to actually provide the means to realize the Ringeriksban that you would like to have. Then, as a representative from Akershus, I am very concerned about the tunnel that comes under Oslo. It will help at least to double the capacity of the train exits, and it is absolutely necessary that it be put in place, so that we can get rid of all the capacity increase that we need if we are to complete InterCity Ringerijk. It'll still be a plug if you don't build a new tunnel. So I'm very happy that we've got in place, and I'm looking forward to keeping a good progress, also for that tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1815	It is a bit interesting to have followed a number of local debates through the media, where the opposition promises that if they only get a pass, their road project or their railway project will be accelerated. So all of the same representatives in this room meet here, and it's pretty obvious that there's not money for everything. In the case of the 200 million. kr as the Workers' Party promises for the railway, as we just got an example that obviously should go to Hamar and Lillehammer faster, it is sad to complain to the representative that that money has already been promised away in Trondelag, on Ringerijk, on the Jærbanen, on the Dovrebanen and on the Eastfold Railway. It is not possible to hold on to this, one must be able to prioritize, and that is a bit why one has mentioned this with the luxury trap sometimes. It is also a bit interesting to think back on the election campaign, because what I was met with from the Workers' Party then was that there was too much priority in the East, the money has to go to the West. Now we heard that there must be more money for the East, and then we can wonder where the Workers' Party is going to take that money from. These include: by increasing tolls in the districts. I don't think it's good politics. It is also a bit interesting to hear claims that many projects are delayed. Project for which there were zero dollars in their national transport plan under the previous government is said to have now been severely delayed, although they have started long before the end of the period in red-green NTP. It concerns the Ringerix track, it concerns Arna-Voss and others. However, let me conclude by not creating more brilliance, but pointing out that what we should also spend time in a debate like this was to discuss how we organize our sector, what kind of reforms we need to spend the money more efficiently, and how we should organise things to get things done more comprehensively. Instead of discussing which month a project is finished, we should discuss how we can organize it to get more for the money, so we not only discuss the first comma on the route, but right forward. Today's majority have provided for reforms both in the road sector, in the rail sector, in coastal management and in aviation, one has improved the economic framework conditions, one has gained independent roadside supervision and the other. Virtually all of this has been protests from the opposition. Now we're starting to get the benefits of it by cutting costs, and of course casher opposition it into its budget, but it's good to remember that the gain had not been there if the resistance from the opposition had been there from the beginning. In addition, state agencies are enormously forward-looking in the use of technical aids, ranging from autonomous vehicles to remote systems for digitisation and new rail signalling. I think that's very good. The fact that one has the scope of digitalisation and technology use in the state sector, I believe, in itself, is a sign that one has understood the importance of having digital infrastructure at the bottom, with reference to the discussion that has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1830	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1835	To Abid Q. Raja, I want to say that before one comes into the room and blows up both bass and treble in the speaker system, it's an idea to get into and hear the debate – what has been said earlier. So it was the representative Nilsen who claimed that the Labour Party’s policy would lead to higher tolls in the districts and lower tolls in the cities. That's when I said I can promise that there won't be any lower tolls in the cities. So I didn't promise that there would be lower tolls, I said the opposite. And the way politics is, I think we're all going to be honest about it, that both in Oslo and the other big cities, there's going to be tolls -- pretty high tolls -- in the years that come. That was my point, and I'm pretty sure it's also going to be the policy that's being pursued in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1842	It is amazing that the Minister of Transport is going up here and critical of the Workers' Party's priority of the railways in the interior, when Prime Minister Erna Solberg, the Minister of State of the Municipal Council and the Minister of Agriculture used parts of their election campaign to travel to Hedmark to give the impression that they would have developed the same railway route. So he obviously has an important educational task to do in the government if he wants to go against railway development in the Inland. Then he must direct some speakers internally in his own forum. Then it is that this railway development should contain the longest railway bridge built so far in Norway – not the longest distance between words and action from a Norwegian government. Here, it's clear tasks to deal with the government, and you have to decide whether you're in favour of or against rail development. The Minister of Transport has been very clear that he wants to downgrade that project. The Labour Party is still clear that we stand on what we have always said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1849	Is it strange that we need a strong diplomacy in the world when we get the kind of interpretation of the post that I was holding right now? No, we're not going to deprioritize the railways to the Inland. No, we're not going to cut the appropriations. No, we're not planning any less. If you look at what's in the budget that the government has presented, you'll see that we've increased the planning funds year after year – almost 2.5 billion. kr now to plan new projects. I just have to remind you that it's a five-fold from the Workers' Party five years ago. That's not deprioritising. That's to prioritize. As I pointed out, my criticism is not that the Workers' Party says they want to bet on the railway. My criticism is that there is no connection between what they say they will bet on and the appropriations they propose. The working party does not have a crown to implement what the representative was just up to and said was important. It's throwing blues in people's eyes. One cannot govern a state by telling the government that the railway project is important, you have to work on it, without one financing it, so that they can do the job. That's what it is to be the manager and not go into the luxury trap and promise everything without being able to steer in a conscious direction. We're going to have the targets that are in the NTP. We're going to Hamar by 2024, we've said that. Then there are problems that have to be solved, but there we work well with local authorities, with Bane NOR and with our local representatives. But the kind of argument that one hears here, where a twisting trill around what has been said by me and others on the civil side, is at least not contributing to a constructive solution. So to Tom-Christer Nilsen's statement, there was no contradiction in what he said. He has listened to the debate, as I perceived it. He has heard that the Workers ’ Party will not be involved in cutting tolls in the districts. There, the Workers' Party cuts the allocation in its alternative state budget. I believe that the Workers' Party accepts that is the facts. Then he has heard several Labour Party representatives say in this debate that the increased state support in the context of urban growth agreements, where one is to increase the state share from 50 pst. to 70 p.m., among others would go to cut the toll percentage. Ergo is right. I see the representative Myrli shaking his head. Then I think we should read the minutes, and then one will see that the Labour Party here in this debate has spoken with two tongues. But I record that the Transport Policy spokesman for the Workers' Party says they should not use the increased state resources to cut tolls. It's a contradiction with the representative Tajik said when she was running election campaigns on the North-Jear, where she promised to increase state resources to reduce the tolls in the North-Jear package because now the bomb tariffs were so high that it went beyond the people's economy, especially the poor part of society. Now the Labour Party denies that this is politics. I think it is very elucidating, and then we get to take the debate as the facts are presented that it has been spoken with two tongues from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1860	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1865	We need a brief comment here: it is very interesting that the Minister of Transport first criticises the Workers' Party's plan to get the railway to Hamar in 2024, so to speak, that he wants to get it to Hamar in 2024. The point is short and good that if that goal is to be achieved, the work must start in 2018. That is what the Labour Party's policy takes into account, for which the Right Party and the Advance Party have no money in their state budget. That's the truth. The Minister of Transport himself knows that well. Local representatives know that. No matter how much you had to shake your head, that's the fact. At least it is good with a clarifying debate, and we hope and believe that what was said in the last speech from this pulpit that the goal is at hand, in line with the policy we have before, is actually being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1872	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1 and 2. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1934	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines of response from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1945	It was stated in the transport debate on the part of the Minister for Transport that the debate had gone so fast that it was not strange that diplomats were needed. I might like to draw attention to the fact that Norwegian diplomats are not in the service of a debate on transport, and it must almost take place the way it does. It's good that we have a heated discussion about domestic transportation. We are living in a demanding foreign policy situation. We do not experience the predictability that we are accustomed to at our most important allies, and at the same time our neighbor in the east is more self-reliant than before. Human rights are under pressure, the respect of international law is weakened, and there is little progress in international trade negotiations and disarmament negotiations. At the same time, we know that poverty in the world is reduced. Never in the history of the world have so many people lived in prosperity, and as Norway evolved through free trade and aid, driven by the transatlantic post-war cooperation, we see that trade and aid bring millions of people out of poverty. There is broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. Just as in our Nordic neighbouring countries, there is a great deal of willingness to find a wide-ranging agreement on defence, and most parties end up on European policy and the EEA Agreement. That is why cooperation is going to shape Stortinget's work with the three new state councils here today: the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for European Affairs and the Minister for Defence. The weakness of consensus is that there will be too little discussion on foreign and defence policy and on important priorities for Norway. We will continue to use the Enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for formal consultations, but as far as possible for general discussions, because the debate must take place in this Chamber, in open meetings and in the media. I look forward to cooperation and more debate in the next few years. In the spring, Stortinget adopted a notice on road choices in Norwegian foreign policy. The government announced bold choices, clear priorities and increased responsibility for security in the neighbourhoods. But it's not as much as it reminds me of choices in this budget. The fact that important steps in the road pick-up message have already been put in the drawer suggests that the message will be of little importance in the coming years, but with new foreign ministers, there is hope for a clearer line and clearer priorities. The size has high ambitions anyway. The size has also adopted important principles of Norwegian aid, such as poverty orientation and predictability for civil society, following a shadow announcement promoted by the Christian People's Party in spring. I believe that the treatment of the Christian People's Party proposal by the Storting is poorly reflected, in the government's draft budget, and it is a problem that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not deal with decisions taken in the Stortinget. In reality, there is very little popular control over how the budget is distributed. The cooperation parties protest, but they don't really do anything basic about this. The Labour Party believes that we need to provide more assistance where we can make a big difference. After the new administration in the United States, there is one area in particular that points out: women's rights in general and women's sexual rights in particular. After several years of cuts, the government has returned to 2013 level. It's not a trick, it's a clear down-priority. Norway is no longer at the forefront in this area — Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium are in the driving seat. Trump’s so-called ‘gag rule’ not only affects women’s ability to commit safe abortions in conflict areas, where we know that there is much greater risk of rape and sexualized violence. Women in crisis may be forced to bring forth children they do not want, when the Americans cut so hard in their budgets. But the rule also involves a mouth basket. It reduces the freedom of expression of organisations fighting for self-determined abortion. If they do, support for their other health projects is also cut, whether they are vaccines or birth aid. Today, we see that many poor countries evolve because of aid and trade, as Norway and Europe evolved after the war, with trade agreements and Marshall aid. Now we see that the resistance to free trade is increasing both in Europe and in the United States. Important areas for Norway must therefore be to support labour standards and to contribute to a more balanced distribution in the countries where we provide assistance. Work on tax havens should be a key priority for Norway. Nuclear weapons are a greater threat than before. There is little progress in the international disarmament negotiations, and the Iran agreement, the one area in which we are actually seeing progress, is strongly countered by forces in the United States and the new administration. The Stortinget expects a more active Norwegian work for disarmament. The International Atomic Energy Treaty exerts increasing pressure on the nuclear powers to carry out disarmament, but disarmament cannot succeed without the nuclear powers being involved and implementing balanced, verifiable and reciprocal disarmament. Thousands of people have been killed because of a lack of respect for international law in eastern Ukraine. European countries are united in the requirement to implement the Minsk Agreement. We also agree on respect for international law in the matter of Jerusalem, but also here the major acts play a different role. On the part of the Labour Party, we demand respect for international law, so we end up with restrictive measures against Russia. We want trade and cooperation with Israel, but not trade in goods produced on occupied land in violation of international law. Brexit poses new challenges for Norwegian trade with the United Kingdom. We have confidence in the work of the EU/EEA Minister in this area. The aim must be that trade and freedom of movement between Norway and the United Kingdom can continue even after the British leave the European Union. When the British leave the EU, an even greater proportion of NATO’s budget will come from outside the EU, and NATO will therefore become even more important in the coming years. With our new fighter aircraft, we must defend Norwegian territory, which is the most sea and the most north. This year, too, the budget involves large but absolutely necessary investments in combat aircraft. Unfortunately, the Land Power Plan did not have any impact on the defence budget for 2018. This means that we have adopted two budgets for the Grand Duchy without having any impact on the country's power over the long term. It violates, in my opinion, the whole principle of long-term planning in defence. Increased ambitions need to be followed up in specific budgets. We want to strengthen the activity of the Army and the Home Office in this budget. That's what the government should be doing. Increases in activity in Air Force and Maritime Defense are good, but there is no increase in Army activity. That's not good enough. There we have greater ambitions. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for this. In the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, what happens every year again. It's taking a few million from the Defense Department. It's simply too weak. We look forward to cooperation and more money for Defence in the revised spring, for the framework of the long-term plan is obviously not large enough to achieve the goals of increased fighting power. I would like to address the proposal we have with SV in case No. Three, and the proposal we are alone in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1975	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1980	In a brief article, I would like to focus on talking about foreign policy and development policy, and in particular about what can be linked to the budget, which, after all, is the background for us to discuss this, and not a general foreign policy statement. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that another speaker on the Right will go further in the field of defence, Framework 8. Previous speeches indicated that there could be some concern about consensus, because it allegedly had to put a lid on a living foreign policy debate. It is not my opinion after following this area particularly intensively after the formation of the Stortinget. It's a lively debate. At the same time, I think we should be clear that what we as a small nation can agree on, what brings us together, is also what is Norway's external strength. That means that in some contexts, for example, when we are dealing here with budgetary positions or other issues relating to both foreign policy and defence, we are working together on what we can stand together about, and we are shooting the party markings out on other occasions. In this way, we avoid foreign policy becoming, in reality, domestic policies in disguise. Let me start by saying that it is a broad majority for, as expressed in the vote, that we express as an objective of foreign policy to safeguard and promote Norwegian interests, our values, our security and our well-being. Our foreign policy shall be based on clear priorities, ensure the fulfilment of our obligations towards our allies, be anchored in liberal values and have as its primary objective the safeguarding of central national interests. A foreign policy based on binding international cooperation ensures that the main lines of Norwegian foreign and development policy are firmly established. Norway shall be a constructive party in NATO, in the UN and in other international organisations, but in our own part of the world pursue a European policy that ensures Norwegian enterprises market access, as well as other agreements and consultations with the EU in order to compensate for our being outside the EU's political cooperation. Norway must show solidarity and focus on cooperation with our allies in NATO and our European partners. Uncertainty about the forthcoming shift in foreign policy is what we need, at least, with the security policy behind us today. Collapsed states on the doorstep of Europe shape the world and put European cohesion to the test. Nor are Norwegian interests served by the divisive trends you can see in the West – from Catalonia to Brexit and by our main security allies, the United States. In recent years, the government has increased efforts in Europe’s neighbourhoods in terms of both development cooperation and humanitarian aid. Norway has contributed a total of 2.3 billion. kr to Syria and neighbouring countries, and this will be at an equivalent level in 2018. A significant part of this aid is granted to refugees, including: channelled through the UN High Commissioner. The 2018 budget proposes to continue a core support to the High Commissioner of 350 million. kr. The total contribution would then be 758.9 million. kr. This is the practical follow-up to the leader(s) of the Report. St. 36 for 2016-2017, referred to as the Roadmap Communication for Foreign Policy, which just provided for increased efforts in the neighbourhoods, which in this budget is being implemented through significant allocations to vulnerable countries and neighbourhoods: Middle East, North Africa, Horn of Africa and Balkan countries. Support for the UN Migration Agency has been increased from approx. 70 million. SEK in 2016 to over 82 million. kr in 2017. It is also worth highlighting government cooperation with the EU and, in particular, with relevant EU countries in order to address migration challenges. The EEA funds have been used to build up the management of foreigners, including: in Greece. In the next round of the allocation of Norwegian EEA funds, asylum and migration issues will form an essential part of the agreements with Greece, Romania and Bulgaria. I simply cannot agree with the previous speeches in that one deviates from the big messages and choices that have been made with an overall collapse in the back, and I am pleased to see that the government has followed up the main priorities of Norwegian foreign and defence policy through the proposal that was promoted by the Stortinget, and that the main line has not been changed through the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e1999	Let me first say a few words to the committee chairman, who begins almost every post by saying that there is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy and Norwegian defence policy. That's so true, but there are so many areas where there's actually no consensus about single things and events in the world, and then you can focus on it if you want a discussion, instead of just telling everyone that everything is agreed. I think the world is in a development that is quite daunting, and there are many who have different views of the challenges that we see around us. The world is in the middle of a sea of civil wars and conflicts – alliances are being challenged, and loyalty ties are changing from day to day. Common to many of these conflicts and wars is that different groups of Muslim extremists are behind them. Of course, it can be claimed – as many people do – that these groupings misinterpret the message of Islam, but the realities on the ground are nevertheless that many of these groups use or abuse Islam to justify their actions. In a chronicle in Aftenposten 30 September 2012, the current claims representative Abid Q. Raja writes that most Muslim boys get a hatred against Americans, Jews and homosexuals, and that if someone violates Muhammad, they must be fought, shot or killed. Furthermore, he writes that this comes in with the breast milk, consciously or unconsciously. However, I refuse to believe that this is as widespread as the representative Raja claims, but it is in any case not unreasonable to assume that such prejudices and lack of tolerance, equivalence and pluralism are very widespread in many Muslim countries. The challenge is reinforced by the fact that many of the civil wars are also territorial, based on history, demography and various loyalties. I mention this because it makes clear how difficult it is for Western democracies to force solutions that contribute to peace and reconciliation, and it must be admitted that the West has not succeeded in a somewhat indefinable war against terrorism, the fight against fundamentalism or the introduction of democratic institutions. Neither financial assistance, the reception of refugees, attempts at negotiations, nor the use of weapons have brought us any closer to peace. Against this background, Norway, like other Western countries, has to carry out a self-examination. More of the same thing is very unlikely to be the solution. Norway’s interests are naturally sufficiently safeguarded by maintaining a solid defence of its own territory. The government therefore strengthens its defence and our relationship with NATO. We also strengthen the ties with our leading ally, the United States. The long-term plan, including the recently adopted structure of the country's power, shows that the government is conscious of its responsibility. Article 5 of NATO is a regional military insurance that creates trust between 29 countries. The NATO Treaty is based on the aims and foundations of the UN Charter and the desire of nations to live in peace with all peoples and governments. NATO shall ensure the rule of law, the freedom of the individual and the rule of law. Much has happened since NATO was formed. Several member countries have joined the alliance, and there is now a bigger gap between traditions, values and geography than it was in 1949. The NATO alliance is facing major challenges, which it will be demanding to solve. It is not only a matter of increasing national defence appropriations to 2 pst. of GDP, but perhaps as important are the principles that the members of the NATO Alliance are supposed to defend. It is not only a national territorial security, but also that countries have a system of governance based on the rule of law, the freedom of the individual and the rule of law. Developments in, inter alia: Turkey, but also in some other NATO countries, challenges these principles. Turkey is a central and important partner, both for Europe and for NATO, but there is cause for concern for the political and democratic development of the country. President Erdogan has shown authoritarian tendencies on several occasions, and arrests of university professors, journalists and public servants violate the principles of NATO, to which I referred. The restrictions imposed on the media are also not elevating. The premise of the Turkish-Russian approach is worrying. This applies to both military and operational — and to the acquisition of defence equipment. During my participation in the COSAC meeting in Tallinn a few weeks ago, I asked my Turkish colleague why Turkey as a NATO member chooses to acquire advanced weapons from Russia. I was then told that Turkey was forced to do this when no NATO country would sell advanced technological weapons to the country. It is worrying at several levels. Many have criticized the United States’ recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Well, so worrying is Wednesday's call from President Erdogan to 50 Muslim countries to recognise East Jerusalem as the capital of the Palestinians. In these ICAN times, it is also worth mentioning that nuclear weapons are a core component of NATO's defence capabilities. The weapon shall deter our potential enemies. There are increasing numbers of people who seem to be asking questions about this central part of Norwegian defence policy, including those who have had a more responsible line of defence and security policy in the past. The war against the IS in Syria is so to say over. Russia has begun its withdrawal. Assad seems to be safe. We must follow closely the role of Iran in Syria. It is not positive for the stability and peaceful development of the region if Iran establishes itself in the country. The BBC reported at the beginning of November that Iran was building a permanent military base 14 km south of Damascus. We must remember what kind of regime Iran is, and how the country has a long history of spreading terrorism, especially through Hezbollah in Lebanon. Budgetary unity means that Norway continues to be a major act of assistance. However, the budget for the year is significantly different from previous agreements by the majority stressing this year that the objective of the assistance is self-help. It's actually something completely new for Norway – and unlike the chairman of the committee, I think this is actually a revolutionary way of thinking about assistance. That the effectiveness of assistance can best be measured by recording the number of persons in the long term becoming independent of assistance must be the objective. The Progress Party welcomes that change, and we have always pointed out that assistance can only be considered successful if it is temporary. It is the countries themselves that have to take responsibility for and have ownership for their own development. Development comes from within and cannot be imposed or created from outside. The Norwegian aid debate has long had a narrow and one-sided goal of using 1 pst. of GNI. Such an objective naturally satisfies different stakeholder organisations and the core voters of the parties. However, for the beneficiaries of the assistance, the amount of assistance is not determined, but the money is used for measurable poverty reduction, effective education and, in the long term, a sustainable export industry. The government has begun an important effort to concentrate assistance around a smaller number of countries, fewer agreements and fewer issues of assistance. This work must continue. The government has also chosen to invest in aid that enables countries to stand on their own feet by doubling the aid for education, focusing on girls — from 1.7 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 3,4 billion. kr in 2017 – and to focus on business development and job creation. This effort will continue in the 2018 budget. The Progress Party is critical of the support given to the Palestinian self-government authorities. It is well documented that in the Palestinian territories it flourishes hate propaganda against Jews and against Israel. Terrorism and war are glorified in schools, in the media and in mosques. In this context, I will give tribute to the government, which requires the repayment of funds to a Palestinian centre for women on the West Bank, who was named after Dalal Mughrabi. This woman participated in a terrorist attack in Israel in 1978 that killed 37 civilians, including many children. The Progress Party encourages the government to impose stricter requirements on the money use of the Palestinian self-government authorities in the long term, e.g.: in the case of salaries paid to Palestinian prisoners and their families. Many of these are convicted terrorists. According to the online newspaper The Times of Israel, a total of 50 pst. by the donor support that The Palestinian National Authority, PA, expects to get in, to do this. Western donors, including Norway, have assured themselves that their donations are for good, but, on the other hand, assistance from Western countries contributes to the release of Palestinian funds to provide just wages to terrorists. We have to be aware of that. Finally, I would like to commend the government for its efforts to extend cross-border trade. Access to international markets strengthens the Norwegian economy, but it also strengthens our trading partners. Norway also needs a foreign policy that gives us access to international markets. The EEA Agreement contributes to this. Exports and imports are the best tool for creating global growth, prosperity and freedom. Global trade is undoubtedly a contribution to all these three overall objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2043	The green strand of the Central Party's economic priorities is to promote political stability, reconciliation and peace, development and a fairer distribution. Our efforts at national and international level must be based on international law and the rule of law. These practices must not be watered down by political neonymous speech. So I want to start the post with some superimposed reflections on these arrows. International law grants citizens rights which cannot be set aside by the national authorities. The UN Charter provides guidance on how to avoid war and aggression and resolve international dissatisfaction using peaceful means. For many years I have spoken with pride to young people on the UN Day of 24 October. I have spoken warmly about the Atlantic Declarations of President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill in 1941. I have been, and I am, a strong fan of transatlantic cooperation and membership in NATO. Proudness is not the same in 2017 as it was in 1987 and 1997. The Iraq war was launched without a UN mandate and after President Bush and Prime Minister Blair had brought the world community behind the scenes. The desire to show power of action was a rental star. But the Iraq war has shown that action must be combined with knowledge, wisdom and long-term thinking. Developments in Iraq and surrounding areas have shown us the truth in Olav Duun's words in the book "The Evil Does Not Kill With Axe." Terrorist acts save people and create fear. Terrorism, as we have experienced it in our own country, is crime. Terrorists are criminals and are judged by the laws of peace. Then there may be situations where assistance from the Defense is right and necessary, but the police are going to have the task of repressing crime. It is unwise to use war rhetoric in the important work against terror. International law also confers on each State the right to rule over its own territory within approved limits. In Norway, we are very pleased with treaties that guarantee the country our ownership of important sea areas, eternal fishing resources and large oil and gas resources. Most of us are also proud that we made the oil their property to the people through a strong national commitment to the management and construction of our own oil company Statoil and the Oil Directorate. According to international law, in the 1970s, we had freedom nationally to do this. If we had found this oil today, the EEA agreement would limit our freedom of action in this area. There are things going on internationally that intervene in what are legitimate rights of the populace have to design a policy for the benefit of their country. It shall apply, inter alia: TTIP and TiSA, which provide multi-national companies with justice and limits the right to rule to national voters, as defined by international law. This is new, and it's unwise. There may be a lot of talk about multinational companies, but they have not had as their primary objective either to promote fair distribution or popular governance. And just the popular government has proved to be superior to other forms of governance. It must be practiced within the framework of a state. She's the hallmark of power being divided between the populace, which gives laws and permits money, the executive power and the courts. In order for democracy to work, we must have a common public in order to have a common debate. The elected representatives are responsible to the voters in elections. Does this have anything to do with Norwegian foreign policy and the international image? Yes. There is often talk, both in our country and in other countries, of voters who fail their parties. There may be people who, for good reason, think that the elected leaders have failed them. The distance between promises and results is very large, and responsibility is replaced by disbursement when the results are to be summarised. This perspective includes understanding the consequences of social unrest in Europe, Brexit and the election of Trump as President of the United States. For many years, contrary to the Progress Party, most of the parties in the Biggest have had an active policy to help people where they are. The central party believes Norway as a rich country has a responsibility to contribute to development and help fellow human beings in other countries. There's one party that's been talking about "state-forced u-help" that's just got the main job of helping people where they're basically. We want Norway initially to show the way in the international community. When a child is born, there must be a minimum level of health provision for mother and child. This child needs food and proper nutrition, and this child needs education. This is fundamental to development and progress. The idea behind UN organisations WHO, FAO and UNICEF is also very good. It is important and right that Norway follows up on the areas of health, food and education, which the Centre Party prioritises. In addition, we want strong support for civil society as part of the building of democracy. The Central Party is increasing its budget support for humanitarian efforts in the vicinity of Syria and to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees by a total of 200 million. kr. Thousands of people have an acute need for food, water, medicines and health care. One can both as a resident and as a public authority feel discouraged in dealing with all suffering and injustice. I'm grown up in a small community of hardworking and careful people. Most of them had enough to get a living for themselves and their own, but they were never themselves enough. The idea was that although no one can help anyone, everyone can help someone. We can call it solidarity, next love, or to care. This rusty and warm thinking we have as popular responsibility that we carry on as a nation. As an independent country, Norway has a legitimate right to defend its own territory against attack. Therefore, it is important to have a strong defence. Wars will finally end on the ground. The central party therefore believes that Norway needs a strong army and a strong protection to defend its territory. The economic framework for defence is a political issue. The Central Party wants to give priority to the Defense Higher than the Right and the Advance Party, and we're proposing to strengthen the Army by 1 billion. NOK 300 million and the Heimevertet. kr. It's a good investment in future security. Prioritisation of funds between maritime defence, air weapons and land power is also a political issue. There is no military phase on this priority. There are political priorities to be made by the populace of the Grand Duchy. What is the situation in the Storting today is that the Right Party and the Progress Party are entering history as a brake block in a new area, simply a necessary effort on land. Int. 83 S has the Central Party and SV a proprietary proposal that also applies to the Defence: ‘The government is asking the government to forward the investment in new artillery, with a view to delivery to Norway during 2019.’ I want to address this proposal. So a few words about the budget for Svalbard. It's a broad political deal, but it's still so important that I think it excites some words from this pulpit. The Nordic regions are Norway's most important area of foreign policy interest, and it is important that we pursue a policy that makes the swallowing policy firm and that we can manage our sovereignty and the follow-up to the Svalbard Treaty in a good way. It's good that we agree on it. Finally, I would like to refer to the Centre's alternative budget, setting and posts by other speakers who will deepen and base our priorities on the different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2090	The representative Steinar Ness has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2095	I just want to start by saying that we were several people in the room who were sitting a little bit when the representative Tybring-Gjedde mentioned help for self-help as a new idea in Norwegian assistance. A small search on the phone showed that the Power Foundation believes that help for self-help has been central to Norwegian assistance since 1952. I guess it's a little bit about when you start calculating, but it might not be completely new. The world has enough resources. Poverty and distress are not the result of a lack of enough, but of a disorderly distribution of power and wealth. Therefore, development policy must be used as a tool to combat global inequality. If we are to spell ‘education’, it is to be spelled ‘tax’, said Norad’s director Jon Lomøy at a debate meeting earlier this year. Each year, developing countries lose 1600 billion. tax evasion by hiding these values in tax havens by the economic elites of the countries. These are important revenues; they are revenues that could guarantee the rights of their own population — health, well-being, social security networks. That is why we in SV are strongly critical of the government's depriving tax of the development programme. On the contrary, we want to strengthen it as an important tool for inequality and justice. The climate crisis is suffering unfairly. The world's poorest has contributed at least to global warming, but they are hit hardest. In reducing climate change emissions, growth in developing countries must be green. It is only possible if rich countries such as Norway assist poor countries in this work. SV's alternative budget is on climate aid, climate adaptation through the Green Climate Fund, forest money and investment in renewable energy. At a time of greater tension than we have experienced in a long time, the government has ignored Norway's historically important role in driving disarmament. It is cut off in support of civil society the same year that ICAN won the Peace Prize. In the SV's alternative budget, we are creating a new post in the state budget to step up the work of a nuclear-free world. On the NRK news this morning, we were several people who heard about the Teodora Vásquez, who are in prison in El Salvador. She's been sentenced to 30 years in prison after a stillbirth. El Salvador is one of the countries in the world with the most severe penalties for abortion. ‘The foundation of all freedom must be available on its own body and on its own. The opposite is a slave’s condition.” These are not my words, these are the words of one of the great Norwegian pioneers, Katti Anker Møller. Not only in El Salvador, but all over the world, is the right to self-determination under increasing pressure. After the United States, with Donald Trump at the head, introduced the so-called oral curve rule, the support for sexual reproductive health is severely cut. This is a rule that puts thousands of international health workers in a pit, where they are at risk of major cuts in the appropriations if they continue to do important work for women's lives and health. In particular, organisations working for women and gender equality are under financial pressure. There are a number of organisations that have had to stop this important work because they risk losing all support from America if they also offer abortion or information about abortion. Norway should be a counterweight to this. We need to take a clear and clear position on women's lives and health. We have to show that we are willing to put money on the table for women's rights. Therefore, SV increases female assistance, we earmark money for action against violence and for good sexual education. In summary, we propose to increase the aid budget by 450 million. kr in addition to the government's original proposal. With this, we're over 1 pst. of GNI. Our budget is a budget for increasing efforts to combat global inequality, combating climate change in poor countries, increasing humanitarian aid, funds for disarmament and not least a boost to women's rights worldwide. I see that the time is running out, so I'm going to come back to the defence budget in a later article in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2114	The main objective of Norwegian foreign policy must be to promote human rights. We should promote human rights not only because they are universal and apply to Pakistani and Nigerian as to Norwegian citizens but also because Norway's foremost national interest is a world based on international rule of law and universal human rights. In such a world, Norway’s interests are well cared for. Indeed, it is a world in which the rights of individuals are protected by strong legal norms and where the weight of major powers cannot override the rights of small and medium-sized countries. It is a world of predictability and mutual trust, where neither states nor Heads of State can put themselves ahead of international laws and regulations. In the work of a world based on the inviolability of human rights, Norway must do its utmost to strengthen and further develop international institutions and civil society. We must be a strong voice for human rights, democracy and international law and law. With human rights as our guide in foreign policy, our task is clear. When, in addition, we have the UN's sustainability goal to reach, the course is for Norway's role in the world. It is the task of Storting and the government to ensure that this is reflected in the foreign budget we are adopting today. Regardless of whether we accede to the UN ban on nuclear weapons, it is important for the Left that Norway supports under the Norwegian civil society working for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. We are therefore pleased that the budgetary unity between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, has led to an increase of 6.5 million. kr that can be used for such work. The left has been a driver to ensure that ICAN receives an earmarked aid amount of 2 million. kr, and Norwegian nuclear medicine also receives 2 million. kr. The remaining sum should be widely shared between different Norwegian civil society actors working for disarmament and non-proliferation in Norway and abroad. For example, the Council of Norway's Peace Council is: a self-required beneficiary of such aid. The centrality of civil society for Norwegian foreign policy cannot be exaggerated and is not limited to the work on disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. For the Left, it has been important to strengthen the commitment to civil society under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget chapter. It was a battle cause for us to strengthen the civil society post by 100 million. In addition to the government's draft budget. I assume that the increase will also ensure a proportionate increase in information support, and that democracy support will be increased from 8 million. NOK 10 million. kr. The fact that Norwegians Worldwide also retained its 500,000 kroner grant shows that the bourgeois parties are supporting the Nordics abroad, and that we want them to have their vote heard in the Norwegian political debate. The basis for a well-founded foreign policy is knowledge and research. Therefore, ensuring sufficient funding for budgetary research has been a long-term priority for the Left. This year we were especially happy to achieve an increase of 37 million. In addition to the government's draft budget, dedicated to research, empowerment and evaluation. These means will be important to ensure the increased use of framework agreements with different research institutions. If we are to have a knowledge-based approach to Norwegian foreign, aid and development policies, we depend on research institutions such as CMI and PRIO to provide independent and quality analysis and evaluation. That we've additionally earmarked $12 million. kr to NORGLOBAL, which makes a strong contribution on Norway’s road towards achieving the UN’s sustainability goals, is itself a reason to celebrate today. However, Norway’s reputation abroad is not only dependent on a commitment to human rights and more international cooperation. We also have a job to do in promoting Norwegian culture and Norwegian business interests abroad. A small market such as Norway will never be enough for our great successes, and in order for our artists and entrepreneurs to claim themselves even outside Norway, we need to be able to offer them a plank to the international arena. That is why we have put it as a priority to maintain support for information purposes, food and culture promotion. We're happy to strengthen the order of $24 million. In addition to the government's draft budget, we are pleased to bring more Norwegian products into the wider world. I started my post with a call to arrest about the human rights. The budgetary unity we have established with the governmental parties and the Christian People's Party is a very good step in that direction. We focus more on civil society, more on research, more on women's rights and more on the UN. It gives courage for further action within the Committee. I would like to thank the colleagues in the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party for their good cooperation and look forward to tonight's debate. Finally, I would like to add about Svalbard: the Svalbard Treaty was signed in Paris on 9 February 1920 under the second government of Gunnar Knudsen. You could say that the Left's commitment to Svalbard stems from the work of the Knudsen government in those days. I hope that the government shares the view that Svalbard should be given priority not only in the interests of the local population but also in the interests of the critical strategic value of Svalbard for Norway's presence in the high north.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2135	Extreme poverty, climate change and the huge income gap between the richest and poorest countries in the world are among the biggest challenges facing the world. Norway must contribute to greater international justice through a holistic development policy. Then it's both important and right that the next year's budget should add to a global education boost. Education is a means of achieving growth, development and poverty reduction. At the beginning of 2016 there were still 260 million children and young people without schooling. It is particularly important that targeted efforts are made to reach the groups that are most exposed to exclusion. I think of girls, children in conflict, children in refugees and children with functional challenges. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that, in the context of the revised budget for spring, the government will present a plan to step up assistance for vocational education and training provision in developing countries. But access to school is not enough when we know that a large percentage of children die before age 5. Increased efforts to reduce children and strengthen health assistance must therefore continue to be a major effort in Norwegian aid. It's help that's useful. Since 1990, there have been more than halves of infant education. This means that 17 000 fewer children die every day than in 1990. Investing in health assistance is also one of the best investments you can make. For example, each krone will invest in child vaccination, provide 16 kr saved in health expenditure and loss of wages and productivity due to illness. Furthermore, enough and nutritious food is an ingredient both for good health and for ability to learn. Nearly half of the deaths among children under the age of 5 are related to sulphur. Climate change adaptation of agriculture is therefore crucial. The Christian People's Party is pleased that through the budget agreement we got an increase in this field of 40 million. kr. Not least, it is good for the government to come back with a stepping-up plan also in this area in the revised budget, and that this will be prioritised as a priority in Norad's new knowledge bank. The Christian People's Party wants more of the assistance to go to those who need it the most – to the poorest. New forecasts show that more and more of the extremely poor in the world will live in sub-Saharan Africa. That is why the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the budget agreement represents an increase of 400 million in aid to Africa. kr. It is also good that the Foreign Minister will come back to the Grand Duchy when it comes to the list of partner countries. It is good to clarify what it really means to be a partner country, and what criteria will be used for the selection. Civil society is a fundamental driving force for democracy and human rights. It is therefore very positive that the budgetary agreement increases civil society assistance by 100 million. kr. The agreement also provides for an additional strengthening of efforts by religious minorities. It's important at a time when almost 80 pst. of our fellow human beings live in communities with strict restrictions on religious beliefs and practices. Here, too, it is important that the government, in line with the will of the majority, looks at how Norad's support schemes can be better set up to support organisations working on precisely these issues in countries where civil society is being given less and less space. There is not enough money left on your own, and the money must also be used in the best possible way. Norwegian assistance saves lives, brings people out of extreme poverty and leaves children to have schooling, health care and new opportunities. For me, it's hard to see any better investment than this. I'll look at the new Minister of Defense, who seems somewhat disappointed with this post, but I'll come back with the defense part at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2159	These are troubled and dangerous times in the world. The war in Syria is not over, the West and Russia are on their way to the freezing point, and in the United States Donald Trump sits with his finger on the nuclear button. This is not the time to submit Norway to the United States even more. This is not the time to spend billions of dollars on new bombers that will enhance the attack capability, but weaken defence capabilities. But that's what's going to happen in the Storing today. Today, the majority will decide to use 9 billion. kr next year on the purchase of F-35, the US fighter aircraft from which the majority will purchase a total of 52 pieces. A total of 61 billion will be purchased. kr. Including the cost of life, we're talking about a total of 264 billion. kr. This is the largest investment in Norway’s history in the mainland, used for a purchase that is primarily made to demonstrate Norway’s loyalty to the United States, and for Norway to be able to participate effectively as a component of the US and NATO attacks in the future. For F-35 is not designed primarily for the defence of its own borders and airspace, as the high-ranking general of the U.S. Air Force Michael Hostage has established. It is primarily designed for attack on hostile territory. In other words, we're using huge sums on a plane that ties us even closer to US foreign policy for decades to come. In addition, fighter planes are so expensive that it goes at the expense of the rest of the Defense. This is the question that the other parties do not have a good answer to: what kind of defense do we get when we put all the eggs in one basket, put all the money into buying and operating fighter aircraft? Both the Army, the Naval Defense and the Air Force are already missing money for today's operation. At the same time, Norway is aiming at a huge investment that will require additional billions of additions to its operating budgets. As a result, Norway spends several hundred billion dollars and yet continues to lack defence capabilities. The increased costs of buying and operating fighter aircraft will eat up what is left of our first line defense. It's like the Evening Post Per Anders Madsen wrote last spring: ‘The fighters can break the Army.’ And as Madsen continued, ‘Arrears half of the flight buy-in shall be covered by the ordinary defence budget. In more recent times, investment becomes a fiscal lead. This will be noticed by the other arms." Norway spends more money per citizen on defence than any other NATO country in Europe. Nevertheless, we have hardly any defense, and worse, the bill will be for 52 U.S. fighters. Therefore, the purchase of new fighter aircraft threatens both the country's defence capabilities and the sustainability of well-being in the coming years. So what's the alternative? The alternative is to realise that it is essential to dimension the defence of Norway on the basis of a goal of winning an airfight over Norway. That is why we need to deprioritize fighter aircraft and rather strengthen the Army, the Home Guard and the mobile air and coastal protection on land and at sea in order to cooperate and defend Norwegian territory. Norway should invest in mobile coastal artillery and effective cooperation between the Naval Defence and the Army, and NATO supporters should also ask themselves whether F-35 is actually adapted to the new defence policy situation. To Dagbladet Jens Stoltenberg said a week ago that the new main priority will be the defence of the Member States' own borders. How clever is it then to tie up large parts of the defence budget in attack planes? In the 2018 budget, Red proposes to cut the post for the purchase of F-35 and instead increase the appropriations for the Army, the Home Guard and the Sjöheimevernet by 1 billion. kr – because we give priority to the defence of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2190	The world has experienced great progress in recent decades. Never before have so many people benefited from the development and prosperity created by international cooperation. World trade has been eightfold since 1970, and the number of extremely poor has been halved since 1990. Today, the proportion of poor people is increasing mainly in conflict countries. Two thirds of today's extremely poor live in middle-income countries. At the same time, the foreign policy landscape is more demanding than it is for a long time. The development of North Korea's nuclear program is serious and creates a fear of military confrontation. The security policy situation remains challenging. In the Middle East, the situation is tense again, and around 136 million people worldwide are in urgent need of humanitarian aid and protection because of crises often caused by conflict or natural disaster. High-ranking people are on the run. The developments and changes we see require us to make clear priorities in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. Cooperation with the UN, NATO, the EU and other close allies and partners is essential to prevent decades of progress for democracy, human rights, free trade and international cooperation from being relaunched. Norway’s main interest and community of values are Atlantic, European and Nordic. Foreign policy starts in Europe. Government meets today's major challenges with a responsible and secure foreign and security policy. As announced in the Road Selection Communication, the government has made clear and conscious choices to target and strengthen cooperation with our most important allies — the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands, as well as the Nordic countries. The government will take increased responsibilities with the rest of Europe for stability, democracy and development in our neighbourhoods. Developments in the Balkans are demanding both politically and economically. For this reason, the government is almost doubling its efforts towards ODA-approved countries in the Balkans, including the United States and Japan. Bosnia. The Middle East has been hard hit by war and conflict for several years, and unrest in one country threatens stability in neighbouring countries. Therefore, the government will step up its efforts for stabilisation and development in this hard hit region. Efforts aimed at vulnerable countries threatened by war and conflict will be reinforced. There will be increased Norwegian efforts for refugees and internally displaced persons in the neighbourhoods. We further develop Norway’s important role in peace and reconciliation, including with increased funding. With development policy, Norway is taking responsibility in global efforts to achieve the sustainability goals of the 2030 agenda. It is clearly expressed in the 2018 budget. The total assistance is for next year of 35.3 billion. kr. The aid amounts to 1 pst. by the GNI allocation for 2018. We are strengthening and continuing the heavy development policy priorities that have been throughout this period – education, health, job creation and partnerships with the private sector, climate and renewable energy and humanitarian aid. Cross-cutting priorities include: the rights and human rights of women. Assistance to health and education works. Health and education are prerequisites for sustainable development and poverty reduction in all countries. We therefore continue Norway’s leading international role in global health and education. The bets have a wide opening up in Stortinget. We're strengthening the health effort by 400 million. DKK to SEK 4.1 billion. kr. We give priority to women's and children's health. Vaccination is the best way to prevent disease. That is why we also have a great deal to do with this. From 2014, the government has more than doubled the aid for education – from 1.7 billion. DKK to SEK 3.6 billion kr for 2018. Good and relevant education is important for business development, but it is also important from a right perspective. Therefore, the government is also taking a clear leading role internationally in sexual and reproductive health rights and women's rights. While we stand here, Norway is hosting a large international conference together with UNFPA on sexual education, as one contribution to policy development as well as increasing appropriations. It is also important to address the major humanitarian needs that exist. The overall contribution to humanitarian aid has increased by more than 50 pst. from 2014 to approx. 5.2 B.C.E. kr in 2018. It is a contribution that is important in conjunction with long-term assistance to deal with acute crises. Norwegian foreign policy should seek international penetration for what we believe in, and we should safeguard Norwegian interests in a more changeable and demanding world.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2213	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2218	In spring, a proposal from the Christian People's Party on poverty orientation and predictability of civil society in aid policy was presented. It was after some years when Stortinget decided more and more bag posts, and it was up to the council to decide how to use the money. It was a clear wish that the Stortinget should have more influence on how to prioritise the development budget. What has the Council of State done to follow up the decision of the Storting in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2225	In the 2018 budget, the budgetary structure is slightly different from what has been common, precisely to increase the transparency of what is a large budget, both economically and not least in textual terms. It is a follow-up to the request decision by Stortinget. The size has not had any comments on it in the budget, and I therefore believe that the size is satisfied with the division and the change that has been made to increase the clarity of how the funds are used. Having said that, I believe that you can always get better at clarifying and also compiling some of the bets. There are, of course, large amounts of money that cannot always be read out of the individual budget lines, but there is a need to look at the whole to see the total amount of support given to an area, such as the United Kingdom. education and women's health and rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2232	It has been a dogma in our national secret political debate that Norway can only organise trade, relations and cooperation with the EU in two ways, either through the EEA Agreement or through EU membership. Brexit and the fact that the United Kingdom and the EU have now been a few on a new framework agreement show that this has our faults and that there is a larger room for action. Does the Council of State think it is a problem that our national space of action is now getting bigger than what has been said before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2241	I believe that this is a question that Minister for EU and EEA Affairs Marit Berger Røsland would also like to answer, but the truth is that almost 80 pst. of our exports and our trade with EU countries go through the EEA Agreement. That is why there is also concern about what is going to happen when the United Kingdom leaves the EU, and therefore the government has put in place a great deal of work to map agreements that we have and that we need to obtain, among other things. with the United Kingdom, which is our main single market for goods and services in Europe. It is precisely that trade, it is precisely international cooperation and not least a common set of rules, which has been so crucial for the predictability of access to Norwegian businesses and which contributes to our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2246	The issue was not the content of the EEA Agreement, but what alternatives Norway can have as a nation when it comes to organising our relationship, our cooperation and our trade with the EU. The central part of Norway has requested a more forward-looking position from the government to see if there are any new possibilities for Norway. Iceland's Prime Minister has, among other things, expressed the wish to invite the United Kingdom into EFTA. Why is the government so negative to map these possibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2253	Once again, this is a question that I think it is better to address to EU and EEA Minister Marit Berger Røsland, but let me nevertheless say that this is the agreement that a large majority of the Stortinge have put themselves behind again and again because it serves Norwegian interests. The alternatives for Norway are worse, and therefore the EEA Agreement has the broad scope of its integration, which it has had in all the years it has worked. When it comes to EFTA and its links with the United Kingdom, this is primarily something that needs to be resolved in the dialogue and negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom, and so far there has been no desire to join any Norwegian models. Of course, we must respect and take note of that. I also think you will get into situations that can be challenging and demanding for Norway if you are to invite far more countries into the model that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2260	47,000 women die every year worldwide as a result of unsafe abortions. The issue of sexual health is a question of human dignity, and it is a question of life and death. As both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and several others were involved in their contributions, the rule of mouthwashing is a real threat to women's access to abortion and information about abortion worldwide. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Should not Norway take an even more active and leading role in curbing the attack on women's health now taking place worldwide? In the SV's alternative budget, we have now proposed an international women's fund that can be used for support. Is there anything the Minister for Foreign Affairs will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2268	I think it has to be worked on this problem along two axes. One is the financial and support for various funds, countries and programmes. The second is politics, which is at least equally important in this context. Norway is among the biggest donors and takes leadership in this issue because we are fundamentally concerned with women’s rights. We're now going to have a core support for UNFPA, which is very important in this context, at half a billion dollars, and precisely core support is crucial in many of the UN organisations, because that's what makes sure you can do the long-term work. The Prime Minister twice in the summer signaled that we are going to increase the appropriations for sexual and reproductive health rights by 700 million. I'll spend the next four years, and I'll increase by 180 million. kr already in this budget. Much of that goes to UNFPA. It also goes to civil society organisations that work precisely on the issues raised by the representative, including: Safe and secure abortion, but also generally in the area of rights, and we have also been very committed to ensuring equal economic rights for women and funding, among other things. funds through the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2273	The impact measurement is a global commitment of all countries, and objective No. one is to eradicate extreme poverty. When we see the government's list of proposed partner countries – the government should clarify the criteria and choices during 2018 – there is reason to ask whether foreign policy and security policy interests are more important than the fight against poverty. Then I think of countries like Indonesia, South Africa and Syria. So my question to the Council of State is: Is it so that when we partner countries in our aid and development policy, it is the fight against poverty that is job no. One, in line with just the regenerative measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2278	Sustainability targets set a wide range of objectives, where eradicating poverty is the overall objective, but it is achieved through many different strands. This is also why the choice of partner countries varies slightly, although more than half of the partner countries are in Africa. What we've been very concerned about is how we can best eradicate extreme poverty, especially through measures such as education, job creation and business development, but we've also been concerned about how we can achieve other important milestones on the way to it. on climate and environmental issues, where Indonesia is a very important partner for Norway. As far as Syria is concerned, the discussion is about meeting the urgent humanitarian needs of Syria — where the government has committed itself to 10 billion. kr over four years, and there we are now halfway – but it is also about neighbouring countries and about ensuring that neighbouring countries are able to carry the large refugee flow from Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2285	The new fighter planes will be extremely expensive. We're talking about the biggest investment in the mainland in Norway's history. Over 260 B.C.E. kr shall leave our tax haven and be used on these American bombers for the next 10 years. This will be a budgetary lead – I think everyone sees – and it could also dramatically affect the other parts of our defence. The evening post is not known as a Red medium, but commentator Per Anders Madsen writes: «The fighters can crush the Army». It's so expensive that this will go out on the other weapons. What does the Minister think about the ratio of costs to fighter aircraft versus being able to maintain the country's defence capabilities and not least the Army and the Home Office? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2292	Time's up. Foreign Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2300	It's called the Secretary of State, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2305	I assume that the representative of Moxnes has come to realize that there have been changes in the government and changes in portfolios and responsibilities, and I would very much like Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen to answer this question. However, let me make two comments about it: The Storting has unanimously opted for the acquisition of up to 52 fighter aircraft and has unanimously opted for the election of F-35, which is thus a fifth generation fighter plane, which is the most remote for Norwegian purposes. Being able to oversee and control airspace in our neighbourhoods is essential for Norwegian defence capabilities. There have been all the parties behind it, and there is no change in it – until Red entered the Stortinget. Second, it's not going to break either the Army or any other defense. The total operating budget of the defence budget of F-16 today is approx. 4 pst. It increases to approx. 5 pst. When we get the new fighter planes. There are no other defence branches breaking, but the important thing here is precisely the interaction between all the different defence sectors. That's what gives defence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2310	At the risk that it is the right address, I will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs a question about the Middle East. Last week the U.S. president announced that he wanted to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Thus he transformed the entire Middle East conflict from being a conflict of international law and illegal occupation to becoming a conflict between three religious groups, and it has violent consequences, we will believe. In the following day in the VG, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that it was not appropriate for Norway to move the embassy and follow the Americans. She goes on to say that it's not up to the United States to decide where to have their embassy, that Norway's embassy should stay in Tel Aviv. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Is this Norway's official and formal view and is this clearly communicated in writing to the US authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2317	As I expressed last week, the government is very concerned about what is happening now. We are afraid that it can lead the parties further away from the negotiating table, and we are also afraid that it will increase the level of conflict, potentially also the violence in the region. That's why we've been very clear about it. We have many ways of conveying it that are not necessarily just written – I think both Americans and others have brought with them the Norwegian message and the international message, which has been completely unanimous. Today it is approx. 86 countries that have embassies in Israel. Everyone has their embassy in Tel Aviv, and as far as I know, there is – perhaps with one exception – no country that has decided to move its embassy. It is for exactly the same reasons as the reasons for the Norwegian position, namely that this is one of the most important and most difficult final status issues, which there has been an agreement on the whole need to be resolved with negotiations. So I probably didn't say that it wasn't up to the United States to decide where to have their embassy – of course they're free to do it – but it's not up to the United States, or any other country, to decide where to find a capital in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2322	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2327	Climate change is the major challenge facing the world. New, up-to-date numbers are no clear reading. They again show that the climate models we've had seem to have been too conservative. They haven't taken into account the speed and the direction that evolution has. When we have previously talked about an average Arctic heating of 4–6 degrees, AMAP now upgrades this to 7–8 degrees in its latest report and states that there will be large regional differences, measured on average in winter temperature up to 20 degrees in some regions. Thus, in today’s world, it is quite demanding for Norway as an Arctic nation, which is hit hard and first in the north of climate change, to operate with coal mining in the Arctic, more specifically on Svalbard. That is why the Workers' Party has supported the government's proposal to wind down coal operations on Svalbard, but not only with the reason that it is unprofitable – that is good enough justification in itself – but also because we bear a considerable political cost when we travel around the world trying to take leadership and show way where we are going. On that occasion, I think it is important to point out that when we shut down the coal operation on Svalbard, we should also clean up. The government has taken the initiative. It's a huge challenge. I want to address this – not because I am going to criticise the fact that cost development is already a challenge, it is also the government aware and kept the Stortinget informed about – I just want to remind you that then you have to have useful and important instruments to control the costs when you start this project. I wanted to take the word and remember this because we have a expectation that at Svalbard we live up to the very highest standards in terms of how this cleanup is going to take place, and what it's going to look like when we leave the area, both because we have a self-interest in it, and because we're going to set the standard for other nations that are doing coal operations on Svalbard. The svalbard community was faced with major challenges some years ago when the coal price went down and it was so unprofitable to drive coal that it was in favour of an operating rest on the island group. That is why the then Minister of Justice, Anundsen, took the initiative to speed up the Svalbard message, commendably. One of the key issues raised by the Stortinget in the discussion on the Svalbard message was how to secure the future energy supply. Even though we are now shutting down coal operations on Svalbard, it will still be that the electricity in Longyearbyen is mainly produced with coal power. It must be abolished, and within a reasonable time. I want to challenge the government if we, together with other nations that have off-grid networks, which they call it in Alaska and Canada, can find new innovative and sustainable ways of producing energy. We have the same challenges, but perhaps on a larger scale in Longyearbyen than in smaller communities in Canada and the United States, but the challenges are essentially the same. Will the government take an initiative, for example: in Arctic Councils or some of the working parties there, and together with our partners in the Arctic, find a solution to this situation? We share many of the challenges, but there's a distinction here between what the government does and what we in the Labour Party think. The government largely describes the challenges, but it takes a very long time to get solutions implemented. There is a need to develop the research park at Svalbard. The working party was set up by 10 million. kr for a pre-project to be undertaken by State Building to look at how this can be developed. The government didn't find the $10 million in its budget. We have proposed to speed up the launch of port development in Svalbard because Svalbard is strategically right for when the maritime activity in the Arctic, over the Arctic and in the North Sea route increases. The government has chosen not to do so. In relation to the national transport plan of the red-green government, they have chosen to postpone the project. Instead of providing money for satellite coverage above 73rd latitude, you choose to explore the project. Instead of developing the assumptions for the tourism industry at Svalbard, the Svalbard airport is being reduced from international airport to national airport. Instead of granting money for racial protection to secure housing, the matter is being pushed forward, and the development of a new energy solution has not yet been speeded up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2343	In the political landscape, there is a lot of talk about how important it is for aid to meet the 1 pst target. On the other hand, I think it is more important to talk about the extent to which the assistance we provide actually contributes to poverty reduction, and whether the assistance makes countries in the long term independent of assistance. It is a cross-thinking that many of Norway’s countries provided assistance 40 years ago, still receiving Norwegian assistance. Among the 20 countries receiving the most Norwegian aid in 1970, 18 continued to receive Norwegian aid in 2015. For the past 50 years, the West has been transferring over 2.3 trillion dollars in development aid to poor countries, according to economist William Easterly. But the poor are still poor. Aid itself cannot eliminate poverty. There are many examples that help can make things worse. There are many reports pointing to the shadows of aid. Assistance may lead to dependence, corruption and impairment of local control capacity. South Korea is one of those countries that no longer receive assistance from Norway. GDP per capita was at the level of many sub-Saharan Africa countries in 1960. In 1996, the country became a member of the OECD. The South Korean regime prioritised, among other things: economic growth, industrialisation and education. Norway is a small country, and it is limited what we can do in countries and societies that are very different from our own. It is important to remember that countries themselves have to take responsibility for the development of their own societies. Development comes from within and cannot be imposed or created from outside. It is the countries themselves that must sit in the driver's seat. Many developing countries today have a policy objective of attracting increased investment and becoming independent of assistance. This government has turned assistance to the education and development of local business. It is important for countries to be able to work out of poverty and become self-reliant. The aid for education has been doubled during this period of government — from SEK 1.7 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 3,4 billion. kr in 2017. This effort will continue in the 2018 budget. Business development and job creation are another main theme of government. This year’s budget increases support for industrial development by about 338 million. kr. In addition, efforts are being made to involve the private sector in Norway. Nine out of ten jobs are created in the private sector of developing countries. Private sector exposure is essential to create and achieve economic progress in poor countries. An important initiative that combines the need for education and training with the development of private business is vocational training based on the demand of private enterprises, where civil society actors and private sector actors can apply for funds to provide young people with training services relevant to employment. Contributing to the creation of new jobs in Africa is one of the most important things we can do in terms of assistance. There are over one billion people in Africa today. By 2050 it will be close to two billion. According to the World Bank, 40 million new jobs will need to be created every year to integrate the large youth coals into the labour market. If children and young people do not have the opportunity for education, jobs and a future, it is not only an African problem, but also a problem that can affect the whole of Europe. This is about helping self-help through education and business development in brief. I will come back to Svalbard and the Defense in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2364	The government's clear objective is to strengthen defence and establish a balance between defence tasks, structure and economy. We have prioritised the defence in every budget since we took over the government offices. We are also doing so in the proposed 2018 budget, which is being discussed today. The government's 2018 defence budget proposal is about 55 billion. kr. Last summer, the government presented the long-term plan for the defence sector. It represents a large-scale effort and a long-term commitment to increased appropriations, modernisation and reform in the defence sector. The plan provides for a significant strengthening of the economy throughout the period 2017-2020. The long-term plan adds to a bet over four years divided into three, and there are three to some overlapping phases. In the first phase, we have started to build the core wall of the Defence through systematic investment in maintenance, spare parts and emergency facilities. In phase two, we are helping to reduce clear times, increase the manning of selected capacities and increase the level of activity. In phase three, the focus continues from the first two, while increasing investment in new strategic capacities. The long-term plan requires the defence budget to reach nearly 8 billion. kr. from 2016 to 2020. Some have asked questions about whether we have also financed the long-term agreement in Stortinget, with the continuation of, among other things. The Coast Guard Command, HV-11 and Defense Music. And yes, the multiannual effects of the settlement are included in the up-to-date figures and in the annual reinforcements. At the same time, the long-term plan is based on significant self-action through modernisation and reform in the defence sector. The targets for resource release in the long-term plan, and for 2018, are realistic. I would like to remind you that these are identified and concrete measures. It's not, as some claim, a kind of ramcut. The government is now well in the process of recovering the previously unfunded lag in maintenance, spare parts and emergency stocks. And we have increased operating budgets to avoid new lags building up. As a result, the Departments of Defence become more accessible and get better stamina. Phase two of the long-term plan provides for reduced clear-time, increased manning of selected operational capacities and increased activity. Priority will be given to the northern regions. The land-military and footprint in Finnmark are being increased by the establishment of a separate hunting company at the Garrison in South Varanger. In addition, we will establish a combat air protection unit in the Artillery Valley, and the government will provide for the acquisition of combat air protection for the Army from 2018. In 2018, the level of activity in Maritime Defence is increasing. We will receive the logistics vessel KNM ‘Maud’ and the establishment of the fifth frigate crew is ongoing. A few weeks ago, the first F-35 fighter planes landed in Norway. Additional six F-35 fighter aircraft arrive in Norway in 2018. It is essential to ensure continued renewal and modernisation of defence, so that defence remains a relevant security policy instrument in the future. For 2018, the government's proposal involves an investment share of about 27 p.m. by the defence budget. It is well above the NATO target of 20 pst. The government is also following up on the work on object security. In the next few years, a further 450 million are planned in the defence budget. kr for securing the displayable objects for which the sector is responsible. For 2018, the amount is approximately 87 million. kr. NATO is the carrier of Norwegian security and defence policy. In 2018, Norway is given the opportunity to host the alliance’s large-scale high-profile exercise Trident Juncture. This NATO exercise is conducted every three years and was for the first time conducted in 2015 south-west of Europe. Trident Juncture is a unique opportunity to develop, train and test NATO and Norway’s defence capabilities, while at the same time testing and implementing plans for the reception of allied reinforcements to Norway. In addition, many civil protection missions will be tested as well as cross-sectoral cooperation. We thus get a realistic review of the mechanisms of total defence. The government has been, and is, clear that security and defence should be given priority. This is necessary and important, especially because we thought there was insufficient consistency between the defence tasks, the defence structure and the defence economy. The size was adopted nine days ago. We are now well under way to assess the operational as well as the economic impact of the decisions and will return to the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget. Overall, the long-term and land-use plans provide a good document for the further development of Norway’s defence. There are many in this room who are concerned with security and preparedness, defence and security, and who want a strong and relevant defence. Both the government, our settlement partners and the others in the opposition are the proponents for strengthening the defense. Although we disagree on some priorities, here I must be allowed to express joy that we have a broad consensus on the broad lines, in favour of the development of defence and in favour of the development of security for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2399	The councils mentioned that there was enough money within the framework of the long-term plan to finance the coastal hunters, Setnesmoen and the corps. But the big question here today is not. The big question here today is whether there is enough money to finance the land-use plan, because more funds are needed for helicopters, and more funds are needed for tanks. Is there enough money within the framework as it is now, to finance the decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the Land-Government Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2404	No, no, no. It's not that many days since we debated the land-use proposition in this room. Then I was quite clear that we had to take it back, and in the revised budget, we're going to come up with a solution on how we're going to finance the extra efforts that have been put into that proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2409	I did not ask how much extra money was needed for that. I asked how much money there is within the framework. I ask the Council of State to answer the question: is there enough money within the framework of the long-term plan for this four-year period to finance the land-use plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2414	The land-use proposition adopted in this room last week gave us some challenges in terms of the framework for the four-year period. We have then replied that we should come back to the revised budget, explaining how we should finance, whether we should, if necessary, redispatch or provide additional appropriations – how we should solve the tasks that we have received from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2419	F-35 is crucial for Norwegian defence, and my question to the Council of State is: What has the Council of State done to ensure that we can maintain F-35 in war, crisis and peace with Norwegian hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2424	The decisions taken in the Stortinget in connection with the purchase and operation of F-35 in the future are a total package, where, within the cooperation partners, an organisation – partly in Norway, partly in other countries – is rigged to ensure that we can completely maintain aircraft here. It should be possible to do the periodic maintenance either by Norwegian hands or by foreign hands, but hands within the partnership outlined. This is a framework that has been adopted a long time ago, which has been a premise for the purchase and operation of these aircraft in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2429	I'm glad the Council of State has got what the Storting has decided, but my question was what the Council of State has done to make sure you can do this. In short, I hear that the answer is that this has not been done by the Council of State, because you lean on what has already been adopted. Let me reformate the question and ask it in another way: is it such that the Council of State can guarantee that in a crisis or in a war situation we are able to maintain and operate the F-35 with Norwegian hands and heads, in the sense that we have the capacity and competence to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2434	In the package as F-35, it is assumed that normal maintenance will be carried out in Norway. So here's a partnership that makes it possible to carry out large maintenance jobs in workshops in other countries as well. But the total package within the co-operative countries where you explore, develop, build and use F-35 makes sure that we are able to take that maintenance. To the small distinction that we are absolutely sure that we can do this with just Norwegian hands: No, we can't guarantee that, because it's a package that makes us use workshops, capacities and knowledge within the partnership to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2442	The government budget for the following year shall hold all known and calculated expenditure and revenue during the financial year. This is not the case for the defense. Some of the people who are supposed to manage the funds efficiently and at the best in the community start the year by doing more than the funds are allowed. Explaining what means they get will come out half of the year. This, of course, makes long-term planning and good resource use difficult. Is the Council of State expressing good leadership when the government is unable to establish the framework for defence in 2018 in today's debate, and is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that it is the Right and the Progress Party standing in the way of the release of the necessary funds to the Army?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2449	Yes, the Council of State is very sure that the model of long-term planning that we have in the Defence is very good. I am also sure that the apparatus we have will be able to take on the challenge that it is with us in the land-use proposition to carry out some additional tasks for the defence. Then it's like we have an ambitious budget for 2018. No one is going to be unemployed in the Ministry of Defence or in the Defence until the revised budget comes in June. I can assure the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2456	The Secretary of Defense and his predecessors have repeatedly stressed that American soldiers are not to be stationed permanently on the Guards, but are there for practice and training under Nordic conditions. However, in an interview with the NRK earlier this year, the General of American Forces in Europe expressed the wish that the Guards should become the main base of American forces in Europe. And in the class struggle on 7 October, the stationing of a document from the American Marine Corps is referred to as “persistent – in English “persistent” – rotating presence” on the Guards. At the same time, the so-called rotational system of Værnes from the summer of 2017 was once again extended by one year. My question to the Council of State is: Is American and Norwegian defence management in agreement with the length of their stay at Værnes, and is there any concrete agreement on the length?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2463	This is actually a good question. The Norwegian basic policy has been clarified since we became a member of NATO – it should not be foreign bases on Norwegian soil. So we've said that to compensate for that, we have to be good at ally training. So we're going to invite our partners here, they're going to train with our forces here, so they're going to be good at solving the mission that we hope will not come – that we have to get reinforcements from allies here. My understanding is – and this I have discussed quite many times lately, including with American politicians, simply because it is an important discussion in Norway – that American politicians have the same understanding as the Norwegians of the basic policy. The agreement with the Värnes exercise is valid for 2018, which has been transparent in Norway. At the same time, in the long-term plan, we say that we should have more allier training in teams with Norwegian forces in Norway. So we're going to evaluate this. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2470	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2475	I can reassure the Minister of Defense, because now also comes a good question: I heard the post, which I rejoiced about, which just pointed out the broad political unity that we now got about the land power. I think that the land power is and will be an essential component of Norway's collective defence capabilities. But not only have we got a whole consensus: when we look at what we've got, for example. around the Army and the Home Guard, have we not, when we look at the Home Guard for example, got a better solution than what was the starting point? And does the Council of State have the power to follow up what has become a common solution, which one can also see as real, overall, a better solution for Norway's defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2482	I guess I have 17 or 18 years in Homeland. Yeah, I'm glad we're strengthening Homeland Protection. That we should dress up and train more soldiers in Homeland, I believe, is right. At the same time – I must be allowed to shoot in – I am probably open that the priorities that have been done in the past were not wrong. We delivered a fantastic proposition to Stortinget, which improved by negotiating for some adjustments to it. Every properly dressed, well-trained and motivated home-protection soldier is a strength for Norway and a joy for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2489	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2494	It is in Norway’s interest to cooperate closely with the EU on common European and global challenges and to participate actively in the ongoing policy processes in Europe. This cooperation helps to ensure Norwegian prosperity and Norwegian security. The cornerstone of the government's European policy is the EEA Agreement and the other agreements between Norway and the European Union, and I welcome the broad support for this European policy in this Chamber. In the last four years, the government has taken a number of steps to pursue a more active European policy. Our strategy for cooperation with the EU has given a political direction to our work. We will build on this effort in a new growth period. A new EU strategy is being developed and will be followed up through the annual work programme. Norway shall be relevant, active and clear in meeting with the EU. Europe continues to face major challenges, not least in terms of unemployment and economic differences. In countries like Spain and Greece, four out of ten young people are out of work. The EEA funds are Norway's main contribution to social and economic cohesion in the EEA area. Support shall also contribute to strengthening cooperation between Norway and the beneficiary countries. Norway has been an active contributor here since we signed the EEA Agreement in 1994. The contributions go to areas that are central to the development of the beneficiary countries, the projects must have clear objectives, and we make strict demands for results. We focus on ensuring that the funds that go to civil society are managed independently by local authorities. Norway is financing more than 6 000 projects in 16 countries under the scheme now in the process of closure. At the base of 3 billion. actions to promote growth and jobs in Europe through a massive focus on research and industrial development in cooperation between beneficiary countries and Norwegian researchers and enterprises. The plan for the period 2014-2021 is SEK 2.8 billion. EUR and the proposal for 2017 is EUR 370 million. kr. There are many good projects supported through EEA funds. One example is the work done in Bulgaria, where EEA funds have financed a preschool and contributed to schooling for 17 000 children and young people who had dropped out of school. Several of the projects in Bulgaria are aimed at the inclusion of rooms. We know that an important prerequisite for lifting more out of poverty is to secure them education. Bulgaria will become the fourth largest beneficiary of EEA funds during the next programming period. Another important project is the assistance of the UDI to Greek asylum authorities. With the migration pressure experienced by Greece in recent years, this has been important, and although the challenges are still great, the system has improved with Norwegian EEA funds. The EEA funds have also ensured reception centres for lone minors and other vulnerable groups. I have noticed that the member of the Central Party wants to cut the amount allocated to the EEA funds. Such a cut would damage our relationship with the EU, and it would also mean that Norway would break our international legally binding agreements, because the financial arrangements are regulated in binding agreements between Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein and the EU in the joint arrangement and between Norway and the EU in the Norwegian system. Good and effective international cooperation is based on respect for common rules of the game, and Norway is a country under the obligations we assume internationally. I have noticed that the Committee stresses the importance of good control procedures being sought by the Norwegian authorities in the follow-up and management of EEA funding schemes. In the follow-up and management of the EEA funds by the Ministry, good control procedures are sought at several levels, both in the recipient countries themselves, through the administrative body of the funds in Brussels, through the National Audit Office and through the EFTA Board of Auditors. The Committee also underlines the importance of the Norwegian authorities seeking to maximise transparency at all stages of the procedure and application procedure in the context of the EEA Financial Mechanism. I also want maximum transparency on EEA funds and have asked our secretariat in Brussels to exercise transparency in documents as close as possible to Norwegian public policy. Negotiations with the recipient countries for the next period are now in the final phase. There are already agreements signed with eight countries. We're signing with Latvia today, and we've finished negotiating with three more. The remaining negotiations are ongoing, with an ambition to complete them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2522	Svalbard is a sovereign Norwegian territory, and the Svalbard Treaty regulates certain matters, but only applies to 12 nautical miles. From there, the law of the sea applies. According to the media, the EU Fisheries Ministerial meeting opened yesterday to grant new licences for snow crab fishing around Svalbard. State Council Sandberg is quoted as saying that this is to say that we have now concluded discussions with the EU on this issue. I am pleased to note the importance of agreements with the EU, so if we are to conclude the talks, but at the same time are engaged in reaching agreements, my question is: How will the Council of State work to reach an agreement with the EU where we are told that there is Norwegian sovereignty and that Norway is regulating snow crab fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2530	We have been negotiators from Norway for a long time in terms of snow crabs and the EU. We have wanted a solution that we have offered to exchange allowances from the Norwegian side with the European Union. However, when we now register and experience again that the EU side grants licences for snow crab fishing in the Barents Sea and on Norwegian pedestal, it is a regrettable development, and I support the statements made by the Fisheries Minister Sandberg that such a decision has in practice chosen the EU side to close the snow crab talks with Norway on this point. We had this contact with the EU page all year round. Norwegian position is known. Here we have important principal positions from the Norwegian side to defend. Of course, we are still at the disposal of talks, insofar as the EU side will choose to turn around, but in terms of the principle view of the interpretation of the Svalbard Treaty, Norway has nothing to give on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2537	I would like to ask the Minister of Europe a question which probably also concerns the area of interest of both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, but it is therefore a matter of European policy, and that is the development of security policy cooperation, now known as Pesco, in the European Union. There has been broad support here in the UK for Norway, although Norway has its main anchor in the transatlantic, to cooperate with Europe where we can, in the field of defence policy – it is defence industry, and it is defence policy as such. Is there any risk that the current formalisation could lead to the involuntary consequence that Norway's access becomes somewhat weaker? And if the answer to that is yes, what will the government do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2542	The government, of course, follows closely the development of a more ambitious defence and security policy on the EU side. We have a tradition of linking ourselves to initiatives that we believe are important in Norwegian terms. We've been involved in operations before. We have many parallel views with the European Union on many foreign policy issues. As regards the development of Pesco, it is currently not clear whether participation from third countries will be open. As I have explained earlier, we have attached ourselves to the pilot scheme for defence research. We've also wanted to get into the capability part in the defence industry. As far as Pesco is concerned, we have suggested that we should be able to participate at least on a project basis. However, it is clear that full Norwegian participation will need to be assessed on the basis of the EU side's premise for such cooperation and how third country cooperation will be organised in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2551	I thought I could be a little clear now during Christmas and give the council good time to preface a good answer to my question, because I expect it to be expected! The background to the question is that it has been a dogma in Norwegian policy that there are only two ways Norway can organise trade, co-operation and cooperation with the EU through either the EEA Agreement or a Norwegian EU membership. The question is how long the government will have to wait on this dogma and think Norway is in a forced situation. Or, in the light of what has happened to Brexit and the issues between the United Kingdom and the EU, can one open up that, yes, there are other alternative ways of looking at future cooperation between Norway and the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2558	I do not believe that this is a self-imposed forced situation we have faced in relation to the EEA Agreement. It has been based on Norway and Norwegian governments since 1994, and I believe it has also served Norwegian interests well. So when the Central Party does not want to replace that agreement with anything else, which we do not yet know what would be in that case, I believe that it is really the majority in this Chamber who manages the Norwegian interests most safely in this respect. In the case of Brexit, the future model of cooperation that will be established between the United Kingdom and the EU is currently unclear. The EU side has been very clear that there are few alternative solutions that lie between an EEA agreement and having a purely free trade agreement. To recommend Norway to replace the EEA Agreement with a free trade agreement is not something I will at least put behind me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2565	The Council of State was in itsintroduction into Norway’s international obligations. I would like to ask about some consequences of the EU's handling of the external border of the EU and Schengen area. There are consequences – i.e. in the Mediterranean – that several thousand people have been returned to Libya, where major human rights violations are being committed, especially in relation to the detention camp. Governments may have seen CNN's documentation of auctions where people are sold as slaves. My question is how will the Council of States actually ensure, but also pursue, Schengen cooperation, that EU funds, including contributions from the EU Migration Fund, the EUTF, are not used to finance directly or indirectly the detention camp of the Libyan authorities – and how are governments and the EU working specifically to prevent refugees from entering these camps? It was a long question, but it's an important one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2580	The premise that the EU should have returned a number of immigrants to Libya, I ask if it is correct. We know that there is a terrible difficult situation for migrants in Libya, I think we can all agree on that. We are shocked by the descriptions that are coming, the detention camps that we see. This is completely unacceptable. But then to draw a conclusion that this has a responsibility for the EU, Europe or Norway — where my agreement with the questioner stops. Clearly, these are terrible conditions, something Europe and Norway need to engage in. The resources made available by the EU Emergency Trust Fund include: to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and the IOM. Norway participates in the EU Emergency Trust Fund and, of course, emphasises where funds are to be used in a way that respects international standards and obligations. It is necessary to ensure that the ODA and DAC criteria for what is provided are also respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2585	On 23 June 2016, we received the brexit vote, and after that, we have had an uncertainty in Europe about the relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU. But last Friday the first breakthrough came. We see that the borders between Ireland and Northern Ireland become the EU border. It's described as a soft limit, but it's a lack of certainty. My question is how the Council of State assesses the situation now, because there is an uncertainty because the Member States of the European Union will ultimately decide on this, and we know that it has created a political uncertainty about Brexit by the fact that the National Assembly in the United Kingdom will decide on the outcome of the negotiations itself. So I ask, how does Norway now contribute to achieving the best possible solutions for Europe related to the Brexit challenge, and what is the Council of State's assessment of the situation on 14 December 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2590	With regard to the assessment of the current situation, I believe it is fundamentally positive that progress has now been made. It was also absolutely necessary after nearly one and a half years of negotiation about the withdrawal process and very short time again to clarify the future relationship. Then we all see that this is a very demanding debate, and there are still many difficult issues that have not been resolved between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which the representative Hareide pointed to himself. The border question of Northern Ireland – Ireland, as I see it, is not really solved by what has been written and included in the preliminary report. But it's an important step forward, and it gives the parties the opportunity to negotiate. Norway is not part of these negotiations. Of course, we call for clarifications, for transitional solutions to be made, and we want to ensure that Norway is included in what concerns us and in what concerns the EU's internal market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2595	I would like to follow up on the question from the representative Steinar Ness that the solution now, as well as that, is that the United Kingdom and the EU find out, for the first time will provide an alternative to the EEA and membership. That's not right. The EU has a trade agreement with over 50 countries, and the most recent one is an agreement with Canada, a so-called CETA agreement, which is the most comprehensive one, and an agreement with Japan. The question to the Council of State is: is she aware that some of these 50 agreements are as comprehensive, as deep and as good for the business life of these countries as the EEA Agreement is?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2601	I am not aware that there is an agreement as good as the EEA Agreement to ensure participation in the internal market. I think we should agree that with regard to the issue of Norwegian business and market access, it is about significantly more than customs duties and the possibility of exporting goods. The EEA Agreement provides for a level playing field throughout the internal market. That's equivalent to equivalent standards. It offers equal opportunities not only for exports of goods but also for the production of services. This is important for Norwegian business. In a survey survey, nine out of ten Norwegian companies in the West reported that the EEA Agreement was an important framework condition for their business life. So I think the answer is clear, and that there is a significant difference between having a free trade agreement and having an EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2608	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2613	One of the greatest global challenges of our time is the rapid emergence of growing differences in almost all societies. This is done by the rich getting richer, the middle class getting weaker, and a subclass of significantly lower living standards emerges than was the case a short time ago. This happens at the same time as poverty goes down. The difference between countries is falling, which is a positive move, but in most countries the differences between rich and poor are increasing. There is an economic difference, a social difference and an increasing difference in quality of work. The type of inequality is serious for many reasons. It threatens the social contract. It threatens the feeling that you're in the same boat, that there's a kind of national 'we', someone who's together about something. But it also turns out to be undermining growth itself, and it's a finding that the World Bank, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and the World Economic Forum – where I've had the pleasure of working for years – now agree that it's one of the greatest economic challenges of our time. The answer to this is more inclusive growth, where both people are involved before income – that is, they are involved in creating the values – and then have a good redistribution. I would like to link it to the contribution of the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who pointed out the importance of helping to help self-help. I agree, in fact, I have always agreed with that. I think everyone else has agreed, but it's good to remember that. I would say that one of the best ways in which the representative Tybring-Gjedde can be involved in promoting that goal is to vote for the various tax proposals of the opposition, including the Workers' Party. It is because there are few instruments that are so useful in reaping the wealth that is also found in poor countries — because there is not a poor country where there are no rich people who do not pay taxes — and it is also beneficial for other reasons. It increases the income base and it contributes to redistribution. But it is also connected with effective democracies. One of the points about having representative assemblies like this is that you discuss how to spend your common money, and that's a little bit of the purpose of tax too. That's why it's important, we think, to step up efforts within what the aid budget calls Tax for development, i.e. programmes to transfer competences in how to build a good tax administration, how to provide a broad tax base and a fair tax policy, for the reasons I mentioned instead. However, even this does not help if it is easy to move taxation to other countries. That is why the initiatives in our budget for the fight against tax havens and tax evasion are also an important part of the international policy of our time. I believe this concerns both European policy, foreign policy and aid policy. We believe that the economic dimension of our international policy should be strengthened, and we have put concrete proposals into the budget for that. This is an area where Norway actually has something to contribute. We have succeeded better than most in becoming rich together — going from a poor country to a middle-income country to a country with very high incomes — without having had the same development of differences, and that is why. Some of the reasons lie in strong institutions that ensure that sufficient funds are collected to run the public sector, to redistribute and to pursue a fair tax policy. I would recommend that all those who wish to contribute to self-help support support the proposals made by, among others. The working party of this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2626	The defence part of the state budget for 2018 is a clear and systematic follow-up to the long-term plan. That's a whole That's 3.8 billion. kr more than in the 2017 budget, and the 2017 budget was an increase of 3 billion. kr in relation to the previous year. History has taught us that stepping down the defence budget in safe times and then spending more on the defence budget in unsafe times is bad defence policy. The defence budget is inconvenient as a turntable to swing in line with the economic cycle of security policy. The current situation in Defence is not a product of the security policy situation, but the security policy situation has made the situation clear and the seriousness of our weak defence capability. Our defense, along with the Allies, must have a deterrent effect, so that a foreign power does not take the chance of threatening or attacking our nation. Norway is NATO in the north. The day-to-day operations of the defence are crucial for Norwegian sovereignty and NATO’s understanding of the situation in the northern regions. That is why we are investing in new surveillance aircraft, new submarines and a strengthened e-service. The 2018 budget for defence will be 8 billion in 2020. kr more than that underlying the 2016 budgetary path. In this way, we are on the right course with the long-term plan. The base wall is repaired, the material is restored, the emergency stock is increased and the spare parts are completed. Let me do an example. In 2017, a maintenance exercise was carried out which resulted in 5 500 material objects being put in standby state. That shows that we're on the right track. The 2018 budget will increase maritime defence activity, increase air defence activity, and the high level of activity in the Army and the Home Office will continue. We focus on increased presence in the northern regions, the crew in HV-17 is increased, a hunting company is established on GSV, and the frigates are sailing more. We have come out of the unfortunate situation where some of the frigates are at berth and are used as part ships for other frigates. Now four frigates and five corvettes sail. That is the result of the fact that the Maritime Defence Agency in the State Budget for 2015 and 2016 was allocated significantly more funds for increased maintenance and that the Maritime Defence Department has released administrative posts, posts of staff, to more operational posts on board ships and at sea. As the Minister said, material investment in the defence budget constitutes 27 pst, which is significantly higher than the NATO target. This reflects this government's willingness to renew ships and to renew aircraft. I also think I have to mention that during the last year, this government has agreed to increase the investment in the Army by 5 billion. kr, for new combat air protection, measures against electronic warfare and – now these days – the purchase of new artillery. A defense that was in the process of confusion, a defense that was about to rust down, is now about to rust up. Then I have to use my last seconds, to say it like this, to comment Red. Red says we're buying new fighter planes to win an air war. It's directly wrong. Any modern defense has a balance between air defence, maritime defence and army. No army is able to carry out its mission today if you do not have air support and control over airspace. Finally to the Center Party: Yes, the Center Party is occupied by the Home Guard and the Army – who is not – but the Center Party is occupied by these two defenses without reference to the rest of the Defense. The situation is that the Army, the Home Office and our civil society can be taken out of long-range precision weapons. That's why we need an air force, we need weapons that can meet this, and we need a intelligence and a situational understanding that can reveal this at an early stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2645	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2650	The overall objectives of the swallowing policy are clear. There is broad political agreement on the main objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy. The consensus is visible in the treatment of the last swallowbard notification and the annual treatment of the swallowbard budget. We must have a firm enforcement of sovereignty, respect for the Svalbard Treaty and control of compliance with the Treaty. We're still going to have a predictable exercise of authority and a good social development on Svalbard. Having a long-term and continuous svalbard policy has proved successful for the development of Svalbard. The coal company Great Norske has traditionally been a carrier of the Longyearbyen community. In recent years, the company has faced challenges. The Lunkeck Mountain Mine in Svea is currently in a state of rest. The government is now proposing to terminate the Svea business and to start a clean-up operation. In recent years, Longyearbyen has been exposed to two snowmobiles with serious consequences, and there has been a continuous follow-up to the emergency situation. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate is continuing the snow forecast on Svalbard, which was established in January 2016. The Government proposed to increase by 20 million in the revised national budget in 2017. kr to slip protection in Longyearbyen, which the Storting joined. NVE monitoring is now continuing further with regard to anti-slip protection. In the context of the revised national budget 2017, the Government proposed to grant EUR 28 million. kr for basic studies and the design of new dwellings in Longyearbyen. Based on this, state buildings have started planning 60 new dwellings. Construction start is planned for 2018. I would like to stress that we see housing construction and tailoring in the context just to ensure the best possible use of society's resources. In addition, the Ministry of Knowledge in 2018 will grant double grants for the construction of student housing on Svalbard, and more than 60 new student housing will be provided. The government attaches great importance to a continued active swallowing policy and to a viable and attractive swallowing society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2663	Foreign policy is very often referred to as the aspects of a country's policy which are, or are important to, its relations with other countries. With policies in this context, it is very often, in the first instance, thought of the government’s words and actions that are directed to the rest of the world or that are about its own country’s relations with the rest of the world, especially with the authorities of other countries. It will be very often about declarations, objectives and what a person wants to achieve in specific cases in other countries. In many cases, there will also be appropriations and money to achieve objectives or other practical measures to be taken. It is these frameworks and this direction, which the Stortinget is dealing with today, and which provides the basis for what will be the government's policy design, in particular of foreign policy. Foreign policy has become our home policy. It's local, it's regional, it's national, and it's facing the different countries with which we have tasks or challenges. The international threat picture is changing. It notes Norway, and it notes other countries. The distinction between threats from state and non-state actors is more unclear, and cross-border threats such as international terrorism, violent extremism and organised crime are taking advantage of the very absence of the territorial control of the authorities. I am very pleased that the government and the Right in the government triple the effort to work on just what is going on on global security challenges. Criminal networks contribute to what is intended: to create fear. Terrorism and its financing, trafficking in human beings and, above all, corruption thus threaten both state and non-state actors, our democratic fundamental values – choice and security – through actions and operations, including in digital space. Terrorism, violent extremism, organised crime and the emergence of illegal markets are obstacles to exactly what we value in our part of the world, and which many lack: peace and economic development. Work needs to be seen in this context in the light of the implementation of the UN's sustainability objectives on peaceful societies. In recent years, the government has just stressed that this should also be research-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2674	In fact, the SV and the government parties share some foreign policy objectives. We share the objectives of peace and disarmament, and we also share the objectives of dealing with humanitarian crises. But when the government insists on selling arms to land in war, it violates both our objectives and its own objectives. Just before the elections, the Minister of Foreign Affairs approved the resumption of exports of ammunition, bombs and grenades — according to the Central Bureau of Statistics — to the United Arab Emirates, while Norway continues to export different defence materials to Saudi Arabia. It's quite interesting that we here support Muslim states, something Tybrung-Gjedde warned very strongly about in an article earlier today. Both of these countries participate in the extremely brutal war in Yemen. It has led to thousands of deaths and injuries and to one of the worst humanitarian crises of the time. As we get reports of how the war gets worse, and as reports of humanitarian suffering show the government no willingness to stop this gun sale. Rather, on the contrary, a session is expected to occur. As new reports on the deterioration of the war continue, the government continues to make economic considerations more important than preventing war and preventing humanitarian suffering. What provokes me the most is that in the position we are dealing with today, the government of the Norwegian humanitarian effort in Yemen boasts, but they are of course entirely silent about the fact that Norwegian weapons most likely contribute to the humanitarian crisis. This is a disastrously poor political assessment that affects thousands of people. The Government also refuses to investigate where the Norwegian weapons are at port. They are passively leaning on the fact that they have not yet received any information on how the weapons are used. Honestly, when the Emirates buy ammunition, bombs and grenades from Norway and at the same time are at war, it's because they need them. I guess they won't tell the Norwegian government that they use Norwegian-produced ammunition when, for example, they do. attacks civilians in Yemen. Therefore, it is very important to clarify how the Foreign Minister can defend and allow the sale of weapons that are likely to end up in a terrible war with extreme human suffering. I must also be allowed to ask if the Minister for Foreign Affairs actually believes that this is lawful, and that this gun sale is in line with Norwegian arms legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2689	I made a promise in my first post that I would come back to the SV defence budget and explain it, and in this and other budget debates it is important to keep what you promise, so here it comes. The defence budget is bigger than ever. Nevertheless, we see that the increases are eaten up by the purchase of expensive fighter aircraft. SV will freeze the purchase of fighting aircraft in order to ensure a balance between the defence sectors. Norway needs a proper aircraft, but we don't need 52 aircraft. The purchase of F-35 supersedes the efforts of the other defence sectors, and we believe that a sound defence policy involves purchasing fewer aircraft for the benefit of land and maritime defence. We must ensure a defence built up to defend Norway, not set up to contribute to NATO's foreign warfare. SV proposes to re-prioritize from fighter aircraft to important investments in the Army and Home Guard and to increase the sailing time in the Maritime Defense and strengthen the Coast Guard. We will pick up Norwegian soldiers from foreign operations in Syria, Jordan, Afghanistan and the Baltic States and send American soldiers home from the Guards. SV will invest in a defence designed to defend Norway. Defense planning will be more expensive, not cheaper, in the next few years. By making important priorities and reducing the purchase of flights, we will be able to build a structure that we have the opportunity to finance without at the same time building down welfare schemes or making unsocial cuts in order to achieve it. Defence policy should be based on relaxation and not on upgrading. This has contributed to Norway's basic policy for many years. That is why we are opposed to the posting of American soldiers on Norwegian soil, which I also brought up with the Minister of Defence in my reply to him. SV wants strong national defence with a balance between the defence sectors, and we want to give priority to defence of Norway over contributions to NATO and foreign operations. This was the best of SV's alternative defense. I see that the Minister of Defence is not completely sold, but perhaps there are opportunities ahead anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2706	In a constantly changing world, it is important to have a fairly stable foreign policy. Foreign policy is a great deal about relations and strengthening links between countries. Don't be too quick to separate yourself from your father and your grandfather's friend, it's a saying that's called. We can't demand loyalty, but we can be loyal. I am very pleased with our historical ties with the United States and the United Kingdom — these countries with the special relationship. That is why I would like to express my respect for the American President, Mr. Donald Trump. I am also very pleased that this government has made sure that we have received surveillance aircraft, P-8 Poseidon, which was an incredibly important purchase. I am also pleased that we have a research agreement and a development agreement with the nation state of Israel, at a time when internal defence has become as important as the outside. It is in Norwegian interest to strengthen the link between our two nations. This is also about loyalty. Israel is under pressure, among others. from Iran and from forces that wish to weaken Israel economically, using arguments from a region where peace agreements are not always respected. I would point to Israel as a lighthouse in the fight against terrorism, with democracy, freedom of religion and equality. My hope is that these three will remain as important nations in foreign policy for the future: the United States, the United Kingdom and – to a greater extent in the future – Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2717	In this position, too, there is a unanimous committee which underlines Norway's interest in the international legal order, where relations between States are regulated by an ever-closer set of obligations, standards and conventions. This helps to make our assistance through international bodies and institutions more effective. It gives us greater security through NATO. It ensures a safer framework for Norwegian exports through the EEA, free trade agreements and the WTO. The EEA is important for our relationship with the EU and Norwegian exports to our neighbouring countries, but the WTO is an important foundation for regulated trade globally. The 11th WTO ministerial meeting was concluded in Buenos Aires yesterday without any new agreements. But the worrying thing is that it could have gone worse, so that this is considered a result that is to go further. The reason for fear of a worse result is, among other things, That the United States has put itself on a protectionist line, where they have, among other things, blocks the appointment of members of the WTO Dispute Resolution Panel. One highlight is that from the WTO meeting there was a declaration on women and trade signed by 114 countries. This is about finding regulatory barriers, funding and other issues that make it more difficult for female traders to connect to trade and international value chains with their products. This must be actively followed up by Norway in its trade policy. I heard the representative Harek Elvenes repeat something that we have often heard in recent years from the representatives of the Right – and also from some of the Progress Party – about Defence, namely that we are now in the process of arming up a defence that was in the process of wriggling and rusting down. From 2001 to 2012, we used 14 pst. more new equipment in the Defence than on new roads and rail combined. During our eight years, the defence budget increased by 50 pst. If it's rusting down the defense, we have a common problem, because then we can't afford to rust it up. Then I think we just have to admit that we can stay with a border guard, a coastguard, HV, the Voluntary Shooter Service and the music.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2729	It is gratifying to note that there is a broad political consensus that Norway should have a modern and allied defence. The adopted long-term plan and the land-use agreement also show that there is a broad consensus on the development of defence further. Norwegian security and defence policy aims at ensuring Norway’s sovereignty and political freedom of action. The foundation of Norway’s security is NATO. Therefore, Norway must have a modern, flexible and forward-looking defence, which is part of a strong and credible alliance. The Progress Party is concerned that the economy of the long-term plan and the consequences of the agricultural decisions must be followed up, so that we do not get into a situation where the adopted structure is not financed. This year's budget shows that the government takes this seriously, through an exponential financing of the envisaged escalation over the four-year period. The defence budget is historically high and increases fighting power and sustainability. The budget provides for substantial increases in appropriations for key capacities in the defence sector. Reduced clear times, increased staffing of operational capacities and higher activity levels are added, representing a high level of defence policy ambition. The government continues to work on building the ground wall on which the Defense can build. This has already begun to produce operational effects in the defence sectors, the Home Guard, the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Cyber Defense. The army will be strengthened and the necessary commitment to maintenance will continue in 2018. The Progress Party is particularly pleased that the establishment of a hunting company at the Garrison in South Varanger continues, and that the establishment of a fighting air protection unit in the Artilleribatalion will be launched while the increased activity in the Armour Battalion and the 2nd Battalion will continue in 2018. I also record the acquisition of new fighter aircraft, F-35, according to the plans. The party of progress is pleased with the development of defence. A relevant and forward-looking defence is essential to our sovereignty and independence. A strong and modern NATO ensures that we also know in the uncertain future that we have the necessary support to continue to develop our country in a democratic tradition. Norway as the outermost region of NATO is demanding and challenging. It is therefore positive that the government's proposals focus on monitoring, presence and sovereignty in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2746	It was the regrouping proposition that made me take the word again. There we present some changes and new priorities. I note that there is a proposal from the Central Party and the Socialist Left for the purchase of new artillery, plumbing, where it is proposed that the Stortinget ask the government to speed up the investment in new artillery, with a view to delivering to Norway during 2019. I think we should actually do that. We have come so far into the process of the basis of competition, testing and choice of supplier that we seem to be able to provide that acquisition, so that we can imagine an acquisition period from 2019 to 2021. So I hope that I can be a good move for the SV and the Central Party, too, since we have had such a pleasant debate on defence policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2751	I must disappoint you and say that the cheer we hear alternately is not from people who sit out listening to this debate, but from peace activists who are out demonstrating for Palestine. That is also what I want to contribute to this debate. We often say that the conflict in the Middle East is locked. But now it would have been just as well. Because the conflict isn't locked up, it doesn't stand still, it changes every single day. The settlements continue, the violence increases, and the desperation increases. And when we hardly thought it could get worse, the president of the United States steps in and sets fire to the whole region. He said that Jerusalem should be recognized as the capital of Israel and promised to move the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and a total increase are so clear that it is not Norwegian policy, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is deeply concerned about the election of the United States. That's very good. But from the government, I call for more new initiatives and a braver voice internationally for what Norway can do to show the Palestinians solidarity and to create a new dynamic in the process. In the past, Norway has been a country that has led and has had the courage and the will to take new initiatives – from normalising relations with the PLO in the 1980s to the Oslo process in the 1990s and the previous red-green government, when Norway, as the first Western country, recognised the government of assembly between Fatah and Hamas, and the previous government also helped upgrade the Palestinian offices here in Oslo to an embassy. Now we no longer see the same initiative from the Norwegian side. In some areas we depend on the opposite. This applies, inter alia, to: on the labelling of goods originating in the occupied Palestinian country. Norway should be able to do this, so that Norwegian consumers could have the opportunity to say that they do not want to join in and support the occupation. It would also be a clear political signal that the occupation policy is not accepted by Israel. It would be following the EU track, which this government tends to be happy about. There is something many other European countries are doing, so this is not a question of Norway going ahead, it is a question of not following. The Labour Party and SV are promoting this proposal today – for voting now immediately. This has previously meant both the Center Party and the Left, so there would have been a large majority behind it. I find it disappointing that today we do not have it adopted. Let me end by saying that it is also not difficult to find problems on the Palestinian side, but we must never lose focus on what is the real problem: the occupation of the West Bank and the blockade of Gaza. When negotiations do not lead, extreme groups win. At least we have to do what we can to give hope to progressive forces on both sides of the conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2766	The centre party is occupied by a broad and strong defense. The Central Party shall take, as the first batch, decisions on the NATO 2 percentage points. This means that Norway should increase its defence rights to 2 pst. of gross domestic product by 2024. Norway has committed itself to NATO through the accession of the Government of the NATO Summit in Wales in 2014. After the Central Party has taken its decision, several lots have followed. All the major Norwegian parties went to elections on party programmes this year where they agreed to NATO's 2 percentage points. Equally, both government and growth in the fall adopted a plan for the Army and the Homeland Protection that we know does not meet the NATO target. The centre party wants to defend Norway in a number of situations. Whether it's hybrid warfare, widespread and coordinated terror, pressure on Norwegian borders or invasion, we need well-trained soldiers all over the country. The center party will ensure security and control where people live. As a result of the over-treatment of the land-use proposition, the target for GHGs was reduced from 45000 — as it was until last autumn — to only 40,000 soldiers. We are particularly concerned about the weakening of defence and preparedness along the coast. The protection of the marine environment will be abolished from the New Year's Eve. As a result of the government's long-term defence plan, the corvettes of the Maritime Defense were also abolished. Calling a weakening of Homeland Protection, the decommissioning of Maritime Protection and the abolition of coastal corvettes are fundamental flaws, as the government repeatedly does. Strengthen Homeland! has shown that Norway is the only European country that weakens its protection of its home. We in the Center Party, on the other hand, will strengthen the Home Guard. In the long term, we will increase Homeland Protection to 50,000 soldiers, and we will continue the Sjöheimeverterung. That is why we put forward a proposal on this particular issue in the course of managing the country's assets in the past in the autumn. Unfortunately, we didn't have any other party, and the other party didn't have as high ambitions as what we have on behalf of Homeland. Last year, the Senterpartiet decided to increase the Home Guard budget by 300 million. kr to complete the financing of Homeland Security and secure all soldiers upgraded material and modern weapons. [[The President clubs.]] This year we propose the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2783	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2788	About nine out of ten jobs in developing countries are created in the private sector, and close cooperation between businesses outside and at home is the key to achieving our development policy objectives, and not least underpin and try to achieve what is in the sustainability goals. It is an independent point that we should manage to help countries out of poverty, and that countries and people should be able to cope without aid. There are three issues in particular that the world faces as major challenges. It is the climate and the environment, it is war and conflict, and there is a shortage of jobs. And just what's about workplaces is one of the things I wanted to focus on. If we look at just one of the continents, Africa today has 1 billion people, and in a few years they'll be 2 billion. This means that we have examples of countries that have long since received aid, which today are far too far out of that area, and which manage themselves, precisely because they have managed to create jobs – not in the public sector, but in the private sector, as we know very well, and as it is possible on the left would call the capitalist part of the world image, but which is absolutely crucial for countries and peoples to be able to lift themselves out of poverty. We're lucky in Norway. We're rich, and we have excitement among people about using our tax money to help and to help. Then it is particularly important that we be able to do what the government does, among other things. using one of the most important individual instruments we have, the Norfund investment fund, which the government strengthens significantly – I think it's almost past 50 pst. over the next grossing-up period. As early as next year, a significant capital injection into that fund will be provided, so that we can help lay the foundation for creating more jobs. Obviously, we need to use help smartly. We have to use it well, we have to use it to make people really feel that work is within reach, and that you do yourself. But that also means that we need to strengthen the work on human rights, on the development of democracy and the rule of law. So creating jobs is itself an important pillar, but it alone does not solve all the challenges of creating and assisting democracies. We need to help countries improve their governance and look at tax finance schemes and resource management in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2799	It's a significant concern we have that the Middle East peace process is now not just tracking, but not getting back on track in the near future. That is also one of the reasons why I sent our special mission Tor Wennesland to the region on Monday. I have a close dialogue with the European Union on this issue, and I spoke with President Abbas on Friday to stress that we want to continue to contribute. However, it is difficult for Norway to cope alone if the parties do not want to talk, and if there is an extremely difficult negotiating climate in the region. We're doing what we can to try to get the process back on track, and we're also contributing through the AHLC, the donor country group that the representative knows well. When it comes to the question of Yemen, there's a deep concern about the situation there. There's also one of the reasons why the government has moved a lot of extra funds there, especially when it comes to remedying a very acute situation. Norwegian export control legislation, as the representative Eide knows, is among the most stringent in the world. We constantly make assessments – that is also true in this case – of whether we can tighten the rules, but also of how we can best apply the rules to the applications we receive for export controls. Having said that, however, I believe that we must be tidy in the debate. The representative Eide says that Norwegian weapons are most likely to contribute to Yemen, but there is nothing in the UN reports that has come, pointing towards links to Norwegian equipment or Norwegian ammunition used in Yemen. We have also not opened up the sale of weapons or ammunition to Yemen, nor to Saudi Arabia. In 2010, when SV put in government, it was opened for the sale of weapons and ammunition to the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. It's just important to emphasize what's real and what's not. But again, there is a strong concern about the situation, and the government is making ongoing assessments in this field. So a little visit to the question of the labelling of goods. There is, as the representative of August well knows, a problem that has been on the table for a long time. It was long in the previous government without any decision being made. It is a complicated matter, but we follow it carefully and make our assessments. We have clearly stated that the settlements in the occupied area are incompatible with international law, and that is the basis of our policy. So finally, tax for development is a very good instrument that, through the budget, we are now strengthening by the creation of the Knowledge Bank. The Labour Party and the other parties may be in favour of this in their vote. From 2013 to 2014 until today, the Tax for the Development Programme has contributed to increasing tax revenue, including: in Tanzania, with 60 pst. That's a very good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2810	The otherwise balanced representative Hansen from Østfold was probably a little hypersensitive during my post. I did not say that the situation in which the defence came was due to the Workers' Party. It is the result of various governments that have not provided sufficient funding for the defence, so that there has been consistency between objectives, structure and funding. Yes, we have a common task, and the Workers' Party must have recognition that they are behind the long-term plan and the land-use agreement that the Stortinget has just dealt with. But there are some facts in this case that stand there. In December 2012, former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg gave a speech in Rena clay, saying that we have a defense that is out of health, and that the transition is almost complete. Then there's a choice, and there's a new trade union council, where the head of defense says we have a defense that's under way, and there's a left bill of 170 billion. kr. It was this government, with the current head of defense, that uncovered that situation. There was no information that Stortinget had received in the past. Then I have to mention that in the period 2009-2012 it was only 800 million. kr in the increase in the long-term plan, and in the period 2013-2016 there was no increase. This government has led the majority of the Biggest to agree to an increase in the 180-bn long-term plan framework. kr. It's a change of pace. This means that we are now building up our defence capabilities – a defence that was under ‘steered liquidation’, to use Admiral Haakon Bruun-Hanssen’s words.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2819	We have recently debated the land force part of the long-term defence plan. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the strengthening we see in the north, and we are also pleased with the shared solution between Bardufoss and Rygge when it comes to helicopter and strengthening the Homeland Protection in connection with the agreement in Stortinget. And as I pointed out in the line change with the council, we're also happy with the broad agreement we're looking at in such an important area. The Christian People's Party wants a balanced defence with modern and well-functioning capabilities within both the Army, the Maritime Defense, the Air Force and the Homeland Protection. We were not part of the reconciliation around the long-term plan last fall, but the Christian People's Party believes there is a need to bet relatively more on both army and home protection than it was put up to. That priority is also reflected in our alternative budget for next year, which strengthens the land power by 0.5 billion. In addition to the arrangements made by the government. I would also like to mention today the importance of the government's work for the veterans. The Christian People's Party believes that the Veteran Federation's reference to the need for a reassessment of the compensation arrangements must be followed up, in particular the compensation scheme for psychological stress injuries. I would also like to comment in this debate on what is changing the 2017 aid budget, which is where we are going to have a change of 1.3 billion. kr due to smaller costs of refugees in Norway than expected. There is room for important bets, such as contributions to sub-Saharan Africa, the GAVI global vaccine alliance, and not least humanitarian aid in connection with the rowingya crisis and the risk of famine in Yemen, South Sudan and Somalia. It is good that the decline in refugee spending allows for such completely necessary investments. On the other hand, it must be pointed out that the Storting’s scope of action for the reallocation of large amounts is very limited at the end of the year. It is unfortunate, therefore, that for the second consecutive year, the government has overburdened so much when it comes to refugee expenditure, without having been adequately corrected in the revised budget. I have great respect for the fact that it may be difficult to calculate the refugee expenses, and that the government wants to be on the safe side. At the same time, it limits the Storing's ability to prioritize significant amounts, and that's unfortunate. My hope, therefore, is that, in the context of the revised budget in 2018, up-to-date forecasts will be presented for newly arrived refugees and expenditures which prove somewhat closer to reality than the government has done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2832	I note that Red will boycott Israel, which is the only liberal democracy in the Middle East. They won't boycott any other countries, even though in the world today, and especially in the Middle East, there are many countries full of war, violence and oppression. They want, for example: nor to boycott Morocco, which controls Western Sahara. There is no criticism at the Red of Corruption, of abuse of power and of repression in the Palestinian territories, not even by the Islamic group Hamas. It is in the interests of Norwegian security policy to cooperate with Israel in the fight against terrorism, and the government says in its foreign budget, on page 187, that the government is against the boycott of Israel. Boikott makes a distance. Instead, the government believes in dialogue and cooperation to create trust, as a prerequisite for resolving the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2839	I must be allowed to give a small reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on arms sales to the warring parties in the Yemen conflict. Figures from the Central Statistical Office show that in 2017, Norway sold approximately 130 million. For these countries. To the Emirates and Kuwait we sold so-called A-materials, i.e. ammunition, bombs and grenades, as the SSB describes it. It is absolutely right that we have strict legislation in Norway. The main intention of the legislation is that Norway should not contribute arms to warring countries. That's the main interest. My question is, why are we going to look for some sort of loophole in that code to take advantage of the small opportunity to sell weapons to warring countries, to countries where we see the most terrible war crimes and the most terrible humanitarian sufferings? Why should we look for a loophole within the Norwegian legislation? Yes, it is possible that it is legally correct that there is an opening in the legislation to sell to these countries, but why should we take advantage of the small hole, when we know that the warring parties in Yemen wage a very, very dramatic war? There have been UN reports which very clearly show that these countries are violating international law at all, most severely. We asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs this summer whether he – he was at the time – could guarantee that the Norwegian weapons were not used in Yemen. We did not get that guarantee. He could not guarantee that the Norwegian weapons were not in Yemen. What he could tell me was that no information had been given that there were Norwegian weapons in Yemen. But there's something else. So he couldn't guarantee the weapons weren't in Yemen. Then my question is, why can't we take a pre-var-position in this? Why can't we, on some kind of ethical, moral, and human rights basis, take a precautionary position to prevent Norwegian weapons from ending up in one of the worst wars in the world? To most people's knowledge, SV has submitted a proposal for a representative on this, where we want to go for a full stop in arms sales to these countries, so we expect to get this debate back up to winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2855	I'm not finished with Svalbard for today. I listened carefully when the Minister of Justice was in the pulpit. Despite his well-worded script, he had not been able to formulate satisfactory answers to the questions I raised. The Minister of Justice is familiar with the letter from the Longyearbyen local government, which addresses the uncertainties of the population in Longyearbyen as a result of the races that have gone. There was a race in 2015, it took two human lives – tragically enough. There was a new race in 2017 – coincidences did not, fortunately, have a fatal outcome. But the uncertainty you live with is to touch and feel. It is also expressed in the address of the local government given to the Minister of Justice as head of the Polar Committee. There are several important issues here. One is that one of the basic concerns you have is that the models for calculating how race goes are not good enough. That was the case with the rage that went on this year. NVE's models didn't catch this up well enough. It was no surprise that a race came, but the way it came – the power and the speed – was surprising. At the same time, local government calls for more economic predictability and more financial resources to meet this situation. It hasn't changed since the government released its government budget. Then I have to assume that the Minister of Justice takes responsibility and believes that the procedure that the government is now setting up is reassuring – and also the speed, or lack of speed, of implementing security measures in Longyearbyen in the light of the two races that have gone on in the last few years. So I'd like to address two of the questions I raised earlier in the debate, and they're related to the study on the new energy solution for the Longyearbyen. When do we get it? It was asked for last autumn. It has been said in the revised national budget that work has started, but no response has yet been given when we can expect it to exist. The second question I ask the Minister of Justice to answer is: Will the Minister of Justice consider how to cooperate with our Arctic neighbours to find renewable, innovative ways to provide a society that is not linked to the main energy supply network?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2872	The representative of the Harek Rivers thought I was hypersensitive on behalf of the Workers' Party. No, it's not about that. But I am responding to a tabloid form of debate on the defence. What the representative summed up with was that we had a defensive capability that was getting confused – to rust down. And that's when I said, in the light of the change we've had in Defense this whole century – it started in 2001, when we built the defense from an innovation defense, which would at least not have been a good defense today, to what we call an intervention defense – where we've invested 16 pst. more in new defence equipment. We have renewed the material in the Defense from Gamasi, skis and backpacks to the new fighter planes coming. If it could be called confusion, I believe we are discussing this beyond any normal framework. It doesn't impress me if the head of defense uses terms like managed liquidation. I would rather be a little concerned about his proposal and his ability to assess. I have been in this committee for the last eight years and have heard the Chief of Defense's analysis from year to year in the context of the budget, and the overall picture is that things have improved. So there's been a little up and down in the different weapons from year to year from the appropriations, but the overall picture is a continuous reinforcement of the defense. And that we have a good defence, we have shown in foreign operations, where we have made excellent efforts in several areas. Then it's absolutely right that you can discuss whether the endurance is good enough, and whether there's enough practice. There is something we can discuss within the normal framework, but not tabooidize it, as Harek Elvenes has done in this debate, and as I have heard other representatives of the government parties do in other debates. My recommendation to the Minister of Defence – when he makes new speech points to his party traps here – is: Put away the tabloid language, because it is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2879	I have no desire to extend the debate, but I feel that I would like to give an answer to what the representative Petter Eide said, namely that we are looking for loopholes in the legislation. We're following a strict code. No one's looking for a loophole. We follow the legislation that has underpinned Norwegian exports of weapons, ammunition and military material for very many decades, managed by changing governments. I also remember that the possibility of exporting A-materials, i.e. weapons and ammunition, to the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, came in the time of SV itself in government. Then I've also made it very clear that we have a deep concern about the situation in Yemen. It also makes us constantly now considering both this and other aspects of our policy. As the representative Eide is also well aware, there are situational assessments that are made as part of the assessment of whether export authorisation should be granted. I also believe it is important once again to stress that in these UN reports that have come, which give rise to significant concerns about serious and widespread violations of both human rights and international humanitarian law, there is no link to the use of Norwegian weapons or material. I want to underline that, because we also have no other information to suggest it. These reports relate in particular to air attacks. Having said that, I still believe that there is every reason to continue to follow this situation very closely, which the government is also doing. There is an ever-increasing situation in the negative direction, and this has not improved because the blockade is constantly being maintained, and Saleh is now being killed. It helps to make the situation on the ground more unwieldy and uneasy, which we will also include in our assessments of the future situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2888	Three brief comments at the end of the debate. Sometimes politics and politics may be difficult to understand, but not always, fortunately. When the Center Party strengthens the Army and the Home Guard by 1.3 billion. kr, there is a strengthening of the Defence. The comment of the representative Rivers at this point does not make any sense. Strengthening the Army and Homeland Protection is strengthening the Defence – it is not harder. Then I thought it was nice that the Minister of Defense would work hard to get another artillery in place – I want him to be happy with it. We're going to follow and thank you for coming when the artillery is in place. The new feature of this debate is that the Progress Party has discovered that development assistance is self-help. I get to say it's a little bit, even if it doesn't necessarily move the world in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2899	Towards the end of the debate, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I feel the need to make a comment on the discussion about the United Arab Emirates, because I was after a thorough examination with and made that decision in 2010. But there is a difference between 2010 and 2017, which is that the war that is now taking place had not started in 2010. So part of the assessment was that the Emirates were not at war. All I'm saying about it is that it should be an important part of the assessment that is to be made now. I'll draw it no further than that. I also felt a little need to join the representative Svein Roald Hansen said about Elvenes' performance. I think the defence debate would stand on the fact that we recognize that there are long, wide lines and essentially agreement on both the level of funding and the arrangement of defence, we have good debates on it. If you look at it statistically, there is no basis at all to say that there was a marked breach in 2013. In fact, there was a good deal of money that had already been granted from the Stoltenberg government that was never used, among other things. in large quantities of haermal material. When you had realized that you had not used that money, they were in a way granted another time. This story could go any further, but I think the main picture is that Norway has a level of defense that is widely agreed on. The really important question is whether you dare to make the clear choices. It's about the relationship between what you're funding, and what you're going to get. So there's a good legacy for the Stoltenberg government that we gave all the money we said we granted, and we took all the grips we said we should take. It was at least then the defense chiefs quite pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2908	The representative Sivertsen raised some questions about the Svalbard sniper, the job after the Svalbard breeds, which made a big impression on us, and which had major consequences for a closely linked community. That follow-up is in progress to the highest degree. The representative asks if I feel safe on that follow-up, and of course I can confirm that on behalf of the government. There's a work going on with both the local government and the NVE. A report will be issued in February on further follow-up – tailor-made safety zones – that meets the challenges in a good way. We follow up and commit ourselves on the part of the big community to caring for Longyearbyen and its inhabitants in a good way. So, of course, we're going to do it in an economically predictable way. With regard to the energy supply of the future at Svalbard, it is – in line with what was signalled in relation to the treatment of the revised national budget earlier this year – that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will launch an investigation to ensure a good approach to the challenges that the Svalbard community and Longyearbyen will face in the future. We need good energy solutions that deliver an efficient energy supply to Longyearbyen. At the same time, we will have sustainable solutions that stand in a long-term perspective. I find it a little difficult to understand the requests and questions that are raised from the Workers' Party. These are areas where the government has the highest attention, and which we will follow up on in the further work. I have understood so far that this is an understanding and an agreement The Storting is behind. It is important that we stand united behind the Svalbard policy that is being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2917	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2922	There is broad agreement on Svalbard policy, and Norway should have a strong presence and presence on the island group. But the Workers' Party is concerned about the inhabitants, and the Minister of Justice's response to racial concerns strongly contradicts what local government expresses in writing to both magnification and government. But I thank you for the answer. The Minister of Justice is confident that sufficient action has been taken. That's good, and I hope the Minister of Justice gets it right. On the issue of energy supply, the Minister of Justice was in doubt as to why the Labour Party asked questions about this, and whether there was any basis for asking questions. I asked two questions: the first was, When will the investigation be available? It didn't answer the Minister of Justice. The second thing I asked was: Will the Minister of Justice take the initiative or work with other Arctic neighbours to find common solutions to common issues? Nor was it possible for the Minister of Justice to answer, so that the future can show whether it is really as high on the agenda as he claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2929	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2941	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2950	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9-11, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 12, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13–15, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 16, from Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure and prioritise the rapid, coherent and effective development of Kjevikvegen and Rv. 9 Seatsdal in line with the leaders given in Innst. [[2016-2017]] 460 S National Transport Plan.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2976	Arne Nävra – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2981	Of course, we are in favour of road repair – it supports SV – but we cannot go in for continuous development without having an overview of what this will cost. We believe that this is immature, so I would recommend that our representatives vote against proposal No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2986	The Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e2998	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case concerning the creation of a state company ‘New Baner’, which will be responsible for the investigation, planning and development of lightning trains between the major cities of Norway and Stockholm and Copenhagen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e3013	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 15 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a ring-fenced flight relief fee between the largest cities to finance the investigation, planning and construction of lynch trains in Norway.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government requests the launch of a concept selection inquiry by the Tromsbanen.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e3037	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the necessary means to enable the works for electrification of the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen to begin in 2018.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e3055	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of E6 throughout the Ringebu-Otta section of Uppland, in line with what was the basis for Storting’s treatment of the project.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the suspension scheme so that capital costs can also be covered by the scheme, both for national and county road links. This change is currently applied to projects approved by the Ministry after 1 January 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e3077	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that important road sections from Norwegian industrial companies enter the main road network as soon as possible for the use of modular road trains.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e3094	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose the introduction of a scheme to compensate bus companies for social discounts on express bus routes [[reduction for children, students, pensioners, dependants, etc.]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop and extend Enova’s support schemes to make a far greater contribution to the use of hydrogen as an energy carrier in the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to design a comprehensive aviation strategy for Norway in its own biggest message.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Storting on the state of state of state and county road bridges in Norway, the government’s strategy to ensure safe bridges in the next few years, and what is done to ensure the security of control procedures in the state road services in this area.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that, when pension schemes in the railway sector are closed, the limit is set at 52 years and that the government returns to the Stortinge if such a change requires changes to existing powers.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the ongoing and planned future competitive outsourcing of train services in Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop planned increases in rail freight charges on rail.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the legislation and powers so that municipalities can forge investment for the development of fishing ports and associated fairways which are a priority in the national transport plan.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e5323	It shall be counted against A II to VIII and X to X III. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they support the suspension subsidiaryly. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e5339	It is votted over A IX. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e5365	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e6274	During the debate, Mr Huitfeldt put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a labelling system to clarify to Norwegian consumers which Israeli products were produced on occupied countries in violation of international law.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e7966	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e9417	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e9914	It's only going to add up to IX. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e9928	It's going to add up to VI. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e9942	It shall be added to III and VII. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e9956	It goes over the rest of B.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e10770	During the debate, Mr Huitfeldt put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. Item 161 is increased by SEK 18.5 million for the establishment of the Nordic Horn of Africa Opportunities Fund in Somalia. Chapter 164 Item 72 is increased by SEK 1.5 million to support the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons [[ICAN]] The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e11576	During the debate, Steinar Ness put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to forward the investment in new artillery, with a view to delivery to Norway during 2019.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-12-14.ana.ud316e13058	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
