ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e209	Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the agenda be amended by case No. 2 is moved and processed after case No. 13th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President would like to inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e227	A new alternate shall be elected to the Electoral Committee. The President is asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e234	I suggest Erlend Wiborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e243	Erlend Wiborg has been proposed as a new alternate member of the electoral committee. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e253	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 3 to 13 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e380	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five lines of response to the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e393	The national transport plan is the most important and comprehensive matter the Committee has to deal with over a major period of time. I would like to thank the entire Committee for good cooperation, but also thank everyone outside this house who has contributed good input and constructive feedback over the last four years. Special thanks are given to the representatives of Stordalen, Gruvan and Raja for their cooperation on the position of the majority. Together, we agree on a journeylift without parallel in recent Norwegian history. The ambition of the National Transport Plan is to better bind the country together, enlarge housing and labour market regions, facilitate jobs and value creation across the country and make people's everyday lives safer, simpler and better. At the same time, the transport sector will be at the heart of the transition from Norway to a low-carbon society, and new technologies will open up new opportunities, increased mobility and new modes of transport. Norway is already the world leader in the use of environmentally friendly technologies in all parts of the transport sector. No other country is phased in low- and zero-emission cars as quickly as Norway, and in shipping Norway is a green leading star. At the same time, we see that public transport and heavy transport have also started the job of transforming into environmentally friendly technology, well-helped by Enova. In 2014 there were several who were critical of us letting Transnova into Enova. We thought this approach would give greater strength to climate action in the field of transport. There is no doubt that we got it right. When Transnova was in the state budget as its own post, 90 million were allocated. kr. In 2016, the investment in climate in the transport sector almost doubled under Enova. It has given an actor like Asko the opportunity to purchase a hydrogen truck and build a hydrogen filling station powered by solar cells from its own storage roof. It has given an actor like Selfa in Trondheim the opportunity to develop the world's first electric shaft, and it has given us the world's first electric car ferry in the West – to mention something. We're on the threshold of a new era, and evolution will probably go faster than anyone could imagine. The most important way to reduce emissions in the transport sector is to replace fossil fuels with renewable ones. With battery prices falling on the world market, exciting prospects for hydrogen and a growing commitment to sustainable biofuels, there is every reason to be optimistic. The global climate challenge is best addressed through technological advances that decouple economic growth from emissions growth. Norway is becoming an international testing society towards an emission-free transport sector. It can also help to facilitate new Norwegian jobs and give us more legs to stand on in the coming years. People won't choose green because it's green, they have to choose green because it's better, cheaper, simpler and more efficient, whether it's about making it easier to travel collectively, safer to ride or cheaper to choose an environmentally friendly car. New technological solutions can also revolutionise public transport – and in its extension, passenger car traffic. The biggest challenge of public transport is that it takes you from a place you're not, to a place you're not going to. Routes are among the companies that are working to solve this problem. The idea is that you can order an autonomous electric minibus via an app and that the minibus will close you and other passengers in the vicinity of the nearest collective hub. The threshold for collective travel shall be lowered that way. If we succeed in developing smart cities with smart collective solutions, it could revolutionize the transport sector and fundamentally change our relationship with the private car. In this transport plan, we set for the first time a billion dollars of technology, which is just about to develop and implement new smart solutions that can give us a simpler and better life. No matter how the world evolves, there's some kind of promise we can't get out of. The State must help the major cities and urban areas to realise the real large collective investment and to achieve the objective of taking traffic growth with public transport, bicycles and corridors. That's why we're adding a record wager on urban growth agreements and reward schemes of more than 66 billion. kr. In parts of the country, the railway is also an effective means of access that helps to enlarge housing and labour market regions, thus giving more opportunities to live where they want to, while at the same time working where they want to. That's why we have to invest almost 200 billion. kr in rail over the next 12 years, the largest investment on rail in modern times. A central part of the railway operation is the freight package. 18 B.C.E. kr shall help to obtain more goods from road to road. There is expected to be strong growth in freight traffic in the next few years, and there is a great benefit for society as a whole if most of the growth comes at sea or at sea. The ambition to bind the country better together is expressed through a number of major individual projects, from the Hålogalandsvejen in the north, via E6 on Helgeland and in Trøndelag, Møreaksen, Hordfast and Rogfast in the west, E39 and E18 in the south – to name a few. In addition, considerable resources are available to reduce the road and track losses. The maintenance allowance increased year by year for several decades until 2015. Then we managed to reverse the trend, and maturity was reversed to renewal. Over the next 12 years, we will further reduce the maturity, but also focus on repairing tunnels, racial protection and better state-of-the-art. It is essential if we are to increase security, security and prosperity on Norwegian roads, for both people and goods. The ambitions of society in this hall require money, a lot of money. 1 000 B.C.E. kr shall strengthen the Norwegian trade effort over the next few years. This means that the strong escalation carried out during this period continues into the next. But just as important as how much money we plan to spend, how much way and path we get out of each heads. During this period, we have adopted two significant reforms, which in total will help to reduce the cost of road construction by tens of billions of dollars. New roads will save 30 billion. kr – or 20 pst. – in a portfolio of 530 km with mainly motorway. It's in itself a revolution in transport. At the same time, Bane NOR believes that they can reduce investment costs by 10-15 pst. By 2030 it amounts to between 20 and 30 billion. kr. We have to keep thinking, organizing better, planning more efficiently and building faster. I am pleased that the majority in the Chamber voted in favour of these important reforms and today gives an important signal that the changes must continue. The alternative to changes in the transport sector is confusion. For many decades, the weather was the norm. Fortunately, that time is over. I now take care of the case rapporteur's hat and draw attention to the opposition's options. It is alarming that the largest opposition party is presenting a plan without realism, direction or strategy, with a gap of over 100 billion. kr between the promises they give and the frames they add up to. It is not an alternative transport plan, but a wish list free of priority. The many promises of the Workers' Party, in addition to the framework they themselves have put in, add up to a place between 120 billion. kr and 160 br. kr, depending on the amount of cost reductions possible on the project free of charge E39. This is embarrassing surrender policy, which means that the voters cannot rely on one of the promises made by the Workers' Party, because they simply do not know which of the promises will be financed if the party is given government power. The Workers' Party promises to complete the intercity sections by 2030. In that case, it'll cost 27 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The working party is adding 2 billion. kr. What would happen if the Workers' Party were to deliver on this promise? Are there road projects in the districts, are there racial protection projects, is it the rail freight package, or does the party simply not intend to deliver on this promise? The working party also proposes to speed up 27 named projects, which together have a price tag of 50 billion. And to that, they're adding 5 billion. kr in funding. In addition, the lot proposes that the free E39 be completed in 2033, but introduces a reservation on cost reductions. But even if the Workers' Party manages to halve costs, it will still cost 67 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The Working Party will add NOK 0. This is not populism. It's raw populism. It is alarming that Jonas Gahr Støre puts the party’s economic credibility at stake – or out of play. The structure of the Workers' Party also contributes to undermining the confidence of voters in — and purpose of — the National Transport Plan as a strategic transport policy. Finally, it is worth noting that the government and the cooperation parties are united behind a comprehensive plan for the transport sector over the next 12 years. On the other side of the central political line, we find chaos. The Workers' Party will build the E18 West Corridor, the Center Party will push it out in time. The Green Party and the SV do not want it at all. The Central Party's Life Signe Navarsete believes the East has got too much, the Workers' Party will use even more. SV kutter 100 brd. kr in new road projects, the Workers' Party promises to accelerate roads for 50 billion. kr. There is no common direction, no indication of a minimum common multiple. It should be noticed by the voters. I also want to give credit to the other opposition sections, which have added a table that goes up. So it's not clear to the Workers' Party, and it's quite eye-catching in itself. I hope today's debate will give us an answer as to what the opposition will actually prioritise, if they get government power. The setting leaves more questions than the answer. That is why I look forward to an informative debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e467	Despite the fact that this plan extends over 12 years towards 10 years earlier, many have been disappointed in the presentation of the government’s proposal to the NTP. This is because several projects from the previous NTP are not included, and a long range of road, track and coastal projects have been postponed to the more uncertain last six years. This is not least because costs continue to rise. Reduced scheduling time - what is the point of it if the means are not available when the projects are scheduled to start up? The crown example here is the joint project for road and track Arna-Stanghelle and Ringeriksbanen/E16 Skaret-Hønefoss. What helps to cut out the municipal sub-planning phase when the start of the projects is postponed?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e472	Thank you for the question. The working party's solution to the problem raised by the representative of Romemevið is to contribute all the projects to the NTP, but without adding any money. We prefer to put forward a priority plan, where we say, year by year and period, what we're going to give priority to in a table that actually goes up. It could have been very positive if the Workers' Party had also done the exercise that all of the other parties have been given. In many projects, we have managed to reduce both the planning time and the implementation time. New Weier is a good example of a company that makes it happen. In this context, it is worth recalling that the Workers' Party voted against the creation of New Roads, which helps to implement precisely what the representative Rommetvei is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e479	Like the representative of Astrup, I am pleased that the Stadstunnel will have its long-lasting realization in this plan. Otherwise, I have to say that what's of coastal action is rather sad stuff. Unfortunately, the government of this field has not reached more than 86 pst. the degree of flooding of the current NTP. Therefore, in our proposal, the Labour Party has 22 port and fairway actions from the last six years and will have them realised in the years 2018-2023. In our proposal, we have included again in this 12-year plan a total of 31 port and fairway measures, which were prioritised in the current NTP, but which are now not included in the overall government gross domestic product. The question to the representative of Astrup is: why has the Right and Government forgotten and suspended the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e486	We haven't forgotten or exposed the coast at all. We have carried out important fishing port projects during this period, and there are also major and important projects within the next twelve-year period. And that's what we're going to follow up. But unlike the Workers' Party, we have a plan that goes up. That means we have a plan where there's a connection between what we promise and the money we put on the table. The workers' party's promises to the coast are worth zero, because they have a sub-covery in their How should people along the coast know that it is precisely their projects that are being prioritised, and not a faster completion of intercity and ferry-free E39, or speeding up a number of road projects that cost 50 billion. NOK, where the Working Party has added 5 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? People along the coast don't know that. With us they know what they get. We have also said clearly and clearly that we are positive to all those who are applying for local deforestation of fisheries and fairway projects, and we will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e491	The proposal for NTP is an ambitious plan for infrastructure construction and maintenance across the country over the next 12 years. Yes, someone has even claimed that it is too ambitious. There's reason to assume, with a great deal of probability, that the space of action in the next few years can be slightly less than what we've experienced in the last few years. To what extent does the representative, Astrup, believe that the plan now presented will be realistic and feasible in the context of the analyses of what space of action we now have for the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e498	The proposal for a national transport plan is a clear and clear priority for transport in the coming years. I am pleased that we are jointly following up the strong commitment we have had in the last four years, where the appropriations for road and track have increased by 50 pst., with a continued rise in the years to come. But that means that this is prioritised higher than most other areas, and I think that's important, because it's important for most people in everyday life, it's important for business, it's important for the ability to create values across the country, and that's despite all that makes it possible for us to have the well-being that we all appreciate. So it's ambitious, but at the same time it's realistic to implement. I think this is important for the country, and this is a great and important day, given what we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e505	As the representative of Astrup was in it, the increase in costs has been great. There's probably a lot of reasons for that. One of the reasons is that you have put on the standard, which means that you get more expensive projects. Like the Centre Party, the right has been concerned with rational development and has adapted the contracts and progress in order to achieve it. So to the challenges that the machine contractors have raised several times, and it is that the contracts are so large that there are very few Norwegian operators who are winning with tenders. My question is: What will the Right do to bring down the cost growth and ensure that several Norwegian entrepreneurs win contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e515	Fortunately, Norwegian entrepreneurs have won the majority of all the large contracts that have been awarded recently. I'm glad. This shows that the Norwegian entrepreneurial market is able to adapt to larger contracts. The experience from Nye Weger shows exactly the same – where contracts of 1 billion were previously said. NOK was large enough, so Norwegian entrepreneurs are now taking contracts of 3 billion. kr. It's a positive development, and it shows that we're competitive to build a road in this particular terrain we have after all in this country. I am pleased that the representative of Sjelmo Nordås is concerned with reducing costs, and at the same time it is striking that the Central Party chose to vote against two of the absolutely most important reforms to reduce costs and get more way and go out of money, namely the railway reform and the creation of New Roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e522	I choose to be concrete instead of taking the big picture, because it's a line. One of the grips that has been taken and that have had positive effects is to have faster progress in some planning processes. This has been used, for example: two sections where the road and the railway are planned together, namely on the section between Arna and Voss and on the Ringerix line between Hönefoss and Oslo. The whole problem is that even if you have achieved faster progress in the planning process, you stop completely when the planning is done, instead of starting construction right away. Does not the winnings with faster leveling processes go up in spins when the government chooses not to give priority to money for the rapid development of the Ringerix Railway and the railway between Arna and Stanghelle?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e529	The spade of the Ringerix track shall be inserted in the soil in 2021. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås’ party had an ambition to start in 2023 in the transport plan currently in force, so it is a significant acceleration of the project and shorter planning time than the average for a Norwegian transport project. So it's going faster. We should've started up before, but we're starting at 2021. Then there are some cost excesses that make it necessary at Arna–Stanghelle to go one more round because it became significantly more expensive than what we were presented in the basic document from the transport modes. At the same time, we get started there by 2022 at the latest, and we're working on finding solutions to see if it's possible to start up even before.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e541	It should be easy for people to get out. Increased promotion, better security and environmental considerations will underpin the transport policy of the Workers' Party, so that people and goods can emerge quickly and safely, and that we can reduce climate change emissions. We need to plan jobs and housing better, so that we spend as little time and resources as possible travelling. Driverless means of delivery and intelligent transport are already revolutionising the transport sector. We will facilitate this development and look optimistically at how digitisation can create a significantly safer and more efficient transport system. The costs of road and rail construction have increased significantly in recent years, and we are getting less and less money. We have to organize the development of infrastructure in another way, a way that gives more road and rail, and more ports and airports again for the money we spend. In the coming years, we will face three major challenges in the transport sector. The first relates to climate emissions. We will meet our obligations under the Paris agreement to cut CO 2 emissions by 40 pst. However, because the transport sector is the largest non-quota sector, there is a basis to assume that we in that sector have to cut about 50 pst. It is then possible that this plan coincides with challenges up to 2030 – the plan will run until 2029. The challenge is that greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic increased in both 2014 and 2015 before a cautious decrease in emissions occurred in 2016. It requires a significant change of pace in the coming years. The government transport plan is a traditional sector plan, an investment plan. At the same time, we know that it is not through investment in infrastructure that we will solve the climate challenges we are facing. In this sense, the plan is disappointingly focused on what only falls within the Department of Transport. We are facing major changes — and opportunities — as a result of very rapid technological developments. Sensor technology, greater volume of processors and artificial intelligence, together with climate requirements, lead to a future paradigm shift in the sector. We shall meet at the same time as the economic space will be significantly smaller, according to the government's own description in the perspective communication. So five days after the government presented the perspective statement, an ambitious national transport plan with a very high level of investment that does not take over the economic space. Through questions from the Committee, we have challenged the government on the underlying assessments of the feasibility of the plan. We don't get an answer to that. The government can't explain it. One undertakes to make repeated reservations that the implementation of the plan must be followed up with the annual government budget, but also that the economic space will allow it. When the growth of costs in the sector is out of control, the reconciliation of defence with the foreseen growth in transport investment takes almost the entire space for action in the economy, the overall socio-economic benefit of the plan is -179 billion. kr, there are major technological advances that are not taken into account and planned, and the government is deploying tens of large projects which together lack about 200 billion. kr on full funding, it is no wonder that many environments raise questions about the sustainability and uncertainty associated with the feasibility of this plan. The Labour Party has different priorities than the Government. We are ready to meet the challenges we face, with active policies that work and that ensure that everyone has equal opportunities. There is no level B. The consequences of climate change emissions are already noticeable, in Alaska, Greenland and Norway. It is too late to stop climate change, now it is urgent to ensure that they do not cause insurmountable damage. We have committed ourselves through the Paris Agreement, and we must follow that up. The transport sector accounts for a large proportion of domestic climate emissions, and there must be significant reductions if we are to succeed. Then it's not useful to sit passive and wait for the technology and the market to come and save us. A clear policy must be pursued, with clear requirements for emission reductions. Positive and negative incentives must be used to promote the desired development. In order to trigger market forces, clear political action must be taken to create that very market. We in the Workers' Party will facilitate this in our alternative. The sea is the basis for Norway as a nation. We have always lived by the opportunities and resources provided by the sea, and the sea will be the basis for future value creation in the nation. We have the world's second longest coastline, six times more sea area than land, and 80 pst. of the sea areas located north of the Arctic Circle. The Labour Party will develop and implement an ambitious sea strategy for Norway. The goal is to develop new knowledge of sustainable value creation at, below, in and above the sea level. Then we will create new, profitable jobs in existing and new marine industries. But then we have to invest in an infrastructure that makes it possible to harvest the sea and still be a world-leading maritime nation. Therefore, unlike the government, we give priority to coastal and fairground measures in this plan. For the Workers' Party, the aim is to ensure that all public roads in Norway are safe. It's primarily about feeling safe when you're walking along the roads, but it's also about a certainty that you have a predictable future. Steps and potential risks of serious incidents in tunnels create uncertainty in many communities. This creates great delays and problems for transport and business throughout the country. Therefore, the pace of road safety needs to be adjusted, regardless of who owns them. The future is digital. What can be digitized will be digitized. Good digital infrastructure is at least as important as roads, railways and other basic infrastructure. But then there must also be digital opportunities for everyone, all over the country. In order to maintain and further develop the competitiveness of Norway, the Labour Party considers that Norway should be the leader in the provision of a good digital infrastructure. The government has not given priority to ensuring digital access across the country. It is therefore necessary to intensify the development of full broadband coverage. As with other major infrastructure deployments, the Workers' Party believes that the Community must take responsibility for ensuring equal opportunities for all. This is too important to rely on market forces alone. We also see that, depending on where you live, there are big differences in what opportunities you have, and too many people have too poor opportunities today. We want to create a digital infrastructure plan that ensures a high-capacity modern network access where there is no basis for commercial development. The third major challenge I mentioned in the introduction is cost growth. It's been big in the sector over time. It is not a new development, nor is it a strange development, but this government has not managed to meet that challenge. The government itself writes that the cost of road projects increases by 40 pst. during the period and with 30 pst. for railway. It is not sustainable in the future. We need to have control, and we need to have an organisation and planning in the sector that ensures sound and sustainable project development. The working party will make it one of its main priorities. We will meet this with modern policies and with clear demands for enhanced project implementation. It is about reviewing standards in the sector and standard choices on individual projects. It is about using both existing and emerging digital tools, both in terms of planning and design, which could provide great savings in industry itself. It is about being open and learning from ‘best practice’ from other countries and adapting it to Norwegian conditions. It's not always that we in Norway have found the final recipe on how to build roads and railways. As we do in other sectors, we want to establish a cooperation area between the transport modes, the construction sector and research institutions. The task of the State is to organise innovation and research funds to ensure that new technologies and measures can increase productivity and reduce costs. It is about developing the contract strategies used by the State so that we can get the lowest possible price while ensuring Norwegian employment and that small and medium-sized enterprises can participate in a technology and knowledge development that will also take place in this sector. We have done well for many years in the offshore sector. And not least, it's about developing the state's project models and looking at how we design the tenders, to ensure that we get the best possible competition. The Workers' Party has provided an ambitious, serious and responsible alternative to the Government's national transport plan. Our options will provide more climate-friendly transport. Safe, good and efficient transport will ensure growth, profitable jobs and housing across the country. We make a clear prioritisation of the coast and in terms of collective and climate action, we secure our roads, and we say that everyone should have access to high-speed networks. It offers equivalent opportunities in the country, a country where everyone is going to be there. I have to take the opportunity to correct an incurrency. On page 28 of the Innst. 460 S, in the left hand column, where it says about the Workers' Party's proposal to speed up projects, we've used the figure 5.1 billion. kr. The right number there is going to be 4.4 billion. kr, and it will be throughout for all references to the proposal in the vote, in comments from the Workers' Party as well as from the other lots. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind, alone and together with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e588	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e595	It was interesting to hear the representative Sivertsen worry about the action space in the Norwegian economy, and that the plan presented by the government and the cooperation parties will not be realized because it is too ambitious. But at the same time, the Workers' Party is laying up a higher framework – a higher framework – than the government and the cooperation parties are doing with 7 billion. kr. In addition, they add between 120 billion. kr and 160 br. kr in unfunded promises. This is unbelievable. One of the promises they give is to speed up intercity by 2030. They're adding 2 billion. kr – it costs 27 br. kr. My question to Sivertsen is: how to get the remaining 25 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? What concrete projects will be undertaken to ensure that the Workers' Party fulfills this promise which they make to the voters? Is it the coastal projects that he talked so much about? Are there road projects in the districts? Is that racial protection? Is there any grant for county roads? What's going on? And I ask the representative to be specific.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e602	It is obvious that the representative, Astrup, cannot have read the settings properly enough. The representative Astrup criticises us for being irresponsible. It is after he himself has stood here and defended a plan that has twenty projects to be launched but is not fully funded during the period. It's after presenting a plan where there's no control over costs, and there's no plan for how to bring costs down. It is after presenting a plan that does not address the significant uncertainty associated with technological change, but is careful to be passive in waiting for technological and market developments. We have higher ambitions for intercity than this government has. The reason we've ended up in this mess is because we've lost control of the costs of the projects. We have asked for a comprehensive plan to be presented, reviewing the projects to see how it is possible to implement it by 2030, and not to discard the cards as the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e611	The overall plan called for by the representative is called the National Transport Plan and is being discussed here today. We've put forward a plan that's funded. The Workers' Party has submitted a non-funded scheme. I record that I have no answer to what projects the Workers' Party will cut to fulfill the ambition and the promise they give the voters to build intercity by 2030. We're honest that some of the projects that we're starting up aren't going to be completed in this period. But we don't add up to funding as if they were going to be done. We provide funding according to the progress plan we have. The Workers' Party, on the other hand, sets up a plan of progress that is totally unrealistic, completely unfunded, and that makes it impossible to rely on one of the promises made by the Workers' Party, because they do not have the money to fulfill them. My question is again: what projects should the representative Sivertsen cut to fulfill the promise to build intercity by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e620	This government has thrown the cards. You give up the idea of a free E39. You push intercity out in time without trying to maintain your ambitions. A large number of national road projects are being pushed out in time because costs have been lost. Coastal and fairway measures are being reduced during this period and do not provide the framework foreseen by the Stortinge in 2013. A large part of the coast is chosen to wait for the next twelve-year period. We have higher ambitions. We have not in any way said that we are fully financing intercity, but we are criticising the government and the party represented by the representative of Astrup for not having control of the costs, for not being able to meet the ambitions of the Stortinget, and then throwing the cards. We have not said that we are fully financing; we have asked for a new review because this is not good enough. We want a comprehensive plan to review this and show how we can achieve the ambition to complete intercity in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e627	The representative Sivertsen was, on his breath and breath, in the news picture after the government parties and cooperation parties presented their NTP. Then it was – and also in this post, we could hear – so that people were concerned about the use of money, and it was a huge ambition. It was also stated in the media by the representative Sivertsen that it should not be a long wish list, it must be a plan that could be implemented. Furthermore, he said in the media, in the puff and out of breath, that it wasn't safe we had to build so much way in the future, because of new technology. But then I wonder one thing: why on earth be so busy accelerating 27 road projects if you don't have to build so much road in the future? It's a little bit interesting to get answers to. And of course, you can stay a little bit longer by just putting 10 pst. of the money in, and there will be a long wish list. But why so busy, I could imagine knowing, with 27 road projects, if at the same time you think you don't have to build that much way?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e633	The representative Stordalen comes from a party that has gained some experience that the plans presented are not feasible. Four years ago, his party presented a plan in which they promised 454 billion. kr more for transportation. This represents approximately 180 B.C.E. kr for the four-year period. You're not close to achieving that. This lot has a tradition of presenting plans that cannot be implemented. You can't do it. The voters have been softened for approx. 170 B.C.E. kr for which you have not delivered. It has been important for the Workers' Party to respect the ambitions of the current transport plan. The projects we plan are projects that the government has chosen to take out, which they do not prioritise in relation to the current transport plan. We believe that there are good reasons for lifting those projects. The projects we want to speed up are projects that are in the current transport plan, which the government has pushed out in time because the government has lost control of the costs in the sector and has no intervention or response to how to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e640	In the notes to the National Transport Plan, the Workers' Party states that ‘road private debt financing is poor management of Community money’. It is claimed that when ownership is left to private, it gives less way to money. The type of contract referred to here is OPS. But through the sub-financing scheme of most major road projects in this country that most of the parties on the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party, have fully accepted, namely the Toll Scheme, it is such that the toll companies raise loans for which the drivers have to pay. What is the reason why a private debt financing is accepted by the Toll Scheme but does not accept the same type of financing through the OPS projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e645	There is no one in this room who is strong followers and believes that tolls are a good thing to the public. I think the representative Gruvan agrees with me that tolls are a necessary evil, because we have a great need to invest in transportation, and it will be impossible to meet all those wishes without being able to use tolls. It also shows the government's plan, where a Transport Council from the Progress Party recognises the need for tolls, and presents a historically high demand for tolls of 130 billion. kr to finance the plan he has submitted. I do not agree with the premise that the toll companies are private. I think it's a public structure, where the loans are guaranteed by municipalities and county councils, local and regional authorities, and that there is another design that contributes to funding important local and regional road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e652	The representative Sivertsen was involved in the cost growth. The cost growth has been quantifiable both for road projects and for railway projects. How does the Workers' Party see that we need to manage to reduce this cost growth, so that we can get the most way and go when we start investing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e657	Let me start by pointing out something that the representative Astrup was in his post – he claimed that there are no similarities between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. Let me then thank the representative Sjelmo Nordås for the good cooperation in the work with NTP, where we among others. has relatively comprehensive general comments that point in exactly the same direction and provide an alternative to the government. One of the areas in which the Working Party is involved with the Centre Party is just getting control of costs. In my article I referred to a wide range of measures. It's all about everything from cutting down the planning time to taking advantage of the opportunities for new technology, where according to the industry you can save up to 20 pst. It sounds very ambitious, I think. It is also about implementing specifically priority projects, as proposed by our former government, which are also the basis for much of what is happening in New Roads, and it is about choosing industrialisation and financing of construction, which could potentially bring great savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e664	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e669	Today, the Stortinget deals with a national transport plan that is the most ambitious plan ever. Let me first thank the representatives of Astrup, Raja and Gruvan for their good cooperation. This plan is not just ambitious; it is funded on the basis of strict priorities. It is important for the country that such a plan not only becomes a long wish list, but a plan that can and will be followed up in the next few years' budgetary appropriations. The party went into government to change the Norwegian transport sector for the better. We would have faster and more coherent road development, unless tolls, and we would make sure to maintain the roads we already have. We are now building down the maintenance run on state and county roads. We have a duty to do that in the interests of taxpayers and, not least, our future generations. Maintenance was, as is well known, almost absent during the previous government, with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. There in the farm there was the most focus on string cutting, while in the country's media you could read that the decay increased every year on both track and road. Good maintenance is not only good economy in itself, but it increases the safety and security of all those who use the road network in our long-term country. During this government period we have established the road company Nye Veier AS after many years of fighting, where the Progress Party was almost alone in thinking alternative to the traditional way of building a road. The results so far show that it is possible to build a new, continuous high-speed route faster and cheaper than the State Road Service. The portfolio of Nye Veier AS, which is 530 kilometres of highway, will be built on impressive 12 years – and not 20 years, which was first foreseen. In addition, it will save taxpayers for a total of 30 billion. kr. This is going to be a couple of inverses. Get it, whoever can! We've set up the Infrastructure Fund, 100 billion. kr, which will ensure more infrastructure financing. We're building more new roads than ever, while reducing toll usage. Any increase in road appropriations in the national transport plan will now come through increased state resources, proving that the toll ratio is falling, as a result of the fact that the Progress Party is now in charge of transport policy. We provide lower toll tariffs for the drivers through the toll reform and the subsidy scheme, which alone accounts for a total of 6 billion. further in the relief of the drivers. The railway reform ensures that all good forces in both the private and public sectors are involved in developing future train services, where customers’ wishes and needs will be even greater. There will be great efforts to expand passenger train capacity, with intercity routes to Skien, Halden and Lillehammer – as well as the Ringeriksbanen. With the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party – and the Christian People's Party and the Left – there is also funding for these sections, where it is also a prerequisite that a train tunnel in Oslo is built in order to get the effect out of what is going to be intercity. Large stakes in the freight package make the train more competitive for the carriers. We are scheduled to complete the maintenance run on coastal infrastructure. In addition, it is now included in the plan that there will be a new airport in Mo in Rana on Helgeland. Here it is stated that an agreement can be concluded as soon as possible, in order to start as soon as possible with the private funds allocated. It could mean a lot for this region in terms of reducing travel prices, when it is organised for competition on flights. To put it mildly, it is alarming when we are debating such a large and important plan today that the largest party in the country – the self-declared governing party, the Workers' Party, with Jonas Gahr Støre at the head – does not have the ability or priority to create an overall alternative plan. Earlier this year, the same party leader stated that the cooperation parties in front of the NTP had the memory of a ‘walking circus’. It is possible that the Working Party must bite into it itself. Not a single table has even been provided for the Storing of the Workers' Party, only some notes in the form of a note. At one moment, the Workers' Party spokesperson Sivertsen says that in the future you won't necessarily have to build that much way because we get new technology. In the next round, the Labour Party's same spokesman – today – is calling for an acceleration of 27 road projects, as we thought it was set by 5.1 billion. Another NOK, but where it might now be $4.4 billion. kr in the containment. Then you can wonder if it is a wish list, and whether it will hold at all. Then party leader Jonas Gahr Sturge goes out and admits that the same working party could have added 10 pst. the costs included in the plan. With this, transport policy to this party appears to be a large, wandering seminar, which has not yet concluded – while waiting for what their potential partners, SV and MDG will do. As you know, neither SV nor MDG will build a special road. The Central Party will build less on the East, the Workers' Party more. Get it, whoever can!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e699	Before the 2013 election, the Right and Advance Party promised the voters to go to war against the bureaucracy box. The result is that wages are now paid to almost 8 000 more public servants than the government of Stoltenberg II did. There are about 1,500 new bureaucracies in the department and the directorate. The proposal of the Right-wing Party Government for the NTP states that they will continue the red tape and efficiency reform. It is not particularly ambitious when we now see that the government's own reforms have, on the contrary, given huge growth in bureaucracy. Nor do the members of the Progress Party and the Right in the Committee seem to be very concerned about putting an end to the bureaucracy box. In fact, the only comments in the NTP setting of concerns about money disappearing into bureaucracy and not for transport purposes come from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. So war on bureaucracy now seems to have been transformed into a warm embrace by the Progress Party. Why are the ambitions so low?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e704	I think the Labour Party should ask themselves what to do. The Progress Party has been part of a government that has reformed both the road sector and the rail sector, etc., and has taken steps to build cheaper, fairer and faster, precisely because we respect taxpayers' money. We have respect for the Norwegian people, who are going on the Norwegian road network. I think the Workers' Party should rather go on its own. What have they done to reform? They have voted against any attempt to reform to make it simpler, fairer and cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e711	The working party has great ambitions and much to do. All the concrete proposals we make are being criticised right now in this Chamber by the Right and the Advance Party for being too ambitious. That's weird. The representative boasts of all the reforms – new roads, county road rate compensation schemes, toll subsidies and railway reform. Is there one thing we know, is that all these reforms also lead to growth in bureaucracy and that they red tape processes. So the progress part used to be the biggest champion to do something about this. Now you've gone down. The party programme for the 2017-2021 Progress Party states: ‘The ever-growing public bureaucracy is a threat to the ability of individuals to develop.’ To me, it does not now seem that the Progress Party thinks this is a threat, but rather a necessity. Not one word has the Stordalen and his party written about this in the NTP setting. Is it that the Advance Party keeps its voters from fooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e726	The progress party is very busy reducing bureaucracy, and we do that every day. Part of the bureaucracy that Mr. Tung refers to is there because we actually build more than ever. It's quite true that in the start-up phase we're spending a little more on some reforms that can save the Norwegian people too much money in the future. It should also be the Workers' Party's concern. I record that the Workers' Party in its NTP is more concerned with using monopoly money and telling Norwegian people fairy tales than doing something concrete for Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e731	The progress party has often been seen as the ‘road party’. In the proposal for an NTP currently under consideration, there is a historic commitment on the road, but also on the railways. More than 330 billion. kr is set off for, among others. intercity and several other major railway projects. To what extent is the representative of the Stordalen satisfied that so much money will go to the railway operation over the next 12 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e736	I can assure the representative of Gruvan and the Christian People's Party that I am very pleased that there is so much use on infrastructure, both on the road and on the track, where most people live in this country – in the eastern part of the country. It's very important to give people alternatives to communication with means of transport, so I'm very pleased with that. It's not about road or runway across the East, it's about both.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e741	In the election campaign four years ago, we heard a lot about the red-green building in pieces and divided. Now there would be complete and coherent expansions. But when we look at NTP now, we see that there are quite a number of places where there is a lack of continuous expansion. I can mention E6 through the Gudbrand valley, E6 in the North and E16 in Oppland and Hordaland. Why does the Progress Party no longer stand by its demands for continuous expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e746	The party of progress is absolutely committed to building coherent and complete. I think New Veier is a very good example of it – 530 km of non-returnable highways are built continuously and completely, and we have many projects that are built even more coherently than it has been done before. This plan also shows that. Some projects are delayed because they have become much more expensive. I think it's okay to take a little time-out to see if you can make the project more reasonable and simpler, and look at it with new eyes, just because it, as it was put up, and as the basis was, didn't last. So we strive every day to continue that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e751	It's positive that we have a state council that's occupied with bicycles. It's a very nice bet we have together on bike express routes. I have noted that the Workers' Party cuts a total of 4,000 million. kr to the cycle express roads, thereby reducing Tromsø, Buskerudbyen, Lower Glomma, Kristiansand and Grenland the possibility to apply for these means. It's a little hard to see why the Workers' Party doesn't want to be on the team with these smaller urban areas, but they still defend these cuts. Does the representative of the Progress Party think that the cycling effort we are together about is a sound and good effort to raise the share of bicycle routes, or does it seem that it would have been better to do as the Workers' Party proposes – to cut the stakes for Tromsø, Buskerudbyen, Lower Glomma, Kristiansand and Grenland?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e756	I can assure the representative Raja and the left that I am very satisfied with the agreement we have in the plan. I think bicycles are important to facilitate. We know that in the big cities the potential is great, but I'm also happy that we have a cooperation that makes it easier, more reasonable and easier to build bicycle paths even outside the urban areas that don't necessarily have an alternative today, and where you have to ride a strip. Then I think it's okay, and very good and happy, that you make arrangements to build simpler and more reasonable, so you get an alternative. I also agree that in the big cities you are allowed to build a little wider and larger walking and cycling paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e761	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e766	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Left, Right and Advance Party and is very pleased with this NTP, which involves a large, important and absolutely necessary journey promise across the country. The measures provided for in this plan will increase road safety, reduce climate emissions and improve accessibility in both cities and districts. This is a plan that continues the offensive bet these parties have had together over this four-year period, because we believe that a krone for transportation is not a spent krone, but an invested krone. Road, train, public transport, maritime transport and aviation are not consumption, it is investment, and it is about taking care of and upgrading infrastructure that is passed on to the next generation. For the first time in the NTP, there is a separate chapter dedicated to the knowledge and organisation of children and young people’s transport needs, the Barna transport plan. The children are the road users of the day and the future. Their needs must weigh heavily when designing future transport solutions. With this plan, we prioritise safe driving for children and young people, good training and awareness-raising work in a way that we have never been close to before. Transport modes are now mandated to involve and take into account children and young people when planning and building transport systems. Knowledge of road safety shall be enhanced in schools and kindergartens. Traffic-oriented awareness-raising activities are strengthened, and Barna’s transport plan will facilitate eight out of ten children to choose to go or to cycle to school, provide for a massive expansion of safe school roads and walking and cycling routes, enhance road safety for children and young people, both through physical measures and through awareness-raising work, and not least strengthen the competence for road safety in kindergarten and school. We in the Christian People's Party are satisfied with the strong bet on the path and cycle path that we now get. We're going to have a total of 2.7 billion. kr in the national transport plan for the route and cycle subsidy scheme, the reward scheme. The funds shall be used for municipal and county roads to stimulate full cycling packages in municipalities and counties wishing to bet. 135 people died on our roads in 2016. That's 135 too many. Traffic safety is about focusing on the whole traffic system: road user, vehicle and road. School, media and traffic training must work to create attitudes and good behaviour in traffic. The vision shall be clear to us: no one shall be severely damaged or killed in traffic, for we have no life to lose. The state company New Weger was established by the cooperation parties in order to implement overall planning and development faster and more cost-effectively than has been the case in the past. New Roads have a limited mandate to implement the development of new tribal road sections. We achieve a more comprehensive and coherent development of the main road network in Norway, we reduce planning time, base predictable funding and have established a road company with a padded profile to rig a more efficient European road development in the country. The new strategic approaches help to strengthen value creation in our country and improve accessibility and safer roads for our citizens. The projects that have so far passed the Stortinget show that one manages to reduce the cost of large road projects by an average of about approx. 20 pst. Summer brings great savings, through greater cost awareness, involving entrepreneurs earlier in the process and standardising the construction process. We note so far that Nye Veier has fulfilled – and actually did. New roads provide more rapid and fairer roads. The resistance of the working party here is completely incomprehensible, but perhaps not surprising if you look at the story a little bit. The working party talks a lot about efficiency improvement, but in practice they do the opposite. Christian People's Party, Right, Advance Party and Left, on the other hand, does what we say. We implement, and we provide more money faster. Let it be clear: for the Christian People's Party, it is not appropriate to accept anything other than that New Roads should be an important tool for building roads more rational, more coherent and faster in the years to come. On the part of the cooperation parties, it has been put up for a historic commitment to coastal action and maritime transport, and one of the shelling measures of the Christian People's Party is particularly pleased, is that we can finally complete the City Tunnel, an action that will secure the sea route along the coast, and certainly also become a spectacular attraction, which will further create values in terms of increased tourism to the area. In order to allow more coastal projects to be carried out at an earlier stage, several host municipalities, county municipalities and economic operators have expressed a desire to accelerate investments in ports, fairway measures, which are a priority in the plan. That's why we're now going in to open the gap. Earlier implementation of this type of measure will result in a faster triggering of the benefits of the measure. There has been a significant increase in costs in the ferry sector, with a corresponding increase in public financing needs in recent years. In fact, the government’s expenditure on the purchase of national road haulage services has increased by 60 pst. from 2010 to 2015. The budget assumes that the cost will increase by a further 50 pst. during this year. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the renewal of ferry offers is used to also renew the ferry and secure new and environmentally friendly ferries, while at the same time we want better control of the cost growth that has occurred in this area. Int. 307 S for 2015-2016, referred to in a joint committee opinion, points out inter alia: on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, where we propose to organise ownership and operations by requiring the State to take greater responsibility for the material situation on the national roads. We believe that through a new model, the state can stimulate innovation and development more effectively and in the long term. The extended TT regime for visually impaired and wheelchair users is essential for many blind and wheelchair users to live a normal everyday life. We note that during the red-green trials were started, but never introduced a national scheme. The Christian People's Party and the Cooperation Parties are pleased that a national system is now under establishment. In the budgets for 2016 and 2017, the scheme is extended to new counties and there is a clear premise that it should cover the whole country, which will mean a lot to those affected. This is about human dignity and the experience of being included. As a representative of the South, I must also be allowed to express great pleasure in the fact that major road projects in the region are now being adopted. Today, the route E39 Kristiansand–Lwagal west, which is part of the portfolio of Nye Weier, is a project of over 20 billion. kr, which will mean a revolution in travel time and the reduction of traffic accidents on one of the worst roads in our country. Societal accounting, with reduced travel time, a sharp decline in traffic accidents and increased value creation, makes this a very profitable project. All of us who have fought for this route are celebrating a milestone today, and I want to take the opportunity to thank the part of the country for having been together over time on this priority, in addition to E18 and Rv. 9th@item: inlistbox We look forward to the start-up and further planning and construction of the E39 up to Ålgård. While we have recorded that nothing happened to this one, one of the most perilous tribal roads in the country, during the eight years of the red-green government, the cooperation parties have taken hold and made sure that this project is planned and started of enormous importance for the region. This should not be forgotten by the voters at the time of the selection of the harvest. It is also very gratifying that we finally got the connection of Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen, the so-called genistek, into the NTP. The regional enlargement created by this project, with reduced travel time by train between South and Eastern Europe, will mean a great deal for the increase in the number of collective journeys and also for increased value creation in the regions concerned. The cooperation parties have submitted a plan for more road and track, coastal facilities and aerodromes within a framework of well over 1000 billion. kr. There's a lot of historical stuff and it's giving you an intrusive journey lift for the whole nation. During the large-scale period, the government and the cooperation parties have overfilled the national transport plan with a good margin. Maturity has turned to renewal, bets on public transport have multiplied. We have put forward a scheme that is funded, credible and hanging together. Then it is alarming that the Workers' Party is presenting a proposal that promises more projects than they spend money to finance. This makes the Workers' Party's roadlifts not credible. An example is that the Workers' Party will complete the ferry-free E39 in 2033. This costs tens of billions of dollars, but the Labour Party, as far as I can read, does not add extra dollars to the table, at least not enough to finance this promise. How are the voters going to believe in a scheme that is so little based on an operation where two plus two is no longer four, but five or six? Making new technologies more efficient or developing is good in itself, but believing that they are to be done in a magnitude that makes it possible to implement the wish list over the twelve-year period does not create credibility. And when, during the period we have been through, the Workers' Party has largely rejected new measures that can contribute to more efficient deployment and saving costs, such as: The creation of New Roads will likewise be difficult to believe that the focus should be shifted over the summer by addressing more effective measures to which the vote has now been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e799	As we hear, the Christian People's Party is largely satisfied with the transport plan presented here and the policy pursued. But in the case of one area, in which the representative Gruvan was also inside his post, I am very excited about whether the representative Gruvan is satisfied, and that is the coastal effort. As we see, it's down-prioritized and shifted to the last period. This means, among other things: that many important fairway projects and fishing ports will not be launched before perhaps six to twelve years. One of the projects is in the representative Gruevan's own home country, which has to wait a long time. I hear that this is to be solved with an advance shot, but it is probably not possible to get away from all the bets. In addition, it is also known that this responsibility should be assigned to the regions after 2020. My question to the Christian People's Party is: are you satisfied with the coastal effort we see in this NTP? A follow-up question related to the shooting they're talking about could be: Should the government take the bill for the extra cost of this shooting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e809	We have presented an NTP that takes account of the whole country, where the coast is also part of our priority. But in a comprehensive plan, it's not possible to get into all of our desires and everything we could have wanted to do. I believe that is an experience that the Workers' Party has also done. There's going to be more money in the last six years, and that's why we also have the opportunity to add more projects there. We also see that where it is possible to get to a previous start-up, there is a clear priority need, one of which, not least from the point of view of business interests, sees the benefits and value of. That's why we've put in an opportunity to advance. We believe that, given the interest shown by municipalities, county councils and business actors, it can be a way of accelerating individual projects that we think more people will take advantage of.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e816	The representative of the Count also talked a lot about uncertainty in his speech. It's just going to be with such a system, where you actually don't know who's going to pay, and if you're going to move responsibility to someone else when this is going to come into force. The representative of the Gruvan was in on the Nye Veier. I do not know what he has read in our scheme that has created uncertainty around New Roads and the Workers' Party. What we've said about is the organization, not the projects. There's another thing I will also challenge the Christian People's Party on: Councillor Solvik-Olsen stopped the use of the distance-ATK early in this period and was instructed by the Stortinget to put it into use again. After a lot of time and time one has started to put it back into use again, but I note that the same batch still does not want the distance ATK, nor is it included in the comment that is in the setting of the NTP. I even see that they're out in the media trying to stop new projects. Is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the way you deal with this with distance-ATK in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e827	Route ATK is an important measure in some, especially accident-affected sections. The Christian People's Party is crystal clear on it. We see it especially when it comes to tunnels. We see it on other sections where there have been ugly passes, and where the distance-ATK will have a well documented effect, which has also been found by, among other things, Transport Economics Institute. So, in our opinion, the use of the distance ATK will be an important tool on some sections, of course not on all, and we think it will help reduce the number of accidents in a good way. This is an action that we will continue to support and help to ensure is established on the routes that are particularly suited to this and where it can provide a proven good effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e832	With this NTP, the government has ever presented the most ambitious plan. In addition, the existing NTP is overfilled after four years at the rudder. This is important for development in all parts of the country, and we must facilitate good and efficient transport. How does the representative Gruvan look at the bet in his own part of the country, South Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e837	In fact, South Africa has had some of the most heavily strained tribal roads in the country in terms of the number of deaths and serious injuries. We have a significant share of heavy traffic, which in itself poses a major increased risk of accidents. That's why we've been asking for a long time to be given priority, precisely because it brings good socio-economic benefits. What has happened with New Roads and the portfolio that New Roads have received, and the rapid expansion that is now taking place at a reduced cost compared to what was originally intended, gives a boost in the country that everyone applauds — not least to increase road safety, but also to increase the availability and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e842	At the end of February, the party leader of the Christian People's Party stood on the platform in Arna together with Erna Solberg and exposed a new path and road between Voss and Bergen. It was a decision that was met with disbelief from the Christian People's Party party in Hordaland. Why in the world has the Christian People's Party been involved in postponing the construction of a safe road on the West and the railways on one of the routes where the trade unions have clearly prioritised this? Why has the Christian People's Party rather chosen to give priority to motorways, which are undesirable in the Eastern region, over the railway, which are wanted in the West, and which are prioritised as No. 1 of the Christian People's Party's own party?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e849	E16, in terms of road, and path on the same route, is a priority project in the NTP that we have now submitted. We have a clear intention and a goal that this should start as early as 2021, no later than 2022. It's precisely because we now want to get to a bet on a highly rascal area, which has been waiting a long time for a better solution. We're adding 14 billion. kr there, and we think that by spending a little bit more time on the last planning will get a better project. Then, when we get a start, hopefully in 2021, which we have as ambition and goal, we get to a continuous expansion that gives the right solution for the residents and users of this route – in terms of both road and track – that is in demand and insistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e854	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e859	The matter we are dealing with today is becoming very technical. There's a lot of numbers, tables and text, but it's about everyday life for all of us -- how and how fast we're going to get to work, how safe it is for our kids on the school road either on foot or by bus, and how the goods we need every single day are going to get there. Planning these transport systems is demanding at a time when technological development can change the prerequisites for how we travel in just a few years. Climate challenges mean that transport must also become more environmentally friendly, which is challenging at a time when we are growing more, we are moving more and more, and more people live farther away from where our goods are being produced. The centre party will develop a modern and forward-looking transport system that will facilitate, speed up and improve traffic management. There must be good communications and transport opportunities across the country. The centre party indicates that roads, railways, ports and airports contribute to the linking of the country and are essential for economic development and for people to live throughout the country. The needs of both districts and cities must therefore be met. A robust infrastructure with good standard will also improve traffic management and allow the transport system to be used as much as possible by all. Increased accessibility, improved safety and environmental considerations must form the basis for transport policy. Climate change has consequences for roads and railways, and it needs to be ensured against more and more frequent races. There is therefore a strong need for racial and tunnel protection on both county and county roads. The Communication proposes to continue the growth of annual appropriations for NTP purposes started and implemented by the Government of Stoltenberg II in the period 2005-2014, a growth followed by the Government of Solberg in the period 2014-2017 by using the red-green NTP. The Communication shows that there is a great need for improvements in the coming years in order to achieve the objectives of transport policy. Perhaps the main challenge in addressing these challenges is the strong cost growth in the sector. Only in the four years after we presented the NTP in 2013, the cost of projects and areas that were prioritised in the current transport plan has increased by several tens of billions. In addition, several tens of billions of cost growth comes from other projects. It's an important question, what's the reason for this growth? The overall result is that a plan over 12 years of age, using over 1000 billion. kr, including tolls, are too many experienced as little ambitious and a great disappointment as many projects have been pushed out in time or are no longer prioritised. The cost estimates in the notification show that the government has not been able to address this cost increase. This effect is particularly evident in the first six years of the plan. The high levels of economic, legal and political commitment have grown significantly over the past four years. We're getting less and less and less money allocated. In the future, we need to organise the development of infrastructure in a way that provides more for the money. The centre party believes that a greater degree of consideration is required of coherent development and development contracts in order to achieve a greater return on the state investment made, and contracts must be adapted to the construction industry. Requirements for increasing standard and scope in projects contribute to increased costs. Therefore, the management of the projects from design selection to completion needs to be strengthened. Despite the significantly increased frameworks to which the notification provides, there is no means to follow up the commitments in line with previous NTP or to implement other necessary measures. The consequence is that many projects within the last NTP adopted in 2013 have now been pushed out towards the end of the 2020s or are out of the plan. The centre party indicates that the government is now postponing previously promised projects, which, for example, now start in 10 years or may not be completed before 15-20 years. The central party considers an increase in the overall planning framework for NTP of 7,17 billion. kr is necessary if one is to be able to develop a transport system for the whole country. The Central Party also proposes a shift in the use of money to the first scheduled period, which is in line with a number of inputs, including: from the Main Organisation of Business. The Government’s proposal for a national transport plan has a distribution between the transport sectors that differs from previous plans by giving priority to road construction for the benefit of rail. The centre party considers that the priority between the sectors does not correspond to the proportion of transport carried out. However, the centre party believes it is important to have a railway sector uplift as the red-green government provided. The centre party considers broadband and access to the fast Internet to be as important as road and rail infrastructure. That is why we choose to give priority to this in the national transport plan. The digital rights of all people that we launched at the beginning of the 2000s are about enabling everyone throughout Norway to participate in technological development and in the digitisation of society. Digitalisation is important for business, individuals and the decentralisation of services and jobs. In our order, we're going to put a total of 6 billion. kr for broadband extension. That's equal to 500 million. kr annually, which is maximum under the EU State Aid Agreement. In addition, we have a goal that by 2020 all households will have access to broadband with at least 30 MB/s. The centre party believes that the level of investment in coastal infrastructure is too low and that this weakens the possibilities of freight transport between road and sea. In addition, the opportunities for the fishing industry are weakened because necessary investments in fishing ports are so late in the planning period. This is why the Centre Party is proposing a coastal package to support the development of ports, fishing ports, entrances and fairways, and we will ensure a stronger response, if necessary, in this area. The package shall finance and support projects within the national transport plan, in addition to those we have specifically prioritised, and finance projects under the previous NTP. The centre party is particularly concerned about the inability of county municipalities to meet the challenges of maintaining and improving the county road network. There is a large maintenance run on the county roads, and KS indicated in the committee consultation that there is an annual need for 1.5 billion. NOK 2 billion. kr to maintain the standard. This cannot be resolved within the current framework, and KS arranged for a 10-year national maintenance programme on the county roads. The centre lot refers to the fact that the county road network is not covered by the appropriations under the national transport plan and considers that an ambition for a strengthened transport effort must, overall, also include a separate investment on the county roads. I refer to the Central Party's proposal in the setting of the municipal bill, where we increased the framework of the county councils and launched a maintenance program for the county roads. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the tunnel safety regulation has put heavy costs on the counties and that the majority will stop compensation to the states in 2020. The lot of the centre will continue this compensation to 2024 so that the counties are able to implement the requirements of the regulation. The centre party is very surprised that the soil protection targets have been taken out of the staging message. The development of transport infrastructure is one of the most stressful measures in the food sector. Infrastructure planning must aim at reducing the re-disposal of food land to an absolute minimum, otherwise we will not achieve the objectives of the Storting soil protection strategy. The central party believes that the objectives and measures of the soil protection strategy must be included in the work on transport infrastructure. Furthermore, the Center Party believes that scaffolding is important. Many projects remain on both the national and county roads. Reference is made to the fact that the magnitude of migration is expected to increase as a result of climate change and more rainfall. The centre party prioritizes to increase the scrubbing framework and has added 1 billion. kr more in the first period and 1 billion. kr in the second period. This allows for the deployment of several projects. Furthermore, the Centre Party will have a smooth phase-in of funds over the planning period and a 50 pst distribution between national and county roads. Each. Furthermore, it is assumed that the State Road Agency’s scramble protection priority key is followed. The party to the centre refers to the introduction by the government of the EU Tunnel Directive, the so-called Tunnel Safety Regulation, without the county councils being put in a financial position to implement measures ensuring that the tunnels have the standard required by the regulation. The government will continue the transfers to 2019. The centre party believes that this is not sufficient as the need in many of the counties is much greater. In recent years, we have seen many more events in tunnels, including: fires that could have had a much worse outcome than what has happened. The centre party believes that the efforts to secure tunnels must be stepped up and set by 2.3 billion. kr for this purpose. The centre party indicates that aviation accounts for an important part of the transport offer, in particular in the districts. Aviation binds the country together and, together with increased digitisation, is one of the key factors in countering centralisation. Regional airports are of major importance for local business for the public sector and for people most and need a predictable framework for further operation and development. I would like to point out that there has been an error on page 77 in the setting by an incurrency. There, during the mention of E18 Lysaker–Beach, it was said that we are laying the foundation for start-up in the first part of the second planning period, not the last. Then text and tables are in line with each other. Finally, I take up the suggestions behind the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e899	The representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e906	It must be a goal that all public roads in Norway should be secured against migration. It's both about feeling safe when you're walking along the roads, and about making progress is going to be good. Skred is currently causing considerable insecurity and major delays and problems for transport and business throughout the country, and climate change indicates that we will have a greater need for security in the years to come. The right and the right Party Government does not have sufficient priority in the four years they have run, nor do they do so in their proposal for a national transport plan. That is why the Workers' Party has said that priority will be given to tailoring. Then I wonder: How important does the Senterpartiet believe that the slip protection of the Norwegian road network is?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e914	The centre party believes that scaffolding is absolutely necessary. We see that it rages more often and in more places than before. There is a need for racial protection both on the county road and on the national road, so we've added up to a reinforcement throughout the period of 1 plus 1 billion. kr, and to phase in projects earlier than what is expected in the NTP we are dealing with today. Racism is a high priority, and it is absolutely necessary if we are to ensure that the children arrive safely at school, that the goods arrive at their destination, and that we, as commuters, arrive safely at our jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e919	I believe that the Centre Party wants to continue the effort on the ferry-free E39. We share the ambition of an upgraded and ferry-free E39, but we see that it can be difficult to implement as planned by 2033. This is why we are starting with projects that have the greatest impact and that build strong housing and labour market regions and facilitate growth and value creation. We're talking about Rogfast in Rogaland, Hordfast in Hordaland and Møreaksen and eventually Havast in More and Romesdal. The center party is going to solve this challenge of cutting 4 billion. kr i Hordfast. My question is then: how has the Central Party intended to implement the ferry-free E39 when they are going to cooperate with the party that is opposed to the project, and the only contribution they have in connection with this NTP is to cut 4 billion. Hordfast?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e926	The center party is very positive to the E39 and thinks we should implement it. But I think it is absolutely necessary that we look at both the progress of the project and the costs of it. A number of fjord crossing projects have become much more expensive than the idea. You have to look critically at cost cuts, so you have a real chance of doing what you're going to do, at the fjord crossings that are. The reason why we're pushing Hordfast by 4 billion. kr, is that we want to look at the project again, to see if it is possible to find cost-reduction measures that actually provide a realistic opportunity to implement a free E39 within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e933	When this government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, together with the cooperation parties the Christian People's Party and the Left, presented their NTP, the representative Navarsete from the Central Party went hard into the media: there was too much money going to the East, especially to trains. Then we have this treatment, the Center Party then shows in a way to the Stoltenberg government's ambition of intercity, which was to be completed by 2030. At the same time, the Central Party says that it really supports this government and the parties' ambition that intercity should be completed by 2032/2034. Does that mean that the representative Sjelmo Nordås agrees with the Stoltenberg Government's proposal to be finished in 2030, and the Workers' Party's proposal to be finished in 2030? Does she now agree or disagree that it is realistic, or is it unrealistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e938	What's important is to make sure that we get the start-up bet on intercity. It's an important extension that we've been visiting and looking at progress on. So the cost has increased. It is important that we now implement the expansion, but not necessarily in the tightest time frame, because I do not think that is realistic economically. That is why the Centre Party has not taken part in the comments on this either. But the railways are going to be important – not only for the East, but also for the rest of the country. Therefore, until the roll-out of the NTP, the Central Party wants to see how to take the long sections further into a new era, both in terms of electrification and in terms of how to connect the country, among other things. Ofotbanen is a good proof of – which is not part of today's NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e945	The Centre Party proposes, as one of its proposals to finance new projects, to reduce costs of operation, maintenance and development of roads and railways. After all, the centre party has been with the Transport Councils for eight years, until 2013, and so far I have registered, often opposed reforms, for example. on the way, as we see today, has helped to reduce costs on road development. What measures is the Central Party considering in the coming years that can contribute to precisely the cost reduction proposed here?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e952	There are many measures I think it is necessary to look at. One thing we've seen in this four-year period is that we've increased the standard requirements for a number of road sections, we're adding up to a higher speed, we're adding up to more expansions of four fields – not just narrow four-field roads, as the Senterpartie suggested in the previous planning period. I also believe that it is necessary to look at the whole phase from planning to realization in order to reduce costs, and it is absolutely necessary to realize the most possible of the projects within the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e957	I note that the Center Party cuts the funds to the E18 West Corridor and pushes the first part of the project out to the last part of the final planning period. The project is an important measure for people in Bærum and will allow Bærum and, as a result, Asker to drive the same urban development that was achieved in Oslo with the Bjørvika and the Opera Tunnel. The action will provide better collective solutions and better conditions for cyclists, which the Center Party says they will prioritise in Oslopackak 3. E18 shall be built not only to build roads but to provide spaces for urban development and good solutions for public transport and bicycles. The project gives two of the country's most populous areas less noise and air pollution, there are extreme amounts of noise and air pollution along parts of this stretch. My question is, why does the Central Party not enjoy two of the country's most populous municipalities this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e964	On the contrary, we cherish the people of the country getting good roads. We also enjoy Oslo and Bærum getting good traffic solutions, but we want to have railway and collective bets first. That's why we're proposing to push four years on that project. I refer to what I said in my post that there was a problem with what was in the setting. It should have been said that we base start-up in the first part of the second plan period, not the last one. Then we also want to move on with plans for a ring 4 around Oslo. I find it quite illogical that goods going west, southward or northward should go through Oslo. I actually love to let the locals go. So that's exactly the part that needs to be seen in the context of an E18 expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e971	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e976	Then the committee has come almost to an end of four years. Before I start NTP, I would like to start by thanking the entire Committee for good work and cooperation in the last four years – especially my partner over these four years, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, with whom I have had a good cooperation in getting joint, good projects. Of course, I would like to thank the government parties for the NTP work. But I would also like to thank the opposition parties. Sometimes we've had to seek some help from the Center Party and the Workers' Party to get a majority in the committee, and we've done that. I will also go a little out of the committee and thank Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, who is sitting in the hall. We have made some good suggestions during this period and also got some of it through. And finally, of course, I would like to thank the Council of State for a great deal of work over the four years, but especially here, with this NTP that we are very proud of and have been involved in. It's a complete and good plan that's going to benefit the whole country. NTP is very ambitious, but we in the Left have been concerned that NTP should be realistically implemented, with a responsible use of money. All the projects in the plan have realistic funding based on the assessment of costs by the department and trade unions. It has been important for us to have an ambitious plan, because we need to build the country in order to maintain and improve the mobility of people and business. Without a large-scale investment in infrastructure, Norway stops. NTP shows that the cooperation and government parties want to continue the massive investment in transport we have seen so far, where we have helped to overfill the red-green NTP. Developments in the transport sector have been a major success in the last four years, and there is a strong consensus on the steps to be taken. It's a It is historically high, and in our work we have been concerned that the plan should be realistic and in line with our further ambitions for the sector. For the Left, it has been particularly important to put forward a plan that offers massive investment in rail, public transport, bicycles and corridors, while at the same time providing infrastructure and building a road for the whole country. Yes, there is also a road to be built, because there is a great need for this across the whole country. When I rode from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, I saw the need to repair the country's roads to make them safer and more efficient for people who are going to travel from one place to another – whether by bicycle or by car. There is also a lot of maintenance to be done again. With this plan, we're going to put up with the bets on public transport, with $66.7 billion. kr for this purpose. The bike bet is a total of 11.7 billion. kr, or nearly 1 billion. kr per year on average. We're very proud of that. The commitment to environmentally friendly transport in the plan shows that the agreed objectives are taken seriously from the climate agreement that all urban passenger growth should be taken into account by public transport, bicycles and corridors. And for a railway bet it's – 45 pst. the investment funds go to the railway. We're going to build railroads all over the country and deliver the railroad bet of the times. All 45 pst. goes to build new train lines. We're going to continue to work on resuming the maintenance run, as we've done in the last four years. 126.1 B.C.E. kr shall go for that purpose. The Oslo tunnel shall be completed in 2032. Based on what I can understand, this is the fastest year that can be realized in order to get it done. Intercity to the Ski shall be completed in 2032, Halden and Lillehammer in 2034, The Ringerix Railway shall start from 2021. In the case of Arna–Stanghelle, we have said that this will happen by 2022 at the latest, but the ambition is that it should be started by 2021 – all four parties initially agree that we should do everything possible and everything that is needed to get to a start in 2021. In addition, several other representatives have agreed on the interconnection of Vestfoldbanen and Sørlandsbanen – «Genistrek» – electrification of Trønderbanen and Meråkerbanen, the freight package of a total of 18 billion. kr, the update of the survey on rail in the north, ERTMS and not least a strategy for the further construction of rail in view of high-speed networks between the major cities of Norway and beyond in Europe. If you realize this, this is a big piece of railway history. What we can say is that you vote for one of the parties that put this NTP forward, over the last four years, we have shown that we are able to bet on the railway – and not just abilities, we also have a strong willingness to do so. As I mentioned, we have overfilled the national transport plan with a good margin, with 5 pst., 10 billion. kr. The maturity has turned to renewal on the roads, and in the railway the maintenance run is now falling. The effort on public transport has doubled. We've come up with a plan that's funded, credible, that's linked. Each action is financed in full, either within the planning period or with a view to completion and funding also after 2029. NTP is historical in several ways. It is the first NTP that reduces a quantifiable proportion of the maintenance seat run when one third of the due on the road and track are to be removed during the planning period. This is the first NTP to set a clear measure of the amount of goods to be moved from road to sea. And when we talk about the package of goods that some parties are proposing to cut, I would strongly warn against it. There are actors who are already unable to trust that goods will be sent in the way that we prefer it to be sent, and if we are now to send mixed signals about how much the parties want to bet on goods in the future, I am afraid that several actors can turn the other way and will not bet on sending goods by rail or sea. It is important that we are able to maintain the package of goods that we are now presenting, for a total of 18 billion. kr, and I do not believe any cut in that package is sound. It is also the first time that a separate chapter is created in NTP to take particular account of children in the transport sector. Part of this rose goes, of course, to the Christian People's Party for raising this especially. Overall, NTP provides a promise that generations after us will benefit from and will make transport a competitive advantage for Norwegian companies. Cooperation parties are united on important priorities that will provide security and predictability in transport policy in the coming years. In conclusion, I would like to stress that through NTP, the country is to be built – it is to be built together. We also need to reform the country. We're going to have comprehensive strategies for rail, road networks, coast, aircraft and freight, and we're going to build the country so that we can meet the future with new technological solutions like self-driving cars, buses and boats. What is also important here are the important reforms we have done so far, which we believe have been absolutely necessary. Now I am not going to go into Nye Veier so much – I noticed that a representative was given a good opportunity to answer for it. In the case of rail reform, it is the largest transport reform carried out during the period. The organisation of parts of the railway sector has been reversed, and this has been done completely without the attention of passengers. Clearly, it must be called success. The result of the rail reform is clear: clearer lines of responsibility, clearer incentives and a more customer-oriented sector, both for freight and passenger transport. The Bane NOR Chief has stated that he will be able to save 10–15 pst. on maintenance and investment when he is now receiving multiannual budgets. It'll be well over 20 billion. kr in the following years. There are savings that I notice that the Workers' Party and the Centre initially say no when they want to reverse the railway reform. In the case of New Roads, it is gradually a little unclear what they really mean. Sometimes they think that what New Roads do is wrong, sometimes they think that what New Roads do is good. Since they are doing well, it may be a bit difficult to be against New Roads in the election campaign the Labour Party is going into. The left is very pleased that we are going to convert to a low-carbon society and thereby facilitate the further development of successful companies that are betting on technology and the green shift. If we're going to succeed in turning into a low-carbon society, we have to maintain the benefits and incentives that we have for low-carbon cars. It is very big when other countries come to Norway to learn how we have managed to facilitate a zero-emission vehicle fleet that is growing, and the world looks at Norway to learn how Norway does this. The world is going to look different in a few years, and our mobility is going to change significantly in the next few years, with self-driving cars, i.e. autonomous cars, etc. We have to make that right. No one knows what the future will bring, but the left has always worked for – and will continue to work for – that we should always be ahead of each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1020	It will be a line from Akershus representative Myrli to Akershus representative Raja on an important Akershus case, namely a new bridge over Glomma on Rv. 22 in Fet, so-called a new cross-glomma, as I have seen that the representative Raja has also spoken about. This is one of the major issues in the region, an area of major traffic problems today. In the previous national transport plan, there were appropriations for a new Glomma crossing from 2018. Mr Solvik-Olsen, Minister for Transport, said from the Chair here in the Chamber that with this arrangement a new bridge could be completed in 2024. Now, with Raja at the head, the majority is postponing a new Glomma cruise with the best allocation from 2024, i.e. several years of delay. My question is quite simply: Is Raja satisfied with what he's got for what's new about Glommacrossing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1029	I am very pleased with the national transport plan that we are now delivering, and we also provide a solution for Glommacrossing. I have been there and visited the area, and I have also launched how to find a good solution for this. There's a local disagreement about how to do it, but what's important with our NTP is that we contribute to the full funding of all of the projects that we have prioritised. We're showing you direction, and we're showing you how to do it. The structure of the working party is difficult to find good ways to characterize. But when, for example, will accelerate a total of 27 projects costing more than 50 billion. I'm going to pay you $5. I'm going to pay you $5. For this, it is impossible to understand how to jump. What they're saying to everyone is, we promise you that all of their projects will come first. It's going to cost 50 billion. I'm just going to have 5 billion. kr. – but vote for us, and we'll solve this. How this should work out is completely impossible to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1036	I have registered that the representative Raja is an avid cyclist – last time he cycled Norway in the summer of 2015. After 28 days on the bike seat and contact with a number of bicycle clubs, I guess maybe Raja is the one who has the best basis among committee members to see the need for the sick. What did Raja think about is that the Labour Party now wants to cut 4 billion. Do you have bicycle express roads? What does he think this could result in?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1041	I am very positively surprised that the representative has such a good insight into how long I spent on that trip. It's positive. I cycled from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, and I got a whole 60 bike clubs. It was a long trip. Our country is absolutely amazing, and even more beautiful from the bike seat – because then you actually have some time to enjoy what country has to live on. We all want to be here in the hall, I think people should ride more, but some are actually quite afraid to ride. You come out from heavy transport and cars. The provision of good bike routes is necessary. Bicycle expressways are clearly a contribution to make more people feel safe to do so. That Norway's largest party here in the hall is talking about more people going by, but at the same time they're making a total of 4,000 million. kr to these roads, to me, is completely incomprehensible. They take from the smallest urban areas to re-disposal the money to something completely different in the big cities. Why they're going to be enemies of these little places, I don't get it. Why they're going to be the enemies of the cyclists, I don't get it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1048	I want to start by giving tribute to the representative Raja for the job he has done to make the transport sector more climate friendly, and for the cooperation our two parties have had in both this and many other areas of the period that is now behind us. Norway has committed itself to achieving the climate targets by 40 pst. reduction of emissions by 2030. In what ways does the representative Raja believe that the submitted NTP will be a tool for achieving the climate objectives in the transport sector, all of which agree that most and most of the cuts must be made if we are to achieve these objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1055	Much of the emissions in Norway come from the transport sector, and in my own country, unfortunately, a high level of emissions is coming from the transport sector. If we are to succeed in achieving our climate objectives, the key – as the representative says – is in the transport sector. Here we see that an NTP has never had a bigger stake on the railway. It's going to be a lot easier to take the train, and it's also going to be cheaper to take the train. We've done that together with the discount we gave a little while ago. Never has a national transport plan been more committed to public transport in large cities, and the effort commits the State to a multiple of the previous plans. The State has also made a greater contribution to environmentally friendly technology. In 2016, Enova contributed nearly 900 million. kr to green transport conversion. In 2014, the State contribution through Transnova was only 90 million. kr. It is clear that this and a number of other measures in total will help bring down emissions in the transport sector. If we get them down in the transport sector, we can make it easier to achieve our climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1070	It was okay that the representative ended up talking about the technological development of the sector and Enova's fantastic role in this regard. Because for four years, the Left has crafted everything they've done with the government, and one of the things left has been busy is a hydrogen bet. Can I then ask the representative: is the Left satisfied with what they have achieved, with Enova's hydrogen support system, which does not follow up the Storting decision to secure a network in the major cities and corridors between them by 2020? So it's assumed that there are only three hydrogen stations to start during 2019. The background is that it's a very tight system. So there are three stations that it opens to, with support for just 40 pst. of the investment and not operating aid — in other words, something quite different from what the Left has been pushing for, among other things. SV on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1077	Maybe you often see the splint in the eyes of others, but not the beam in your own. You can see what the party of the representative Eidsvoll Holmås himself did when they sat in government. One example is how the decay of the railway increased. In the case of hydrogen and electric cars, it's clear that we have to have both. But at the same time, we know that the hydrogen cars have not had the same breakthrough as the electric cars. It's much easier to charge an electric car than a hydrogen car. We know that the cost level of the hydrogen cars is higher. It's clear that we're doing a lot of significant work, and we've done a lot of work. The last thing we did, in the revised budget, is that we have granted some symbolic but nevertheless important money to the Hydrogen Forum on Skedsmo. This will help the county councils to come together and find good solutions for how to get to the network of hydrogen stations that you need. At the same time – before that – it is also important that we get a sufficient amount of cars that are functional, and the price of the cars must be lower, and I don't think they hit the Norwegian market as well as the electric cars do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1086	I would like to move on to the representatives of Gruvan and Raja's a little surrealistic passions about the climate impact of the national transport plan. The left is a game that's fixed to 40 pst. emissions in the non-quota sector shall be cut in Norway. And the answer to Gruevan's question is that in the version that Gruevan and Raja go in for, NTP cuts 15 pst. How does the representative represent Raja defend being in favour of a national transport plan that governs the Norwegian transport sector over the next ten years – until 2030 – and that cuts only 15 pst., when we are about to cut 40 pst. in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1094	I'm defending that NTP whole-hearted and mountain-ridden. All 45 pst. So of this NTP, I'm going to go to the railway, and then I'm going to be ashamed of it or take criticism of it. It's a completely unrealistic question that comes from there. The party with which the representative wants to cooperate wants to cut 4 billion. kr in the bicycle bet. And when we present the bet of the times on the railway, it comes from there that it's not green enough. An experience I did, maybe also Rasmus Hansson needs to make that experience, is to ride around the country to see where people live. People live far outside the big cities, where you don't have a railway, tram or T-Bahn, and unfortunately the bus doesn't go often enough either. It's not sure it's possible to get the collective effort there to be as good. There they depend on roads. We also need good roads. Bad roads are just bad roads. It has nothing to say for the climate. People also need roads. I'm very pleased that we deliver 45 pst. by the NTP to the railway, and it should also have enjoyed Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1103	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1108	The national transport plan adopted here today is going to stand as a white elephant, a symbol of a gigantic transport policy, a policy that has run the course of time. Despite the fact that everyone sees the future coming, including the Council of State, which itself writes it in the transport plan proposal with digitisation, electrification, self-driving cars, rail and the fact that climate change drives us to plan tighter and get a proper cut in greenhouse gas emissions, the large majority continue to plan to invest in motorways towards and between cities. It doesn't help that Erna Solberg talks about how important it is for more cities to be planned closely like Barcelona, instead of car-based like Atlanta. There are two equally populous cities, but people in Atlanta use many times as much space and emit a lot more greenhouse gas per capita. So it doesn't help that Erna Solberg talks about smart urban planning when the government's Minister of Transport runs through motorways after motorways as a decision-making decision makes Norwegian urban areas more and more like Atlanta and less and less like Barcelona. Instead of compact urban centres, the residential building is spread everywhere. Scattered residential construction makes people depend on cars and drive up new demands for more road construction, and that's exactly this paradigm we have to break with. Where the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party take the fight of the past, SV takes the fight for the future. Where the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party will build a motorway between cities, which weakens the competitiveness of the train for people and for goods, which is being moved to the road, SV builds a railway that strengthens the competitiveness of the train and moves goods from road to rail. Where the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party believe it should be a priority to build motorways around the big cities, SV will double the bet on public transport and bicycles and support all cities that will cut the traffic. With SV's plans, we get close to 60 billion. more for urban environmental action to cut traffic and strengthen the environment and cyclists. Where the government wants new runways on Flesland at Bergen and on the Gardermoen at Oslo, SV will have gliding trains between the largest cities in Norway and to our neighbouring country. This will replace air traffic and bind the country together. The Left and Christian People's Party has agreed to a transport plan that prioritises motorways and pushes railway bets, bicycle bets and public transport bets out in time. You build a highway before you build a railway, which the same parties put up for the road between Sandvika and Hønefoss and between Arendal and Stanghelle, never comes the railway. I notice the double morals of the parties. They talk about socio-economic profitability, and it is used as an argument against railway and light train development, but it is skillfully dropped as an argument when gigantic motorways are to be built. Where the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party prioritize the past, SV takes the fight for the future. And we're giving priority. Let me give you one example. For the costs of the huge and enormously unprofitable Hordfast and Møreaksen, we can give priority to speeding up all the railway projects in the rest of the country that are in the recommendations of the trades: internal intercity, external intercity by 2030, Oslo Tunnel, electrification of the Solørbahn and the track over Røros, Ofotbanen, Jærbanen and, above all, we can speed up the Arna–Stanghelle and Ringerik Railway. It is a pity that the Progress Party, represented at Bård Hoksrud, stood and promised that external intercity would be completed by 2024 if only the Progress Party was controlled, are those who are prime engines to postpone external intercity until after 2030, on the basis of investigations that they four years ago called an ordering agency to postpone intercity. It is an established fact that the expansion of road capacity increases traffic and speeds up vehicle accessibility. The development of motorways therefore strengthens inefficient car traffic and inefficient freight traffic on train trains at the expense of rail and ship transport. The SV prioritises rail and will finance tolls because rail is financed by the State budget alone and is budgeted when the costs of deployment are incurred. As long as the cash-principal financing of railway development without tolls is to be set against the toll financing of periodic road development, the railway will lose. We also give priority to the coast, both by speeding up the development of freight and fishing ports and by giving priority to 4 billion. kr to electrify the coast, which will cut emissions and provide room for outstanding industrial development in the Norwegian shipbuilding and technology industries. In addition, we want to give priority to race safety and cycling routes within the national road frameworks. The national transport plan is even less national now than it was four years ago, because New Roads and Avinor's projects in the tens of billions of dollars class are outside the Grand Duchy's overall planning. We are therefore promoting proposals to wind up the tax-free regime and to maintain the financing of the short-distance network as it is today at reasonable prices, and we are putting New Roads under the state road system. Finally, I would like to address the proposals we have here, wholeheartedly supporting the general comments of the Workers' Party and the Centre, and just say that we are pursuing a policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1131	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1138	First a compliment to Heiki Eidsvoll Holmås: He is always pleasant to debate with, and he is ready in the speech. So I would also like to congratulate SV on the fact that among the three red-green parties, the ability to set up economic tables is inversely proportional to the size. Because it is clear that both the SV and the Center Party have done this in an excellent way, while the largest party is not really able to make what they are going to do visible. Of course, I am concerned about SV's policy, because it can influence the government that might have to be formed after the election – I hope it does not, but I would like to know what road projects SV will actually cut out on those who are in the very comprehensive document.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1145	Part of the road projects, as the representative says, are listed projects for projects, some of the largest projects, especially during the second period. In addition, we will have to go through the entire project portfolio on the road. In particular, we mention part of the motorway projects that are currently under New Roads and which we want to cut, and in any case to reduce to two/three-field projects. In addition, several specific road projects are mentioned there. So it will be that the clear signal we want to send, both through the concrete priority that lies there with re-prioritisation of urban areas and with the extension of the entire urban environment system to many more cities – to Narvik and Tønsberg, i.e. to many more cities than those who have the opportunity to get it today – is that we want to cultivate the compact city and the environmentally friendly urban development rather than building the motorways.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1152	I agree that the SV is at least honest in its arrangement, they should have, and there are clear priorities as seen. But the Workers' Party is giving the drivers a bomb shock by increasing the bomb load by 6 billion. NOK over the planning period, while I read that SV will spend 60 billion. tolls from road to track, on roads which are not to be built. The question then has to be: How much toll does SV think the drivers can withstand if you are going to increase by 60 billion. kr, while cutting so extremely on the roads? How high does SV think is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1159	We add up to exactly the same toll load as the Progress Party adds, so the representative cannot complain that we have a very high toll load if he believes that the Progress Party stands for a low one. But what we do is we let the drivers pay less to develop the biggest, gigantic road projects that are bad social economy and poor investment in the future, in an environmentally friendly future, while we spend more money to make sure that you get funded railway on some of the lines here, and I think that's a deep logic. We have to think, what is the best way to achieve it in the most efficient and environmentally friendly way possible? It's not obvious to say that what we're going to do to Sweden is build even more fields over the Svinesund Bridge to avoid more freight traffic. Then it makes much more sense that that money goes from the drivers to providing railway development, so that the drivers also get better accessibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1166	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1171	The national transport plan presented today should be sent back. A big thing that has committed itself to cutting 40 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector will now adopt a national transport plan that cuts 15 pst. Even though the representative Raja gave an unusually good example of the strategy poor-argument-high-voice when he was asked about this, the national transport plan thus cuts 15 pst. The Greens do not want to be part of this. We are therefore presenting our own national green transport plan, so that at least we make an honest attempt to keep it as the bulk of the population for the rest of the law. The government is betting more on the railway – great – but it compensates this in a familiar style, with the opposite: it is most heavily on asphalt, and the asphalt comes first. Environmentally interested voters should note that the Workers' Party is at least as eager to destroy more food soil, nature and gardens as the government is in its transport plan. The Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European An NTP must meet the climate promises. It must protect food soil and nature. It must focus on the groundbreaking technological solutions that are now in front of us. National transport plan Chapter 11.2.3., mentioning the technological possibilities on which NTP is not based, states: The development of autonomous vehicles ‘can bring about major changes in car maintenance and use, which are not captured in this scenario’. The autonomous cars already exist – they are parked outside here. It is not only possible, it is very likely that they will significantly reduce the need to own a car. However, the national transport plan is on the contrary based on the fact that everything on the roads will continue as before, that even more people will drive even further in their own cars – in 2030 and 2050. We're going to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on that to pave the way into it. This is the depressingly low-foreseeable use of society's resources. We can already buy electric cars and electric bicycles. Electric ferries and speedboats will soon become commonplace. Focusing on new technologies is not only a transport policy; it is also a business policy, because it facilitates new jobs, skills and green competitiveness. What does not create green competitiveness is to pave the way into the future. In order to take care of the future, the Greens will move 205 of the 1000 billion. kr that the government has in the NTP framework. We want to move it from motorway growth and growth in aviation to environmental change across the country. 128 B.C.E. kr for increased double-track railway operation throughout the intercity triangle, on Trunderbahnen, Vosebanen, Voss–Bergen, and Jærbanen. We're starting the planning of the North Norway track and new lightning tracks. At the same time, we want to strengthen racial protection, and we want to expand considerably more than the other parties propose, for multiplication and cycling. Maybe I'm unfair to SV here -- we'll see what they're up to. 20 B.C.E. For this we take from the commercial profit of the aviation tax-free party. We want to invest more in freight by sea, electrification of ferries, fast boats and coastal vessels. We want to increase the bet on buses outside the cities and strengthen the bet on public transport and soft road users within cities by about 50 billion. kr. We can do this within the framework. So a little bit about Oslopackak 3. The Greens came to the City Council in Oslo after the 2015 elections. Now Oslo is Europe's environmental capital. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate both the parties that were in the previous city council, which provided a good basis for this, and the SV and the Oslo Workers' Party, with which we have taken this job further. This is a strong message to the bulk of the population: ambitious environmental policies deliver results. The Oslopack 3 agreement secures 50 billion dollars. kr for public transport and cycle routes in Akershus and Oslo, among others. new Fornebu track, new trams, T-Bahn signalling system, centre tunnel, cycle path network and path on Lower Romerike. Nevertheless, the bulk of the population will overrun the Oslopack 3-unit and force through an old-fashioned, unnecessary and even larger E18 motorway through Oslo and into Akershus. The state road authorities state that this is «in conflict with» Oslopackak 3. The environmental choices should bring with them what is happening on the Stortinget now: Old-fashioned Stortings-Work Party is rolling over the modern Oslo-Worker Party. The left has become a motorway party together with the Progress Party. The future of Norwegian cities is better housing, walking and cycling. That's what we're going to do in our green NTP. I will bring this up with the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1209	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1217	I am very happy that Oslopackak 3 was mentioned, I will talk a little more about it later today. What I also want to say is that there has been cross-political cooperation between the Right Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Center Party in the two counties, and it has produced results: the collective transport in Akershus has increased by 62 pst. Since this started, in 2007, so I think it's good results – that haven't just come now, but that's the way it's been all along. What's a little interesting is that the Green Party was very steep in the negotiations with the Labour Party in Oslo, and we see perhaps an alternative where the Green Party could get to the tip of the Stortinget. I am not particularly in doubt as to which ‘tip’ they would come on – to say it this way – but how far will they go to push the Workers' Party in the same direction as they managed to push the Workers' Party in Oslo, in order for them to have government power?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1224	We'll go exactly the same distance in pushing the Workers' Party in an environmentally friendly direction as we'll go in pushing the Right in an environmentally friendly direction. And I am sure that if the Green Party comes to grips with the Stortinget, it is up to us to stand up to the Stortinget to make the best choice for the environmental voters in Norway, because then we will make demands that the realities sink into both the Labour Party and the Right, that we have to deal with a party that really wants to change the environmental policy and that will implement the policy that the Right and the Labour Party are going to legislate on. That is the essence of the Green Party – not an elusive revolution, but holding the promises of other parties, the great parties. We're going to be just as ambitious on Stortinget as we are in Oslo, and the results we've achieved in Oslo, have been absolutely brilliant. This means that the future of Norwegian transport policy is also very good, if the Greens get the opportunity to help the Right and the Labour Party a little faster in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1229	I noticed that the Workers' Party is cutting 8 billion. kr in the programme areas. The Greens are adding 9 billion. kr in the programme areas, but is it in some parts of the country where the lot is occupied by roads at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1234	To the extent that the representative Igstad has taken a look at our budget, the same framework, 1000 billion, is used. kr, as provided by the government. We're moving a total of over 200 billion. kr, of which snaue 170-180 bn. kr is from roads to railways. That means there'll be a lot of money left to go. There will be more to race protection and road safety, and there will be a lot left to make the road network better across the country, where there is a need for it. But what is the main direction of Norwegian transport policy is a more efficient collective system and a road system based on the technological change that is to come, and not on paving itself into a future where there is no need for that asphalt and we are left to regret all the nature, all the food and all the gardens that we have destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1239	It's interesting to hear the Greens talk about transport. We know they're against the car, and we know they're against the state deciding their own way. But what I could imagine asking questions about is when SV put in government. Then the budget for the railway was 8 billion. kr lower than currently in 2017, current year. But the representative Rasmus Hansson of the Greens believes that they have gone in the right direction, since it is 8 billion. kr higher than when SV was set, as you so easily embrace?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1246	Where my embrace of SV comes from, the representative will find out for himself. If he heard of it, he would have heard that I was just praising the railway operation that is in the national transport plan. That is a step forward, but that is not enough progress. We can do better, and we have to do better, especially now, when we're at a technological road junction, literally, in road transport. Then it would have been nice if representatives from all parties would end up trying to make life easy for themselves by saying that the Green Party is against the car. This is – with respect to reporting – deaf, and everyone knows it. We're for cars that don't ruin the climate, we're for a road transport that doesn't destroy food, cultural landscapes and the living environment – we're even for planes. We just don't want it to ruin the future of our children. I thought the Progress Party in itself agreed, but at least it is the Green Party's policy. And then we get to hope that the others come after.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1253	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1258	Infrastructure is the vein of our society. It connects the population to workplaces, to school, to leisure activities and to cultural services. This allows us to visit family and friends more often. Good infrastructure also allows us to make it faster, safer and simpler. We have short and long trips – some recurring ones, which we like to do 200 times a year, to and from work, others we take less. Many of them are predictable and planned, while with others we need flexibility. This means that we need to be able to meet both our everyday needs, diversity in society and the need for flexibility through the national transport plan we are presenting today. The fact that some can cycle to and from work does not mean that you can create a national transport plan where you assume that everyone else should do the same. Similarly, it is that someone assumes that they have to drive to work does not mean that everything should be car-based. We simply need to build the country to ensure the diversity and solutions for everyone. It means a good collection of roads and railways, good airports, good fairways and ports and good conditions for walking and cycling routes. We're going to do this, and we're going to be able to increase road safety and reduce emissions, both in terms of pollution, and in terms of noise, and make sure people have more time in their everyday lives. Many of the solutions that I see going to compete with the proposals of the government and the civil majority do not respect the fact that people are going to spend much more time in the alternative society they sketch. Time is suddenly something you don't care about. Time is also important to me. I have met very few families who say they have more than enough time, who do not experience time pressure in some way. I have traveled very much in my work. I have met users, commuters, drivers, contractors, civil servants, project managers, etc. They pointed out many problems, especially when I was in opposition, but also the early years in position. They pointed out a persistent decline in infrastructure, they pointed out slow processes, growth in bureaucracy and cost growth – yes, they pointed out that under the red-green government, costs increased by a standard road bill from 70 to 170 million. kr. I think it is very good that the Workers' Party has now, in opposition, been addressed by these questions, but I felt that in government they promoted few, if any, solutions. We are committed to making good progress in projects and improving road safety, but not least to ensuring that Norwegian jobs and Norwegian entrepreneurs develop this. It also recognizes one of the solutions that we are promoting in the national transport plan. The problems raised by the Labour Party are not new in this four-year period. But it's the first time that an actual is going to systematically solve them. It was missing under the previous government. So when the Workers' Party and the Centre here say that it is important to create Norwegian jobs, I remember that in 2012 about half of the contracts in the Road Administration went to foreign entrepreneurs. In 2013, Marit Arnstad traveled to Germany to recruit even more foreign actors. We have neither travelled abroad to recruit nor written in our national transport plan that we want to facilitate it, as the Workers' Party did. Therefore, it is a little strange to hear in this debate, which gives the impression from the Labour Party that all problems are new, and that now those who really created the problems have to solve them. The four years we've been running, and the NTP we're presenting for the next twelve years, show that we're turning the trend around. An investment and maintenance programme of more than 1000 billion kr, where growth exceeds government appropriations and does not show a different approach through increased tolls as before. The maturity shall reach down. We're going to have a further cut in the maintenance kit after it's increased for many years. We're going to make changes in the way we run the railway, so we can get four years' contracts in terms of maintenance, which the opposition has voted against. In the first few years, we'll be able to cut completely the downfall of coastal installations on some technical things, and the Coast Guard will continue to work with other parts. We're going to build more roads and railways. We're going to plan more long-term. We're going to expand the projects in size. We're going to simplify the planning processes. We're going to get more for the money. Expert groups are set up in the Vegvesen to participate in projects where there are over-costs. We have implemented rail reforms that will save billions of dollars, and we have set up New Roads, which also outlines a cost reduction of 20 pst. Ergo: When I hear the Labour Party discuss in this room, it seems that they have not got what has actually happened, that they are still living in 2013, when they had to leave the government offices, and believe that all the problems that then existed still persist. We've actually done a job. We have done a job on the railways to bring together responsibilities – to get significant cost cuts and to make better use of resources and provide better services. We have made changes within the Coastal Works by taking them better into the Ministry of Transport rather than leaving them on the outside. We've got a port strategy, we're working on los reform, and we've come forward with a big hit on safety at sea. All of this also shows the results of the national transport plan. Then I hear criticism in this debate that we have not given enough priority to the coast. Well, I remind you that we have allocated billions more to coastal installations, to ports and fairways, now than when the red-green government crashed. Maybe the red-green parties think we should have surpassed them even more than what we've done, but it's an increase, not a reduction. The same applies to bicycle routes: I record that someone claims that there is not enough money on bicycles. Well, we've increased the budgets by 70 pst. in our government period, and we're going to increase them further by almost 50 pst. the next 12 years. It bears witness to a bet on a bicycle. And even if one in opposition thinks that one suddenly has a lot more money: comparing one to what one delivered himself, it was much less. On the road safety side, we see that increased maintenance, more new projects and more road safety measures deliver results. 2017 is drawing to be the year with the lowest number of traffic fatalities since World War II. It's not a job that's finished, it's a job that has to go on all the time, but through groceries, through actions, through cooperation, through Barna's transport plan and through increased control of vehicle trains, we show a lot of different approaches to doing something about this. Technology and digitisation are going to change the way we work, the way we use vehicles, the way we plan everyday life, because there's more information leading to, to passengers, etc. I think that's what's going to be left as the greatest change in our society when we get to 2030. I record that the Workers' Party and the Center Party believe that the market cannot handle the development of digitisation or the expansion of fibre or add money to it. I just remind you that just a week ago we introduced new rules in the digging regulations in order to be able to build infrastructure for telecommunications. Telenor said they could cut 20-25 pst. in costs. It's about 2 billion. kr in the costs saved. That's four times more than the Workers' Party is going to use for subsidising the same thing. Then I am not ashamed at all. I believe that it is actually better to get entrepreneurs to invest than to take tax money and subsidize a higher cost level. Now it's 8 billion. kr more on the railway. It's another record bet. The cities get $66 billion. kr in the national transport plan. I think it is very good that the party leader of the Workers' Party is now going to take the floor as the next person in the debate and probably talk about this. But I remember that the three times the party leader of the Workers' Party has been in government, the answer has been roughly zero dollars for the same purposes. In Hordaland, we see that the City Council of the Workers Party complains that because they have been so underfunded in the last ten years, it is now time that they get 70 pst. Well, who was it that crashed in the period they're comparing to? Yes, they are the ones who are now suddenly promising 70 pst. So now you're going to have $66 billion. kr for the purpose. It's a triangulation of the reward scheme in our four-year period compared to the previous four-year period. I believe that this is a basis for believing in what is stated in the national transport plan. Making an offer – as party leader Gahr Støre said on Dagsrevyen, that if you get more efficiency in the projects, 10 pst. the costs of building the roads are borne by the State budget. A magic wand that makes Harry Potter jealous, I would like to have, to think that you can create a national transport plan that only grants 10 pst. of what you promise is not credible. And then the whole point of the National Transport Plan is to be able to make a plan that the Storting is behind, and that the floors can work on to implement. If everything is equally important, everything is in the blue and nothing really is funded, it doesn't help to call it a plan, because everything has to be worked on from day to day. Having a wish list doesn't have much effect. Then to say that here one should streamline things – I challenge party leader Gahr Støre in his post to say what efficiency measures the Labour Party has that this government has not already started. Because we're going to connect road and tunnel projects, we've implemented the digital tools that we know are available on the market, we've started New Roads, and there's changes in both Bane NOR and Vegvesenet. Show me the measures that one does elsewhere in the world that we haven't yet done, and I'm more than willing to listen. But believing that a sudden just has to conjure up efficiency without probating it is not credible. It must be possible to expect more of the largest opposition party in the country. We have spent time – and one also sees it in the national transport plan – on using the bureaucracy we have to implement things and not just sit and plan. To the representative Tung: The office crative box was twice as large under the Workers' Party as it is now. There are fewer employees in Vegvesen and New Roads at the end of the year than at the beginning of the year. So we're going to show our results. Railway consultancy was twice as high under the Workers' Party as it is now. It shows that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1299	I think I'll start by quoting the Council of State. It is 'a bit strange' that even in his last debate in the Grand Council of State during this period he is unable to look forward, but is most concerned about looking in the rearview mirror and telling about everything that is bad and difficult, and that it is because of the Workers' Party. In the previous period, the Progress Party was extremely concerned about protecting taxpayers' money, and wrote in the setting of the current National Transport Plan: «In the case of unprofitable projects, care must be taken not to waste taxpayers' money.» [[...]] When Ketil Solvik-Olsen sent guideline 2 to the departments to plan this national transport plan, the requirement was that there should be a total socio-economic benefit for all the frameworks. The proposal from Ketil Solvik-Olsen has a negative value of 179 billion. kr. What happened? Why doesn't the Council of State deliver the same as he requires the agencies to deliver to him?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1309	We have a forward-looking NTP. So when the representative Sivertsen asks what the vision is, what we want to do in the future, it's obvious that he hasn't even opened the document National Transport Plan, because there's a lot of hundreds of pages on this. It's a little strange to have that entrance to a debate. But it is true that I have taken over what I have heard from the Labour Party in this debate, and I answer it. I think that's natural in an article. I point out that we have received a lot of criticism from the Workers' Party, allegations of red tape. Then I reply to the representative, Tung, that that is not right. I correspond to the representative Eidsvoll Holmås that it is not correct, what he claims about bicycle routes. I correspond to the representative Hansson that it is given more to railway operations than the impression is given. It is a bit strange to get criticism from the Workers' Party that there are not enough priorities in the National Transport Plan, while the Workers' Party has not removed a single project but added more than 20 projects in addition. In this case, the socio-economic profitability will be even worse. [[President clubs]] Then I really hope that Sivertsen will address the following: When will the Workers' Party have an alternative that they think will solve the problems? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1315	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1320	As it says in these line changes, it is ‘a little strange’ that the Council of State is trying to criticise us for it, when he himself presents a plan where he writes that twenty projects are not fully funded. When we figure out what it's going to cost to fully finance them, it's going to cost 200 billion. kr, and it shall take place once in the 2030s. Governments do not respond to the question of socio-economic benefits. One way to raise the socio-economic benefits is to reduce costs. The Council of State has been very concerned about the opposition, but on its guard he is unable to deliver. He himself writes in the message that on his watch is the average cost increase on railway projects 30 pst. The average increase in road projects is 40 pst. The answer is that a few days ago he sent out a press release that he has set up an expert group to look at the increase in costs and project management on the way. Why does it only happen now? Why didn't this happen four years ago? Why doesn't it happen on the railway? Why does it just happen on the way? When are we going to see the results of the policy he stands for?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1327	Firstly, the Labour Party has criticized us for many things that they believe are not good enough. The question is, what is the Labour Party's alternative, which would make it better? There's nothing in what Sivertsen criticizes me for, for which they have an alternative that would do this better. All the projects he believes are socially unprofitable, retain the Workers' Party, but add even more. The main answer here is that the only working party has come to realize that this government has done is to set up an expert committee in the Vegvesen. The whole reform of New Roads is precisely to cut costs. And we see the results. In his last press release, New Roads said that there is in general 20 pst. Cut, cut, That's 30 billion. kr saved. The whole of the railway reform, which the Workers' Party has spent a lot of time criticising, obviously they have not understood also about cutting costs. The cost estimates we get indicate that we can save billions of dollars. After sitting in opposition for eight years and seeing that the Workers' Party has not done anything about the problems, we have delivered. We did not get the results in 2014, but we are starting to see the results in 2016-2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1332	I'm glad the Council of State is drawing up New Roads. When he says they should save 20 p.m., and refers to a press release from the company, it is okay. But that's not what's in the national transport plan. No changes have been made to the New Roads framework. There is not the large billion you have to save on the portfolio that you actually have made visible. I hear that the Council of State refers to the railway reform and that a great deal of money has to be saved. So far there is a significant cost of conversion, because reforms cost money – that's natural, everyone knows it. But still, the government can't see how many billions to save. We also had this debate in connection with the 2017 state budget. Then I challenged the Council of State. It was then not possible to answer that question. But now I have heard both the Council of State, the representative of Astrup and other representatives of the government parties and the supporting parties in Stortinget argue that this is the answer. How much will we save on the railway reform during the planning period for which the Council of State has now submitted a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1339	This question I think was excellent, because it shows the dividing lines. It's true that we haven't been able to input the cost savings we think are coming, because we can't bet it with two lines below – while the Workers' Party is cutting 90 pst. on the cost side with a magic layer and insert it as if it were now to be implemented. A 50-billion-dollar project. kr is financed by 5 billion. kr. It's totally unprofessional. I am quite certain that the previous party leader in the representative Sivertsen's party had not allowed it. That's not how you can control the country. Through New Roads, we've probably cut 20 pst. in costs. We have already seen from the project contracts that have been concluded, that it has been awarded – half a billion kroner on Arendal–Tvedestrand, and last but not least on Colomen–Moelv you can see 2 billion. DKK in cost cut, of which 400 million. kr only on the operating organisation. So we see the results, but the Labour Party has been against all of this. If the representative Støre can use his post to say which grip the Workers' Party will do as this government has not done, I will note diligently, but so far my sphere has been lying unused.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1344	In the previous election campaign, the state council often said that now it's going to end building piece by piece and division, now we're going to build coherently. But when we read the NTP, we see that there's still a lot missing on it – the E6 through the Gudbrand valley, the Nordland and Trendelag, the E16 in Oppland and Hordaland. Why is the Progress Party no longer concerned with its requirements for continuous development?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1349	We are, and it comes out in the national transport plan. We can't build all the roads in 12 years, but in many places we do this, so I hope the Center Party can take notes. In the national transport plan available, there will be a continuous motorway from Ørje to Kristiansand. We're going to build that on 12 years. It's consistent. Former governments have spent more than 25 years just getting through Eastfold, not even coming to E6. There's a difference. E39 between Stavanger and Kristiansand: If we had used the pace that previous governments have used to build the entire stretch, we would have come to Kristiansand in 2614. We have to get there in 2030. We are 585 years before the form. I don't understand why the Central Party comes up with the claim of E6 Helgeland. That's billion to E6 Helgeland. It is to be implemented, E6 Helgeland — both south and north — and we are to go all the way down to the border of Trøndelag. On the project E16 Arna–Voss there were zero kroner from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party – zero kroner. We've added 14.5 billion. kr. That's because we're going to build it, and we're going to build all the way to Voss.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1362	I am reacting to the questions of the Labour Party representative, Eirik Sivertsen, especially when we now have the efforts of the times on an NTP, which has never had a larger framework. The percentage that goes to the railway is 45 pst. of the investment costs and 35 pst. of the total. There is a historical commitment to collective, bicycle, road and also to the whole infrastructure. At the same time, we know – and here the press can do the work itself – what under-cover the Workers' Party has on its alternative budget. I think the estimate available here now is a voltage between 120 and 160 billion. kr., if it is true. The Council of State may, if appropriate, explain it. My question to the Council of State is: If, contrary to assumption, there would be a change of government, what is really threatened about the NTP – if the majority would then be made up of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Green Party? What are the voters at risk for the NTP, if that is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1369	I believe that the credibility of a person's promise can also be read from what the person actually delivered when he crashed himself. For eight years, the average growth in NTP allocations was over 2 billion. kr. Under today's government, it's about 4 billion. kr – i.e. twice as high. It is not credible when the Workers' Party will suddenly produce an NTP growth of between 5-6 and 7 billion. kr in the year for 12 years in a stretch. So it's two, three, almost four times more than they've ever delivered themselves. During the Workers' Party, the roads have largely expired every year. The railway has expired. The total decay doubled over the eight years of the red-green crash. The fact that they are now going to prioritize it is not credible. But the main problem is that you have an NTP where the Labour Party on the one hand says we're already using 100 billion. kr too much from the oil fund this year, and then it is believed that the scope of action in the perspective communication suggests that we spend too much money in the NTP provided by the majority. So you add 150 billion. kr, plus-minus, in non-binding promises... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1376	The President would remind the representative that replies should be addressed to the statements of the Council of State, not to the comments of other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1381	The Council of State represents a lot of climate negators, and they have succeeded in getting the Left to agree that the transport plan should not set a national climate target for the transport sector until 2030, as clearly indicated by the suspension. It is therefore the case that the Council of State in the transport plan presents a good deal of targets that the parties to the centre have achieved in the national transport plan – on a proposal from SV – I have to say quite frankly – that set clear targets when we are only to have zero-emission cars and zero-emission buses. But it's not more than two weeks since the government parties, including the government party, said no to have a plan to achieve the same goals that the government has set. The third is motorway expansion — the development of the times, both expensive and unprofitable projects. Does the Council of State agree that if we are to achieve the objective of reducing traffic, are we not doing so by building motorways around the cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1391	Firstly, both SV, the Green Party and some other impressions that the only motorways to be built are largely urban. Well, you have to build a motorway between Stavanger and Kristiansand, not around Stavanger or Kristiansand. You don't have to build a highway around Oslo. You have to build a highway for Hamar. You have to build a highway for Lillehammer. It is necessary to build such a way that people who currently have goods transport, craft services, etc. are better off. This is not least about linking the country together. I asked the representative Eidsvoll Holmås to start dealing with the fact, for example. that the climate communication that was just presented – we refer to the NTP climate communication – says that there is a work target of 35-40 pst. Cut, cut, If you want to look at what we're doing in NTP, you can look up page 223. It says a lot of things are happening, and we say that if you get a «disruptive scenario» within technology – and I believe that wholeheartedly – you want a cut in emissions of 60 pst. compared to 2005 – 60 pst. Cut without taxing the cars and prohibiting the cars... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1398	The cord shift is over. Those who take the floor below shall have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1405	It's almost as a party leader in the Workers' Party, when you think about that we can form such a source of inspiration, anger, aggression and explanation of all that's bad and bad. Even when speakers from other parties are up in the pulpit, Solvik-Olsen talks about the Workers' Party. When he describes his own efforts as Minister of Transport – and he has worked hard – it would be thought that there were virtually no cars on the roads or trains on the rails in Norway in the earlier period, and that there was no sharp increase in transport investment and investment in trains in our time. I'm really proud to be called Harry Potter – he's one of my heroes – but then at the same time I'm going to appoint the Council of State of Humles, the Vice-Chancellor of Harry Potter, who taught him about magic magic wand. I will never get to his level, for lay not the Advance Party, in its alternative NTP in 2013, 454 billion. over what was adopted? I don't even think a magic wand could deliver it. If you want a textbook in surrender policy and calculate efficiency that is not documented, I say: Just read! The Workers' Party has submitted its proposal to the National Transport Plan. It is based on a lot of figures from the government, and the representations from the government council don't get any better from his repetitions. What we have said is that it should open up opportunities, through efficiency, by building smarter in the next period, for which the Council of State is a wholehearted spokesman – it may well happen that there may be breakthroughs in this area in ways other than what the Council of State has seen – we outline a number of projects that we can then expect to accelerate and implement. The budgets of the national transport plan are adopted year after year, as far as possible, and we have outlined the possibilities if they open. This means that we can also implement things from the previous transport plan that this government has chosen to push aside. The council said that the Workers' Party could not express itself in this matter if they did not have a detailed recipe for what they would do differently. Well, from our point of view, we have outlined in the transport plan and in the submissions here several areas where we believe that we can do things in other ways – review of standards in the sector and standard choices on individual projects. There does not have to be four fields and 110 km/h wherever new construction is to be built. And there are opportunities for savings. We also believe that there will be great opportunities for savings in digitisation. They must be documented, but the industry itself points to a great potential. Other countries do, and we have to learn from other countries. We need closer cooperation between the transport modes, the construction sector and research institutions. And we need to develop the state's contract strategies, so that we get the best possible price for the state. During the Council of State's own period, the prices of projects on the road have increased by 30 pst. and within the road by 40 pst. So full control of cost developments cannot, of course, be said by this Council of States to have. I'll give the Council of State right in one thing. It is that there are going to be surprises in this field in the years to come, because there are things happening within technology that are going to make us probably look back at this debate in 2017 with the wonder that history's rapid changes always give: Think of changes that made us think again in this way! This means that the government that the Workers' Party looks forward to leading will have a keen look at how we need to adjust and adapt our visions in transport – what can be transported, what must be transported, and how it should be transported – in the years to come. The possibilities that it gives us, and that flexibility we also have to have with us. Finally, I would like to say that for the Labour Party, the proposal we have presented is ambitious, serious and responsible. It is more about forward-looking climate solutions in the big cities, more about racial protection and people's security, such as full funding of Arna–Stanghelle in Hordaland, and more about coastal action and ports. The fact that we have introduced digitisation and broadband as a separate point in the transport plan is an expression of the shift that is going to come in this sector in the years to come, and that we are prepared for it. The lack of proposals for coastal measures and ports is reflected in the government’s plan. We've done something about it. It is a great strategic effort for the Workers' Party, in line with the North Region bet, and now sea bets, which must become this country's new, large bet area in the years to come. The working party does not get a majority for these proposals now, but even until the autumn, voters have the opportunity to improve the transport plan – and we are ready for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1428	First of all, I must say that it is gratifying to know that Harry Potter is also busy with transportation. It creates new opportunities. This is a big day. After almost four years in the Transport and Communications Committee, many trips and meetings with good input to projects and policies, many meetings with engaged people burning for their project, and good recordings from many organisations, we have come to the day when we will adopt the National Transport Plan for the period 2018-2029. We can do that with pride, because it's a good plan for the whole country. During this major period, the appropriations for transport have increased by more than 50 pst. We have implemented several important reforms and taken action to reduce the planning time. And we've started the reduction of the maintenance run on the road and track. We've given a lot of history to transportation, and every penny is used smarter. In NTP 2018-2029, we continue this effort. It is not possible for me to mention all parts of the plan in five minutes, so I will focus on some areas. My county, like the rest of our coast, is divided into fjords and mountains. It illustrates some of the complexity and challenges we have in Society Norway. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we in this NTP maintain the commitment to the free E39. In addition to Rogfast, which is approaching launch, both Hordfast and Møreaksen are priority projects. These are projects that will help to build strong value-creating regions in the West. For example, when the distance between Molde and Ålesund is less than one hour, it will do something about the attractiveness of the whole region. Together with Hafast, this will provide the basis for new growth and value creation in an already strong international industrial environment. But I'm somewhat concerned about the opposition. The centre party is proposing to cut Hordfast's funds by 4 billion. kr. The Swedish Environment Party and the Greens are not interested in building free E39 at all, but will give more priority to rail. The Labour Party promises more to everything, without sufficient funding. It seems that there is only one safe route to the ferry-free E39, and it is to allow the four cooperation parties to implement this national transport plan. Over several decades, the maintenance seat drivage has increased. The Working Party and the Centre have allowed this development to continue. During this ageing period, the trend is reversed and the maturity has decreased both on the road and on the track. Continued work is carried out in the national transport plan and reduces the maturity by one third over the 12-year period. National transport plan is a massive effort on road projects across the country, both for the construction of the State Road Service and for the construction of the New Veier AS. Over many years, we have seen that road construction costs have increased. It has therefore been important to challenge established forms of work. How can we increase the pace of innovation and establish better contract and cooperation models, while at the same time standardising where possible and challenging what is good enough quality? New Weier AS is an important contribution in this way. The Labour Party and the Centre have voted against reforms in the transport sector. We believe that it's possible to think new, and we already see that it works. Roads are being built both smarter and faster. For the four cooperation parties, it is important to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport as an environmentally friendly and good alternative to long-distance transport. Maritime transport is already a major part of the transport work and NTP facilitates the further transport of goods from road to sea: 2 billion. kr in port grants for more efficient and environmentally friendly ports One, seven, bn. kr in an incentive scheme for the transfer of goods 0.9 B.C.E. kr for tax reductions This is in addition to other schemes, such as: through Enova. This will have an effect. The ferries are an important part of our transport network and are crucial for connecting the coast. Many are facing a tender renewal in the next few years, and the fact that we are now demanding low- and zero-emission solutions will mean a significant replacement of old materials, increased capacity and environmentally friendly ferries. It is also an area where our yards and equipment suppliers can take a leading role and make environmental requirements a business opportunity. In my region there are several companies that can handle such a leadership trough, and that are already well-running – Fischerstrand Verft, who develops hydrogen ferries, shipyards that produce electric ferries, equipment suppliers that contribute to innovation and new environmental technologies. It makes me optimistic. There are many in my country who are following this debate, not only because of the national transport plan, but also because we are going to adopt the toll proposition for the North Island Road. It is a holiday relief project that relieves two ferry connections and provides mainland connections to the North Islands. Toll financing and local contributions form an important part of the total funding, but the most important of all is the holiday relief scheme provided by this government, which is essential for such projects to be implemented. The North Island Road is the first major holiday relief project after the scheme has been put in place, and will be a demonstration of the enormous importance of this scheme for similar projects along the coast. I will end by congratulating the inhabitants of the North Island on the day and not least the inhabitants of Norway on a good national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1470	There's been a lot of fairy tale here, both with Humles loops and with Potter – we just need Hermine here. Then I see that the prince with the court has left the hall – I should have liked to have shown them a comment about the invasion. Because there's something the Workers' Party doesn't have in its proposal, it's containment for all the projects. The Progress Party has had it, we've had it for every kilometre. Before I start my post, I want to take up the proposal that the Progress Party has in one of the many issues that are embedded under the NTP. It's easy to forget, since we're dealing with so many things at once. So to the hard facts. For me, as rapporteur for case No. 12, the development of E39 Kristiansand west–Lwagal west, it is deplorable, but at the same time fantastic: The world ends – as we used to say – on Søgnesletta in Søgne municipality. That's no longer the case. I look at the representative Gruvan, who is sitting in the hall, that he knows the expression from South Africa very well. I want, as I said, to hard facts and not to fairy tales: Who doesn't remember – on the E39, the route that is now going to have four fields – four young people who had been in Kristiansand on a job interview, who had been in McDonald’s, and who died on their way home to Mandal? Who does not remember the family who were on their way from Rogaland to Kristiansand early on a Easter morning – they were supposed to reach the ferry with the family – where it was also dead? Who doesn't remember the pictures in the newscasts of 150 trailers that were in line on an E39 that didn't have a roundabout, or – earlier – an E39 where one had to drive with a cab via E18 to deliver food during the night, because people had to stay overnight in the cars? Who does not remember that snow and ice that hung from buildings had to be shot down with hail because it was dangerous to travel and there was no other way to solve it? This is the way we are now going to build, and New Roads, the baby of the Advancement Party, who has now grown up, is responsible for it. Smarter planning, simpler regulation, past involvement of those on the road, state plans – overall and not least with operational responsibility for 20 years after completion. But one also has the uncertainty about the Center Party and the Workers' Party, which in very many areas will reverse our reforms – say no to perhaps 30 billion. kr in savings here, no to 20 pst. savings there, no to a much faster expansion – and that, as I clearly remember, builds up so much that in 2006–2007 it was built almost 3 kilometres by a stretch that is now no longer in use. That's not how we want to spend the money. This is my last post from this pulpit. When I look back at the twelve years of the Stortinget, both in the Church, Education and Research Committee, in the Justice Committee and now in the Transport Committee, there are some red threads. One of the red threads is what we have today in the NTP, communication. Then I think about communication via fiber, via other technology, via cyberspace, etc. – but also on communication between colleagues, between representatives in this Chamber. It's hard to stand here. I believe that the representatives who are sitting here, who are going to continue, should set goals, and one should never give up – because then one comes to port. I started my political activity with the E39, for which I am now the case rapporteur, by ensuring a four-field path – which the Progress Party was the only party that fought for – between Kristiansand and Stavanger. Now we're here, and it becomes a reality. Most of the parties fully agree with the Progress Party, although there was a great deal of resistance when I started at Stortinget in 2005, towards such a project. Now we're here -- the ring's over. I just want to say a thousand thanks to the Stortinget and to all good colleagues for twelve amazing years – thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1491	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1496	The representative Åse Michaelsen can give us all the glimpses of hope in the distance, if not so long. The sea and the coast have for hundreds of years prega Norway's history, culture and economy. The sea and the coast will also shape our country in the future. Before fisheries and aquaculture, shipping and maritime industries, petroleum and renewable energy, there is a high potential for future value creation and profitable jobs, which is once again a strength to secure coastal busses. In several fields, the government has followed up the government of Stoltenberg II's current NTP when it comes to government licensing, but in the coastal area, the follow-up rate after these years is only 86 pst. The Labour Party wants more investment on the coast for years to come, and in our alternative we have an increase in the government of about 5 billion. kr during the planning period, and most of this comes in the first six-year period. In general, the funds are to be used to advance the realization of port and fairway measures, which were not intended by the government to grant government licenses until after 2024. For as he said, the trawler from Bømlo: «Shall we lie down and drive out on the fjord then, for six to seven years, before we get that molo and can have a safe harbor?» What is all the more disturbing about the government’s NTP proposal, which does not give state concessions until after 2024, is that the majority of the population have recently agreed that responsibility for the fishing ports should be transferred to the new regions from 2020. The working party is to ensure that fishing ports remain a State responsibility, and our approach ensures that important projects for employment and business are prioritised. And when the majority point out in their comments that municipalities and county councils can advance port and fairway actions, I don't think there are so many of the municipalities that want finances to do so. It is such that many of the vessels used in our fishing fleet have been larger, and not least they have been deeper in the sea. This means that many of the established fishing ports are not usable and safe enough for a modern fishing fleet. Many of the port and fairway measures that the Labour Party will have in our arrangement will have advanced from the second planning period to the first period, between 2018 and 2023, are naturally enough in the northern parts of our country, but the list of measures goes along the entire coast – from east to east in Finnmark and eastfold. Intensification, molo construction and re-marking are all-round measures proposed and published by the Swedish Coastal Agency. And so it is that both expansion and land-exploitation in order to obtain molo material also create new ground on the ground in these ports, which is once again a prerequisite for bringing new marine and maritime nourishment, which then gives work to more people. For several decades now, fishing industries have been an important part of the recruitment base for the growing petromaritime industries. Oil age is far from over, but we still see that the sector is experiencing a decline in employment along much of the coast. There is now much to suggest that fisheries and fisheries-related industries are on the rise again, and that is to make it possible for this growth to come over the next few years. This is an active industrial policy and will provide hard-to-reach jobs along the coast, where we can talk to some extent that now it is ‘payback-time’ that some of those that are no longer available in oil industries can now get work in fisheries and fisheries-related activities. As an example of what the Workers' Party will be exploring of fairies, I will mention the deepening of the seals to the Port of Florø, which will allow the yard there to get the large, deep-seated rigs that need overhaul. The working party will also prioritise significant resources for strengthening strategic ports, new technologies, etc. during the planning period. strong efforts for electrification and zero emissions in the ferry fleet and for measures to strengthen freight transport from road to sea. It is important that we ensure that the fantastic infrastructure that this country has been given free of charge is organised and thus used more actively to transport our goods – on a finished salty, road-safe transport year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1526	The government implements the time-lag on road, rail and public transport. In addition, the existing NTP is overfilled after four years at the rudder. We made a 20-billion-dollar election. kr more, 2 brd. kr a year, and we have paid 10 billion. kr more and 15 brd. a four-year increase in efficiency. However, we should have wished that a number of projects had been built yesterday: the Vikabergellet, Strynefjellet, Romarheimsdalen, E39, E134, rv. 7, E16 Voss and also completed File Mountain. But of all of us in this room, the Labour Party and the Center Party are in spite of all of those who have had the most chance to show how infrastructure can be built quickly and efficiently. After eight years of gigantic maintenance and missing start-up of new, long-lasting infrastructure measures – can we, from the other party, media and voters, trust that everything will come first, without being shown how to do it? Much of the lifting is to be achieved through efficiency improvement, but what kind of efficiency improvement? I have not recorded any new, concrete example from the Labour Party of how this is to be done, and our efficiency measures, which already show good results, are to be removed. If the Labour Party is given the chance – is this by principle? In addition to large-scale road, rail and public transport, this government demonstrates the ability to see the opportunities that technology and digitisation could provide. With large stakes on ITS and an own echo-plane with an investment level of 10.7 billion. Last year the government will ensure a holistic and efficient transport network for digital communications as well. The intention of NTP has never been a list of dreams and good intentions. NTP is supposed to be a plan that ensures long-termity and efficiency, too, well to mark if it's used as original thinking, and not under the grave, as the Labour Party now does by using the plan as an electoral campaign stunt. If everything is to come first without showing how, it can be difficult to perceive as something other than an empty promise. The Central Party held the Minister for Transport from 2005 to 2013. Before, it was largely the Labour Party that had this post. But one couldn't start planning new roads and paths on, for example. E16 Arna–Voss, although the challenges were well-known. The conclusion about the trasé was not understood in time, and zero kroner were inside the previous NTP. This government is actually the first to launch a new project on this stretch, the K5 option with a new path and path, and we're plotting to invest 15 billion. kr during the planning period. Don't know - plan periods didn't matter that much before? For example, E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal was a priority in the NTP in both the first and second periods of the Labour Party, but not seen in progress before the Right and Advance Party took over in 2013. We take the goal of continuing this work, as we have done these four years, where we overfill NTP. And we're also going to do that with the upcoming NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1545	The Workers' Party has provided an ambitious, serious and responsible alternative to the Government's national transport plan. Our option will provide more climate-friendly transport. Safe, good and efficient transport will ensure growth, profitable jobs and housing across the country. We make a clear prioritisation of the coast and collective and climate action, secure our roads and say that everyone should have access to high-speed networks. It offers equivalent opportunities across the country — a country where everyone is to be involved in both the value creation and the value-sharing process. It is a fact that good digital infrastructure has become at least as important as roads, railways and other basic infrastructure. Then, too, the digital infrastructure must be for everyone, all over the country. We are today at full speed into a time of greater digital differences. It's unacceptable. The copper wire was going into everyone's home, so everyone got a phone call. Now is the time to ensure all access to high-speed networks. It is one of the main promises of the Workers Party in this national transport plan. And why is that? Well, because access to high-speed networks today is equally crucial for school students, for old and new businesses and to ensure good and necessary health care across the country. The Fremskritsparte government has had snail speed in this area and left it to a market that will not take responsibility for all parts of our country. The working party has higher ambitions for digital Norway, because what is a fact is that the future is digital. What can be digitized will be digitized. We are facing a revolution that will fundamentally change our society. Machines and artificial intelligence are increasingly able to carry out tasks that people have until now been alone in. If we work today, raining as sure, will be lost. The consequences of replacing the horse with the car were not just a change in means of transport, the number of kilometres per hour or how often you visited Grandma. It actually changed our whole society. Digitalisation and autonomous vehicles could lead to increased mobility, increased road safety, lower emissions and better resource use, but it depends on political governance and positive incentives – a governance of the Workers' Party wants to take. Different vehicle sharing solutions will be able to free up road and parking areas and reduce our emissions while increasing mobility. Collective transport can become much more accessible and efficient, so that more people actually choose this in front of the private car in the garage. Router says they're going to be a data company over a public society. The Labour Party welcomes this development. Together with the 70 pst of the Workers' Party. State funding for large collective efforts can enable public transport to play a completely different role in a few years' time, both climate and – not least – transport. As politicians, we should also be honest that digitisation, automation and technological quantum leaps can affect the need to invest in road and freight terminals in the future. If digitisation can help reduce investment needs, so that we can do things in a smarter way, we need to take a closer look at it. Finally, digitalisation creates new, great opportunities for Norwegian business as well. Industry can be moved home and new technology companies can grow. Digitalisation and new technologies will be a crucial driver of future growth. The Workers' Party wants the technology shift we're facing to benefit the community in the form of new future jobs, not least value creation and value-sharing, both across the country and between us as human beings. For Norway, with our high pay level, the use of modern and forward-looking technology is the key to being able to compete internationally. That is why the Labour Party will make Norway the world leader in this area. That's why we're taking this into account as an important carrier in the national transport plan. The future is digital – then the country’s main infrastructure plan should also be.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1573	The national transport plan is intended to be an important strategy document, to which it attaches great stress. The Transport and Communications Committee has spent time visiting all the counties of the country, including Oslo, to face the challenges facing the states. In addition, in the Right we have visited our politicians in the same states, and there have been hearings and visits here at the house. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has contributed to this process. Although the national transport plan 2018–2029 has an economic framework of unimaginable 1 064 billion. kr, has there been a tough priority job ahead of the presentation of the plan: which projects should be included, which ones should be put on hold? Which projects will enter the first period, which will enter the second period? There's a lot to enjoy in this NTP, not least for a railway policy spokesman. intercity has, as a concept, been expanded in this NTP, from being a triangle to becoming a polygon. The Ringerix Railway has evolved from being a rather modest project in the previous NTP to becoming one of its main elements. Together with E16 Sandvika–Hønefoss, the cost estimate is at the base of 30 billion. kr. The Eastern Line on the Eastfold Railway has also become a priority project, both with investment in ERTMS and with a high-traffic link to Follobanen. The third element is a service of new train tunnel through Oslo. The sum total is understandable that the expansion of the intercity triangle will be completed until Lillehammer, Halden and Skien some years later, but with a higher quality and capacity. The railway effort is not just about the populations of the East. The train has an important role as a backbone in passenger transport in and out of the major cities of Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. In addition, electrification of Tronderbanen and Meråkerbanen and the Hamar-Elverum-Kongswinger railway is included. The freight package is a long-term bet. 18 B.C.E. kr shall include, inter alia: contribute to investments at Alnabru and new freight terminal in Trondheim. Furthermore, the freight terminal at Kongswinger shall be further developed in order to obtain more goods from road to road. It is rather alarming that the Workers' Party in its alternative NTP – which neither stays within a well-known economic framework nor is it able to prioritise what is going to happen, and what is going to happen – cuts 2 billion. kr in the goods package. Understand the one who can. Prop. 86 for 2016–2017, Oslopackak 3, is one of the issues we are dealing with here, for which I have been the case rapporteur. Oslopackakt 3 is an important strategic document for the development of Oslo and Akershus. The plan stems from a local political agreement between the key political parties in 2006. In time it has been revised and the time horizon has expanded from 2026 to 2032 and now 2036. It is the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Center Party that have made up the root of the political unity. In 2012, a thorough review of Oslopackakt3 was carried out both administratively and politically. The administrative analysis showed that it was only 27 p.m. of the drivers related to Oslopackakt 3 who paid tolls. This is one of the problems that has been addressed in this package. By increasing the number of toll stations, more are going to pay the value. The second element reached agreement in 2012 was that the projects E18 West Corridor and E6 Manglerudtunnel could not be resolved within the framework of Oslopackak 3. One of the problems is that all projects built under the responsibility of the package have to be paid down during the construction period. Building loans are raised to ensure rational progress, but all loans shall be disbursed during the 20-year period. It was agreed that the E18 West Corridor and the Manglerud Tunnel would be built as usual road projects – first build, then pay afterwards. The projects were to receive a grant from Oslopackak 3 equivalent to that foreseen in 2006. This is mentioned both in the National Transport Plan 2014–2023 and in Prop. 1 for 2012–2013 — the State budget for 2013 — without any decision being taken. That's what I'm doing. The Central Element of Prop. 86, Oslopackak 3 is nevertheless the charging policy. It now facilitates both time-differentiated rates and environmental taxes. Agreement has been reached between the parties on this matter. The proposal contains several measures that could trigger a State grant of 50 pst. This applies to Fornebubanen, a new T-Bahn tunnel through Oslo Centre, track solution at Lower Romerike – Ahusbanen – and a new signalling and securing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1596	We're going to spend over 1000 billion, including tolls. kr for transportation over the next 12 years. Of course, there is a lot of good in the national transport plan – a lot of good – and it should just be missing. So here we're in the hall somewhat disagreed in the direction ahead, something disagreed with the bets and also disagreed with some individual projects. And it's probably not that strange when we're going to spend so much money in one field. The four cooperating parties are very pleased with themselves today, yes, so pleased that Røres Toril Eidsheim in the change of lines asked questions to Left's Abid Q. Raja, not about Left's policy, but about Labour Party policy. And the representative Raja asked the Minister of Transport, not the Minister of Transport's policy, but the Labour Party's policy at the same time. It is at all quite so sweet to hear how the four cooperating parties are talking today. I have to say I am somewhat surprised at the outcome of the government parties against the Workers' Party and our approach in the National Transport Plan. The working party re-prioritizes approx. 50 B.C.E. kr of 12 years. I remember the NTP treatment four years ago. Then the Progress Party was going to spend 450 billion. kr more than 10 years – 45 brd. kr per year. I was about to say, where is Bård Hoksrud today? Otherwise, I understand that the figures of the government parties have problems with the Labour Party proposal because there are too few tables. If there are no major problems, this will be quite a good thing. And if it's hard to read the setting, we can probably read our suggestions on the audiobook, then more people can bring it with them. Now we have to calm down. Governments must breathe with their stomachs and make smiles – he is probably the world's luckiest Minister of Transport, who has a national transport plan with such an economic framework. It is not certain that the current Minister for Transport will be given the task of implementing the national transport plan we are adopting today. It's the voters who are going to decide in September, but in any case, we're going to spend a lot of money on transportation in the years that come. And that's good. But even if we do, no one has money for everything – not the government, not the supporting parties, not the opposition. But then we should at least finish what we've started. Four years ago, when we dealt with the National Transport Plan, the Stortinget said that the ambition was to build internal intercity by 2024 and external intercity by 2030. Now the majority goes back on that ambition, it's not very offensive. The working party says that the goal still has to be to have double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden and Skien by 2030, and that the Ringerix Railway is to be built as intended. And then we're going to have to stop building all of a sudden. Unfortunately, this government does not end with it. I will mention two examples: projects E16 in Akershus and Hedmark and E6 in Gudbrandsdalen are now being pushed many years ahead. In these days it is 20 years since Stortinget decided to build a motorway between Klöfta and Kongswinger. The road is built at every end, from Klöfta to Nybakk and from Kongswinger to Slomarka, but it remains 33 km. It is incomprehensible that the government and the support parties are now postponing this and will not complete the road. It is also incomprehensible that the majority is now stopping the E6 expansion in the Gudbrand valley, where phase 1 between Ringebu and Otta is being developed – a project adopted by the Stortinget – while phase 2 of the same project is being postponed for many years. Thus, a road project remains unconstructed, as the Stortinget assumed when the road project was adopted in Stortinget, because the government and the supporting parties are now postponing it for many years. We shouldn't build the country like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1612	The working party has provided an ambitious, serious and responsible alternative to the national transport plan, which can contribute to more climate-friendly transport, and, in particular, perhaps the most important thing: jobs across the country. In today's debate, the government parties are trying to doubt and say that the voters do not know what they get with our proposals. Yes, they do. We have been clear on what we want to prioritise, and just as in the proposal for a new NTP, some of our projects will go beyond this period. As many people have said, it depends on what we get done with the costs. But what's the big difference is that we haven't left the ambitions already today. I have to say that it is very special to sit down and hear the progress party politicians criticise our option, when, as many have said, we have refreshed their options in 2013, when they were to add up to 455 billion. kr. Our alternative priority is, as the previous speaker said, about 50 billion. kr of 12 years. The Labour Party will use the whole country, and then we must also have a political policy that will take care of this. I am thinking, not least, of anti-slip protection, digitisation and what we have heard today about coastal action. For the Workers' Party, the aim is to ensure that all public roads in Norway are safe against slipping. Furthermore, tunnels throughout the road network must be upgraded and secured. It's both about feeling safe when you're walking along the road, and about getting there is going to be good. Therefore, the working party prioritizes to accelerate a series of national road safety measures from the last to the first six-year period, plus an increase in roadside scaffolding. We've added up to 6.5 billion. kr for skim protection, approx. Three billion. of these in the first period. The proposal available here is 24 billion. kr for skim protection. It could have been good, but the problem with that is that the large increase only comes in the last six years. If we are to succeed in digitisation, we must have well-developed high-speed broadband across the country. Today we don't. We've got a digital class distinction, that's what the Workers' Party will do. The government argues that the market alone should arrange high-speed broadband. We have seen that in their budgets, both in 2015 and 2016, when they only proposed 50 million. NOK in grants for this purpose. Only for 2017 is the actual application amount of 589 million. SEK for 142 projects. It's good that we do something about the digging instructions, but it's not enough just to do something about the depth, you have to do something about the length as well. Therefore, the state must take responsibility, set up and provide coverage for everyone throughout the country. Today, as I said, it's a digital class division, the urban strut has a faster network. The last numbers I have from the Department of Transport show that 96 pst. of households in built-in districts have access, while only 37 pst. outside built-in strokes have access. Just as the large community has previously set up to ensure all access to other critical infrastructures, so the large community must also set up high-speed broadband for the whole country. That is why the Workers' Party wants to bring a new area of activity into the transport plan, we want to bring in broadband subsidy schemes and commit the Biggest in the years to come. So we've proposed 6 billion. kr to this pot for the next 12 years – or 500 million. kr on average per year. The government has not given priority to ensuring digital access across the country. It is therefore necessary to intensify the development of full broadband coverage across the country. It is necessary to establish a digital infrastructure plan to ensure high-speed capacity where there is no commercial basis. If we are to succeed in digitisation, create new opportunities for business development and have public services that are the same throughout the country, whether it be school, health or other services, we must facilitate this access. The working party will have good access to digital infrastructure in the districts and prevent a digital class separation between city and country. Unfortunately, we have a government that only points to the market. We also want to take a state responsibility, so that we can get this done. That is why we must have a new government as our priority for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1643	Just to illustrate to the representative Juvik that we believe in digital solutions, I brought the PC up. The debate so far has shed some light on the opposition's alternatives to the national transport plan. We have received some answers, and they should worry more than me. But most striking is the answers we haven't received. The representative Gahr Støre presented the Workers' Party's alternative as serious, ambitious and responsible. I guess it's true when the leader of the Workers' Party needs to stress that his party's alternative is that. But it doesn't help to say that it's a serious and responsible alternative, when you add more promises to the voters than you can put into proposals for your own framework for NTP. The difference between promises and funding sums up to between 120 billion. kr and 160 br. kr. At the same time, we are in the strange situation that the Workers' Party criticises us for spending too much money, they are concerned about the economic space. But that doesn't prevent them from entering a 7 billion frame. kr higher than the government initially. In addition, promises that add up to between 120 billion. kr and 160 br. kr. This is not related. The representative Gahr Støre came right enough with two important clarifications. One is that the total absence of prioritisation by the Workers' Party in the following sentence: ‘should open up opportunities’ Should it open up possibilities – as in the case of a magic wand, it can open up opportunities to bet 160 billion. Extra kroner. All the magicians have a trick, in this case it's a budget line, because this doesn't work out. The representative Myrli says that the Workers' Party re-prioritises 50 billion. kr, but that's not what the Workers' Party is doing. The working party actually re-prioritises between 170 billion. kr and 210 br. kr, mostly in new promises. The problem with the representative Gahr Støre and the representative Myrli is that the NTP promises are made without reservation. In proposal No 10 in the setting, from the Working Party, it says: ‘The size assumes that the four InterCity routes will be completed by 2030’.» It's not to be misunderstood. There is no uncertainty in this proposal. Local representatives have also not interpreted the Workers' Party as such, cf. The Eastfold representatives who were out and promised intercity to Halden in 2030 in the week that passed. Then the question is, how is it to be financed? That is what the representative Myrli, the representative Gahr Støre and the representative Sivertsen said nothing about, and even on direct questions twice to the representative Sivertsen, it was not possible to get an answer on how the Workers' Party should conjure up 25 billion. kr extra to complete the intercity by 2030 on all routes. The second answer we received from the representative Gahr Støre was to look at standard options. There is no interpretation other than that the voters who are now out and expect to have a four-field path, and they can end up with a two-field path if the Workers' Party is given government power. There's no other way to interpret that sentence than just like that. I think the voters will feel bad. Then there has been a good deal of reference to what the then opposition proposed in 2013. I'll let the Progress Party answer for itself, but that's absolutely right, Right promised more money. But then we've been hunting, too. We've overfilled the NTP, the traffic budgets have increased by 50 pst. Since 2013, and there has been a record bet – not only has there been a record bet in terms of more money, but it has also been getting more out of the money. If I'm going to allow myself a little visit to the Progress Party, you could say that the Progress Party at least had a table that went up – and then you might disagree with where the money came from – but it doesn't have the Workers' Party. They don't have a table that goes up, they don't have a plan, they don't actually prioritize, and the voters don't know what they can expect if the Workers' Party comes to power. This is also due to the fact that the crack in the opposition is record-breaking today. SV, for example, will take in 60 billion. kr from trees on roads they have not planned to build, MDG seems to believe that bad roads are good environmental policies, but everyone in this room should recognise that we should cut emissions, it is about new technology, not about bad roads. Most people in the districts of Norway deserve good roads to drive on. It is also tempting – now the time runs out – to say something about broadband. Let me just end by saying that the digging order cuts the cost of adding broadband with 25 pst., and it's a significantly larger contribution than the Workers' Party adds to the same bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1677	It is tempting to get involved in the debate on the financial framework and, not least, the need for cost control in this sector, but it will have to wait until later this afternoon. Oslopackak 3 is a very good agreement for Oslo and Akershus. It is an agreement that has an enormous impact on the climate, on pollution, on the emergence of people and businesses and on urban development in the two states. With this agreement, the parties have now landed the financing of important projects. New centre tunnel for the T-Bahn is lengthened. It gives new inner city areas access to the T-Bahn network, but most importantly it means for all areas around the centre, which now with a new tunnel can take off every six minutes. This is one of the most socio-economically profitable projects in Norway, and together with projects such as Fornebubanen, new T-Bahn signalling and securing facilities, cross-linking in Groruddalen, Oslo's new traction program and not least all the money allocated to the continuous upgrade of tram and T-Bahn, this package is a huge boost for public transport in Oslo. I believe that the new Labour Party-led City Council should be commended for how they have managed to land these projects in a short time, which have been hanging for a very long time. The Workers' Party wants to give up to 70 pst. State funding of the major collective projects, money that can give an even greater boost to public transport. There are both tram lines and T-Bahn lines in Oslo that need funding, and we would like to support increasing the local space for action. Oslopackak 3 is a package that not only makes big investments in public transport, it's an agreement that means a lot to the environment in the city. The professional analyses of the package show that car traffic is going to fall significantly, as is, of course, the pollution. By 2020, greenhouse gas emissions will decrease by 10 pst. in Oslo. We go from 200,000 people who in 2014 lived in what is called the red zone, with high air pollution, to just a few thousand in 2020. It's mildly impressive what the city council here is able to do in a short time. So to what was the biggest battle point in the negotiations last spring – the E18 West Corridor. It is regrettable that the government is making a proposal for a national transport plan that violates the agreement, without taking it up with the contracting parties. If you want to change an agreement, it's natural to address what you want to change and try to negotiate a solution. It's disappointing when you just choose to jump over it. The Oslo packages have been working well for 30 years, so the state should work to support that cooperation. At the same time, it is very strange to see that the right-hand side is now gathering to say that the E18 West Corridor is now to be outside the scope of the Oslopacket 3 Agreement. This road has been part of the negotiations for 30 years. The route from Sandvika to Vøyenanga on E16 is part of Oslopackak 3. The same is fornebubanen and Kolsåsbanen. When you look at the map, it's just weird that this path is going to be a different area of influence. Of course, this isn't just about maps. The Oslo Packages are a common attempt to solve the major transport challenges in Oslo and Akershus, and that's a good idea. But it is a similarly bad idea that the largest project to be implemented should not be part of the negotiations. It is a project that has enormous importance both for traffic and for the economic space in the region. Of course, all the projects have to be seen in the context. Oslo does not want more car traffic into the city. It is essential for the Workers' Party that road traffic does not increase. We will also place the decisive emphasis on the outcome of the local negotiations. It is good to remember that the 2012 agreement limits the maximum cost of the E18 West Corridor. I draw attention to the fact that this is not renegotiated in the revised agreement. The Oslo packages have been good both for the city and for the country. They have funded important projects and provided a basis for both pro-activeness and urban development. In this new package, there is much, much more money for public transport and cycling than it has ever been. It's a line that you should keep going. It is good both for the city and for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1692	Although I have a little poor voice today, I can't let the chance go from me to participate in one of the perhaps the most important debates that the Stortinget has in this period, and I want to start by congratulating Abid Raja, Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Morten Stordalen, Nikolai Astrup and Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen with a long pregnancy, which today results in a successful birth. NTP is a puzzle game, is a huge balancing of conflicting local desires and different priorities of different modes of transport. That is why it is a achievement to agree on such a comprehensive, feasible and economically responsible plan that we are to adopt today. The four cooperation parties have joined forces, negotiated and provided the NTP of the times. 1 billion dollars to transport in the next 12 years will continue the promise made by this government – a plan that binds Norway together from north to south, from east to west, a plan that makes the necessary balances of local interests with national objectives, a plan that combines it to arrive quickly at our climate goals, a plan that rates traditional road and rail development, while at the same time focusing on future technology. This is the bet of the times on the road and the track, and we get to do that by building more and smarter, maintaining better and getting more out of every penny. The problem was that we had too long planning time, too long construction time and too high costs. We organized ourselves old-fashioned, it was built piece by piece and divided, and we got little left for the money that was used. For several decades, the downtime on the road and the track increased because there was too little maintenance. We have reversed maturity to renewal. Traffic emissions have increased every year. Now they go down, but they're still too high. So we're going to prioritize 1 000 billion. kr over the next 12 years of the time on road, railway lines, better maintenance and large, important projects that bind the country together – to build and bind the country together, reduce the maturity and build large, important projects across the country. 530 km shall be constructed with mainly a new four-field motorway through New Weier AS. The company should build long distances cheaper and faster than before. We're going to invest more than 200 billion. kr in the railway – the biggest lift for the railway since the Nordlandsbanen was completed in 1962. We're going to continue to say yes to new ideas and better solutions that provide faster, cheaper and more efficient deployments. Right will continue to modernise where others will reverse. We want to significantly reduce emissions in the transport sector by making it cheap, easy and attractive to use zero-emission technologies on the road, sea, rail and air. The objective is an emission-free transport sector. We promised in the opposition to increase investment in transport. The annual investment has increased by 50 p.m. and the national transport plan has been over-filled. We promised to get more out of each of these heads. New Roads AS are established and are based on building the same roads 20 pst. cheaper. The railway has been reformed and the construction of the same rails is envisaged between 10 and 15 pst. cheaper. We're taking the builders into the team earlier to get the good ideas out of it. We promised to contribute more to public transport in large cities, so that they can continue to be a driving force in an environmentally friendly way. Now the collective lift of time starts in Norway, and more and more trains, buses and tracks. But the left side will stop road construction and wing clipping New Roads. We believe Norway will stop if we stop building the road. On three projects, Nye Weier has already saved more than 3 billion. kr. In total, they have a goal of saving 30 billion. kr. These are savings to which the Workers' Party and the Center Party say no when they choose to wing clip New Roads. I have long been excited about what the Workers' Party would give priority to. Their local, hopeful candidates have demanded more on the way and path in all states. Now they give the answer: The longest wish list on the road to be provided – they're going to grant 5 billion. kr, it's 50. Exterior intercity maintenance — they grant 2 billion. kr, it costs 30. And the list continues. The working party is trying to trick the voters, they're wondering. They haven't been able to even set up an alternative table. I see, it would be a little embarrassing. But after hearing Jonas Gahr Støre, I see. He invokes the magic wand of Harry Potter – the schoolboy Harry Potter does notice. Jens Stoltenberg's calculator has been replaced by a magic wand. Simsalabim, there came with a spell of at least 100 billion new billion that the Workers' Party lacks to finance its plan. I am very pleased with the efforts being made in my home country, Buskerud. The Ringerix track is due to start in 2021. We're going to go on with rv. 7 and look at the Hallingdal Road Package. In the Drammens region, I'm glad we're now getting Rv in place. 23, clutch, and that we get a parallel tunnel under the Oslofjorden. The most important thing is to say: finally, as I said in the opposition, with this government we come “rapidly and safely home”.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1728	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1733	When the government's proposal for NTP was presented, many in my state were disappointed. Especially in Narvik, we felt that two important transport projects were not a priority. It was Ofotbanen and E6 out of the center. The appropriations were reduced or the project not mentioned in one word, respectively. But even though the cooperation parties were fully negotiated, we have seen that there has been room for something more, but then after the opposition has prioritised the projects. So who's trying to trick the voters, Helleland? Ofotbanen and the export of ore from Kiruna to Narvik have been the basis for the emergence of the city. Since 1993, Ofotbanen has been the main supply year between Oslo and North Norway and has become the green corridor for fresh fish in the north. It goes from Salt to North Cape – there are 16 trains each way each week that do an important supply job and constitute an export corridor for the fresh-fish market. It's faster than a wagon train. The amount of fresh fish exported with Ofotbanen has increased as the crop grows in farming. The quantity doubled from 2007 to 2016 and almost 200000 tonnes of fresh fish left Narvik by electric rail last year. 150000 tonnes thereof are from farming. Most of it's from the North and Troms. Success is due to the fact that goods go both ways. Northward comes 80 pst. of all the groceries purchased north of the Salt Mountain in Norway. The issue of Ofotbanen can be resolved through a joint project between the Swedish and Norwegian authorities, and the Workers' Party will continue to work on the plan for several crossing tracks on Ofotbanen, with the aim of building double tracks in the long term. Electric rail is emission-free and an important part of the solution to climate challenges. Narvik is the largest and fastest growing hub for goods in North Norway, according to the national freight analysis. This gives a lot of heavy transport on the E6, which goes straight through the Narvik center, because the railway terminal is south of the city. E6 in tunnel outside Narvik centre was part of NTP 2010–2019, but it fell out in 2014–2023. The need to get E6 out of the center has been known for a long time. As I said, the railway terminal is south of the city, while freight traffic is almost exclusively from the north. Therefore, trains with fresh fish have to pass through Narvik centre, and the route from Bjerkvik, 3 miles north of Narvik, until the terminal has most trains of all road sections throughout North Norway. The Narvik Centre had 32 days of dangerous air quality in 2016. This exceeds the limit of the authorities for suspended particulate matter and places Narvik in second place in particulate matter pollution on a national basis. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that the State Road Administration must start work with the Nordland County Municipality and Narvik Municipality on getting a Urban Package Narvik realized as a toll project. And that's why we're proposing 200 million. kr to start from 2018 to 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1750	The national transport plan we have for debate here today is a plan to build Norway; it is a plan to bind the country together from country to country. I notice that the Workers' Party is trying to create a small political memory room that this government is looking at the organisation of road and rail development with a little bit of new eyes, but when you have a transport plan for which a thousand billion dollars are to be allocated, it doesn't matter how you spend this money, and how it's organized. I miss a reform/renewal from the Workers' Party, which has a coal industry belief that yesterday's models are also the models of the future. So there's talk of so many more bureaucrats in the transport sector. That's wrong. When the traffic appropriations are increased by 50 pst. and 20 B.C.E. During this period, there must have been more than one weighing engineer, several land planners, simply competence, in order to be able to carry out these projects. It's just as wrong as saying that a nurse is a bureaucrat. It is gratifying that new E18 is part of the new national transport plan. It is particularly gratifying that the government has cut through and made this a national project and not an Oslo road. The Red-Green City Council in Oslo has done its utmost to thwart this project, but they did not come that far. Now new E18 will be developed continuously from Lysaker to Drengsrud, and the project will be a state project from Strand to Drengsrud. It was high time. This is a road that is dimensioned for the 1970s traffic. Cows, corks and chaos have been part of everyday life for too long for those living in that area. Sandvika is one of Norway’s most traffic-destroyed agglomerations, which now has a completely different opportunity to develop, in parallel with the tunnel passing Høvik and Sandvika. It is very gratifying that this government has now cut through and actually made E18 a reality. I would like to stand here and say that the road is now in front of the new E18. But there's a black cloud out there, and that's if there's a red-green majority again. The central party has said that they want to postpone the project, and the other parties with which the Workers' Party is dependent on cooperating are, of course, against the E18. So the risk of the game reoccurring, and the E18 being shot into the blue, is a reality if there is red-green rule in this room from the next election. But let's hope that the voters see it and stick to the noise that is now in transport policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1761	It was with the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, under the then Minister for Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, that transport policy finally became a national policy issue. Through the expeditious efforts of the Ministry of Transport and in close cooperation with major interests that depend entirely on good transport years, the NTP was presented in 2009, and that is the result of the extensive work that we see as the result of now, when we meet road workers around. Not least, it is well shown that it is good with a Minister of Transport from the Central Party in counties such as Uppland and Hedmark. It is good that the plans that were put in place at the time were followed up by new Transport Ministers from the Centre Party, and that the projects were started, so that it has been continuously developed almost until now. I have registered that the current Minister of Transport and representatives of the Progress Party have traveled around the country and the beach and promised both one and the other. To remove tolls we are not talking about anymore, but continuous expansion was at least important. Then many of us believed in our simplicity that this was also important in Uppland. But it does not seem to be the Progress Party. Many of the projects within the previous NTP, for 2014-2023, are either left out of the plan or pushed out in time. It's enough to mention E6 in Gudbrandsdalen and E16 through Valdres. Despite the fact that the Minister for Transport has preached that continuous expansion is important, the completion of the E6 Ringebu-Otta will not be a priority. It's incomprehensible! Nor is Fenres-Hande on the E16 given priority, even if it is part of today’s NTP. This means that these projects are not completed before 10–20 years, and here – at least on E6 – tolls are also required for a project that is not built. The centre party would do it differently, but it does not want the Minister of Transport. I would like to repeat that one in the State Road Service said many years ago, that E16 in Valdres had never been built if it wasn't for Navarsette. He was quite right in that – and one should still have faith in the Central Party with regard to the National Transport Plan. So a little bit to broadband eventually. Upland is actually the worst broadband coverage in the country. You wouldn't believe that, as close to Oslo as part of my state is. The challenge in the inland states is that we've spread a lot of population. It makes it difficult and expensive to build. The government doesn't spend any money on this. The council has been very concerned that, after all, he spends more money in my area now than before, and it was just supposed to be missing. In fact, the iPhone did not come to Norway until 2009, and there have been new needs. There should be increased government investment, but no, broadband for everyone is not important for a government that is not involved in the districts. It's not the digging code that's the challenge in Oppland, according to Eidsiva. It's completely different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1774	For one who is far from interested in transport and has had the pleasure of participating in the work at all political levels, it is a great day to be allowed to participate in the adoption of this NTP in the Stortinget. And it's inspiring to see that the government and the cooperation parties are prioritizing throughout the country and delivering the momentum of the times. As Mr Østfold's representative, I would like to express my joy and pride in the fact that we have been heard both by the government and by the majority of the committee. Eastfold has, among other things: have been heard about their input on the need for a rapid clarification of the crossing point for rv. 19 and the railway in Moss, a case that has created a lot of uncertainty and frustration in that city. Sarpsborg has been told that intercity is going to Hafslund, crossing Glomma, and not just to Sarpsborg Station. It is gratifying to see that Eastfold's remarks that the eastern line needs more crossing tracks to relieve the transport of goods on the west line during the construction of the IC have been heard by the Committee, which will not only simplify the IC development, but also reduce in the future the journey time for passenger transport in the inner east fold, which is a region of rapid growth. For Halden, it has been important that resources be made available to clear up the IC trajectory. The last time I was there, the rapporteur was deeply dismayed, because then it looked as if the whole city were going to be tied up. It is also nice to record that during the time this NTP has been being treated, it has also been clarified that the E18 from the Eastfold border to Winterbro will be built continuously, with a higher government funding and a lower toll share than in previous projects, and that the connection of the eastern line at the Ski Station will not be delayed. I have recorded both cases that some politicians and bureaucrats have tried to make a big deal and then doubt it. I would like to thank the Minister for the precise and good clarifications when someone has tried to make five chickens out of one feather. Despite the fact that the Workers' Party later feels like something else, the recordings from Østfold are a result of cross-political cooperation at state level and locally – if one ignores the environmental party De Green's resistance to anything that smells asphalt. That's why it's a very special experience to be here today, with the experience I personally have in being the designer of Østfold, the hearing input to the Transport Committee, and read the Workers' Party's proposal for NTP bets. Here, there is a long way between life and learning – or to say it in another way: from grassroots to the Stortinget. Here, the Workers' Party is going to have something to work with when they're going to talk out of all of their bets for the next four years, without it going with money. But much is well-known by increasing car-related charges and with more tolls for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1787	This is a very important document; the NTP affects small and large individuals and businesses in many ways, and we are all affected in some way. The NTP has, as it's been said earlier here, also some good ones, but it's not good enough. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that we need something more ambitious, in a serious and responsible alternative that we are presenting here today. It is about securing national development; it is about securing and creating jobs across the country, not least in the context of ensuring that a high-speed network is accessible to all. Even in Eastfold, which is a compact state, there are gaps and blank fields in the network access, and that has to be done. This is what the Workers' Party will deliver on, and it is good for individuals and for the business community in Eastfold. So to the railway: before the right came into government, there was almost no way of how much criticism and shit it was getting when it was about the pace of development on the railway and on the intercity development. According to central Right-People, for example, Mr Schou and the rapporteur in Moss, Mr Tage Pettersen, were therefore unheard that we did not get the intercity development in Eastfold until Halden was completed by 2030. So it just didn't work out, we heard. We heard before the fallout last that the Right believed that the intercity of Halden would be finished by 2025, yes, that's even in a statement said 2023. It was supposed to take care of it, just they won the election and came to the government. Then it went a few months, and then pushed the Right's own ambition until 2030. But then, when the Right came to power and got government, they pushed the ambition of intercity expansion until 2034! That's what Eastfold got, that's what the other states got – with the Right and the Advance Party in government. Now they believe that 2034 is an ambitious goal. It doesn't stand for believers, it doesn't hold for goal. We can say it quite briefly, that in this case, right-wing government won in 2013 and intercity expansion lost many, many years – and that is what remains as a main thing for Eastfold in terms of the NTP and the promises that came from the right-hand side before the 2013 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1795	Now the Eastfold representatives are coming in row and row, and that's important, because transportation is an important area for Eastfold, which is too many other states. Eastfold is the gateway from Europe, but also the gateway down to Europe, through Eastfold County, and that is important. Transport is important for the east fold, important for our business and important for our climate. For this reason, there has been a long and extensive job through various policy bodies and business organisations for the decisions to be taken today. The clarifications that Østfold has received in today’s setting are important. As the gateway down to Europe, it is important, the request that a concept selection inquiry be carried out on cross-border goods in cooperation between Norwegian and Swedish authorities. This is an important step towards moving on to the railways in the cooperation between Norway and Sweden, and it is a majority in today’s position. It is equally important, which has also been mentioned earlier in the debate, that more goods should be transferred to the railways. Measures should also be considered, including: on the east, e.g. by: crossing tracks through the inner east fold. It's important. Eastfold has some challenges with rail and road development through our cities – there is no doubt about it – and it is important that we get a better design pace on both, both by rail and by road. With regard to the design and construction of Sarpsborg, the National Transport Plan now states that the intercity project from Sarpsborg should go to Hafslund to cross the Glomma at the same time as the road development. There is an important clarification in the comments contained in today’s setting. Likewise, we go on to Moss, it's important there to cross the point of rv. 19 and the railways are cleared up as quickly as possible, and this is seen in the context of the urban development that will take place in the municipality of Moss. In Halden it is important, as the representative of Håvard Jensen said, that we get to clarify a trasé as quickly as possible, so that Halden Municipality and Halden Centre can also get the urban development they need. The party of progress, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, both here in the house and through the county, has worked closely for us to get to this, and today we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1816	It was with anticipation people in Sogn and Fjordane looked forward to the government's presentation of the National Transport Plan. Most people have a good enough memory to remember the time before the election, where the Right and Advance Party's representatives went round and promised Vikafjellsweg, better roads over the Strynefjellet, rapid expansion of the E39, racial protection, broadband – yes, that wasn't the thing you shouldn't have in place. After many reforms, which have made a lot of mistakes and made strong criticisms of the government and their supporting party, the national transport plan was an opportunity to show that the government also sees Sogn and fjords as an important and valuable state. This did not happen – even if the government was to get a "creed" for the City Ship Tunnel, but it was in there for 1 billion. kr, and the whole process was done before, so if he hadn't come, it would have been a disaster – even for the government, I would say. Over the next four years, a major road project will not be launched in Sogn and Fjordane. Two major projects are tossed out of the plan – racial protection over Stryne Mountain and extension over Vika Mountain with tunnel. It's only embarrassing to see how the plurals have sold a small comment in the twelfth hour, as if the projects have been reinstated. They are not. The first candidate to the Right in Sogn and Fjordane, Frida Melvær, released a happy message on Facebook that the Stortinget will today decide to take part in the projects on the Vikafjell and Stryn Mountain in NTP. But it's not like that. It may be necessary for the Right to learn its first candidates the difference between making a decision in the Storting and putting in a comment, even though it is a plural remark, because the country is governed by decisions — including the road sector. The center part lifts road construction, ports and fairways. We're raising broadband. We have added in our option that funds to the Vikafjell, the Strynberg and the seal to Florø. We're promoting E39, and we're betting on broadband. I hear that I have been mentioned in the hall in both positive and less positive turns. I think it's unlikely that the Progress Party is going from having about one third of the budget for rail investment to having 45 pst. – after all the discussions we had with Per Sandberg and others who criticized us north and down for the big railway effort we got in place. It was despite all the red-green government that got into place intercity. We were the ones who got the Folloban in place, and we're proud and happy, but we're not happy that this government is building so little and that it's halfway up the Gudbrand valley, and that the poor roads that are being built are largely financed by tolls. There's no honor for this government, at least not in the districts, because there's now an entry so it's the way that's the option. So this was a disappointment after all the big words, but that's very often what it's like when an intruder's corridor.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1831	The government claims that the NTP proposal is the largest transport promise in Norway. It may be, but we are many who claim that the Council of State and his colleague have forgotten Finnmark. The right-wing Party government has pointed out Finnmark as one of the country’s most exciting growth areas and promised to invest in infrastructure to exploit rich natural resources. It hasn't happened. As a result, Finnmark is very disappointing to experience as a balancing item in the NTP. We know that the need for resources for fishing ports is present, but what has been presented by the government now is simply not good enough. It does not address the need for important infrastructure in our coastal communities. I record that representatives from the Right and the Advance Party are trying to draw a picture that shows that, after all, Finnmark is a priority. The women's mountain is good, it should have, but for the rest of Finnmark, the sale of previously adopted projects from the previous NTP period was defined as a bet. What provokes it is that many more of these are moved into the blue, literally, to after 2024, while reducing the funds set aside. Route 93 The gap is such a project. “Kjipt” is a useful word. Good wishes give as no infrastructure is known. Then we'll hear from the government parties' representatives that we just have to relax – it's granted money to upgrade Rv. 94 – a total of 1.3 billion. kr to the route Skaidi-Hammerfest, and what remains, we can use for the Klöfta project. Then we just have to ask, what is the money? Can the Council of State assure us that 1.3 billion? kr is set off for rv. 94? We ask the regional manager if he has the money, the answer is no, he doesn't. The message also does not contain a number. State Council Jensen points out in the media that it's a 36-billion-billion-dollar bag post. kr. They shall be used for a number of purposes. It is difficult to understand why you have not managed to attach the money that is promised to rv. 94, when the numbers for the extension are known. The list of projects in the bag item is rv. 94 spent on 0. The county authorities of Finnmark are therefore right when using the characteristic that Finnmark has been put on hold. The Finnish-Hammerfest transport corridor is very important for the transport of goods in and out of the county. Therefore, there have been great expectations that the road would get a quality that allows a modular train. But we'll have to wait until we get a new government from the harvest. In the NTP, the members of the Committee of the Workers' Party have referred to SPS projects: «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party indicate that the Sewage Insurance Project rv. 93 The canyon in Finnmark includes the construction of a tunnel to ensure three points in Alta municipality against snow and rock cliffs. The points have a mid-step factor. In addition, road standards will be improved by eliminating poor curve and gradient sections.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1847	After eight years of opposition as a member of the Transport and Communications Committee, it is very gratifying to see that the policy and ideas we were down on for eight years in the last government are now being implemented at a high pace during this process of enlargement – eight years without innovation and necessary reforms. We have sometimes also had problems in seeing a forward-looking opposition in this four-year period. It's not that strange, because this government delivers, delivers and delivers in areas by region. Even today, we do not see a credible alternative to NTP from the Red-Green and, in particular, the Workers' Party. We don't see an overall alternative, but a wide range of individual promises at enormous costs, overall without real discovery and timing. Should the Workers' Party have government power from the fall of – which, of course, is not a reason, and especially not in the field of transport – a significant height of fall has at least been achieved. I would like to raise a special issue that I think needs to be given greater attention in the future, namely the system of county guarantees for borrowings for toll projects. This mechanism has been essential to ensure favourable interest and loan conditions for such projects, and thus the shortest possible repayment period. The guarantee scheme also requires approval from the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. Now we see that some of the toll projects, in particular holiday relief projects on the European roads, are becoming very large and costly. Here is usually also the large toll potential and related to today's ferry fare, plus 40 pst. This will eventually become a significant burden on the county's loan portfolio, their rating and thus their loan conditions. Yes, some county councils may be liable for guarantees that exceed their annual budgets six to seven times. Everybody realizes that this isn't going to go in the length. In the worst case, other parts of county services may be affected. That is why I think we are approaching a real approach as to whether the state should have full financial responsibility for its own roads, and that, therefore, the time has come to transfer this guarantee liability on national and European roads from the county municipalities to the state. I expect that this is a relationship that we can discuss in the future. I just wanted to travel this problem today, because I think this will become more and more visible gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1862	Another national transport plan has been submitted. New four years have passed. Eight years ago, one of them was standing at Moss Railway Station and cheered that the Mosse Tunnel was in the final period of the plan, 2015–2019. It was important because it was then prioritised, although the main thing is the first period, because it gives a clear signal for start-up. Four years ago, I cheered over the Mosse tunnel that entered the first period, and now the project is underway. I also welcomed the fact that there was a cross-political agreement that intercity would be expanded by 2030. This time it was the government parties that stood on the platform and cheered. Intercity on the Eastfold Railway was to be expanded by 2034. I remember that in 2013 the same parties were standing on the platform with me and said that 2030 is too late. They thought that there would be a lot of faster. Yes, the representative Ingerd Schou said yet again that they would expand by 2023, and that that was what was going to happen. The Eastfold Railway is the railway to Europe. We who take that railway every day experience blasted capacity on the trains, which means that in the rush hour you have to stand from Moss to Oslo. We experience delays every day. That's why we were very excited when we were promised in 2013 that the Eastfold Railway should finally be given priority, and that the entire section of the railway should be completed in 2030. What has happened in the four years that make today's government parties very happy that it is now due in 2034? For the Eastfold Railway, the government's postponement means a new 20 years of queue and delays. I hear that the debate here today is taking on a huge amount of words, on a journey promise without comparison in recent times. Eastfold Railways, E6 and E18 are the main years of traffic to and from Europe. According to Bane NOR, there is no room for more trains on the Eastfold Railway, and the speed is limited by many trains and many stops. Much will be improved with the completion of the Follo tunnel and a new tunnel under Moss, and we are delighted to see that. But when the rest of the Eastfold Railway is finished, it is now in blue-blue with the postponement adopted here today. The rail transport promise we enjoyed in 2013 has now been cancelled by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. But we in the Workers' Party stand by the promise we made in 2013, on completion in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1875	I thought I would do something as unusual as thanking the government council and the government parties and the cooperation parties for a good NTP. A lot of things have been said from this pulpit about what's happening and not happening, so I thought I'd take you on a little trip through the Nordland county. If you start at the state border of Trøndelag and drive northwards, you enter Helgeland, and there are the Helgeland packages being built with both hands. When you have left Helgeland, you drive down the Salt Mountain. Then you come down the Salt Valley, and there is a new tunnel that is being built, the Tjern Mountain, across to Sweden. If you drive a little further, you get to the tunnels between Fauske and Rognan, where you also repair and build a new road. When we get to Fauske, we have to decide whether we're going to Bodø or northwards, and we're going to Bodø, we're now building the last part of the road package Salten, so that you get a proper road there as well. If we go north, we're not going far until we get to Megården, and there are plans for new tunnels and new roads to Hamarøy. Once you've passed Hamarøy, you get to Ballangen, and you have to build a new road outside the center, and when you're done with the Ballangen, you go into Narvik, where the Hålogaland Bridge is built, and you look at finding a new tunnel through the city. If you move on, you get to Bjerkvik, and then you get to E10 and what's called the Hålogaland road, where it's going to be a lot of bet. As far as the railway is concerned, we are betting that the Ofot Railway will have its two-track solution. In the case of the Nordlandsbahn, crossrails are built, and in addition, we hope to get a light signal, so we don't have to have a man standing and waving. In addition, two new airports are to be built in North Norway, one in Mo in Rana, where business has been so active that they want to spend money on the table. I expect that the process started there will continue, and that the funds will be used as quickly as possible, so that the airport start-up at Mo in Rana will start as early as possible. In addition, an aerodrome in Bodø shall be moved. You chose to move the Defense. You have to build a new runway, and then you do the genius of moving the runway and freeing the area, and you get ‘New City — New Airport’. So even though it sounds like nothing's happening, at least I get to say that in Northland we're -- at least some of us -- very happy. If we're going to develop the continent of possibilities, there's one thing we need. It is not regional development funds, but it is infrastructure, infrastructure and infrastructure again. With the NTP being presented today, and with the appropriations we've been doing in the last four years, I have to say that even if I'm going to leave this room and my period is about to end, I'm happy to go back to the country and participate in developing it. It'll hopefully be together with today's government and the same parties that govern, so that you can build further transportation, for the benefit of all of our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1890	On 29 May 2013, the four bourgeois party leaders stood at Fornebu in Bærum with their very first joint play. They promised progress in the construction of the Fornebuban. We can start building already now, they said. Now, four years later, we know the story: Populist election vows to get votes. The spade was supposed to be in the ground, but not a centimeter is built in four years. The voters who voted for a faster expansion have every reason to feel cheated. This year they tried the exact same thing. And it became quite comical when the NRK Dagsrevyen clipped the promises from 2013 and 2017. In the exact same place you made the exact same promises. Transport policy is not solved by populism, but by action. Around the big cities there is a great need for rapid development of public transport, both as part of the climate solution and to make lives easier and better. The Labour Party today proposes that the State contribute up to 70 pst. by the bill for the collective projects around the major cities. It could mean a lot too much, for example. the construction of the Fornebuban, and that's a shame it's not going to get a majority today. Today, the Stortinget also treats Oslopackak 3 – a settlement between three equivalent partners: Oslo Municipality, Akershu County Municipality and the State. Everyone who works on a settlement knows how hard it can be. Everyone has to give and take in order to do the job they are set to do — provide the way and the way for the population. The right has e.g. accepted that toll money should also go to public transport. The left has been involved in projects that they would certainly have seen differently. In the Workers' Party we have also participated in giving and taking. But a settlement must be treated with respect and caution, which I feel is that at least most local politicians have, but really with a big exception from the Minister of Transport. It seems as if he has the aim of creating as much split as possible and spectral. Everyone knows that the E18 case has been a big and difficult matter. The working party believes that the information provided by the Road Administration is relevant and good. If the project can be made better and cheaper, it is something we support – although it is obvious that the Minister for Transport could and should have dealt with the matter in a much better way. But even now, after the Committee's vote is ready, we see that the Minister does nothing but try to create uncertainty about where the Workers' Party is standing, even if the vote is black. He must be the first Minister of Transport to really try to get people to disagree with him. The Minister of Transport must stop spreading uncertainty. We heard him now, and we heard Håkon Elvenes earlier today, who said there was a black cloud in front of Oslopackak 3. There is reason to recall that the only party outside Oslopackakt3 is the Progress Party. I am happy Solvik-Olsen today breaks with its party traps in Oslo and Akershus and stands for the moment's breach of promise when he becomes the Minister of Transport in Norwegian history who proposes the most toll. But that it is he and the Advance Party that – by all – should think that others create uncertainty, it falls on their own unreasonableness.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1905	I am very pleased with the great effort made by the Minister of Transport and the Government, together with the cooperation parties, in both road, track, sea and air. In these areas there has been no greater investment than now. On the coastline from Kristiansand to Trondheim, there is a formidable value creation both at sea and at land level, and it is crucial here for the efficient distribution of goods and services that we have an up-stream transport network that can provide good logistics. I am particularly pleased that the government has the ambition to link the West with a ferry-free and upgraded E39, and it is great that an overall committee shares this ambition. The Committee points out that the journey time will be reduced by about 10 hours after the project has been completed. On the day of the completion of an upgraded and ferry-free E39, we will have arranged for a very future transport year that will help ensure and improve competitiveness with other countries. Earlier in the spring, the Rogfast project was adopted, and therefore a very important piece in the ferry-free E39 is in place. In the case of transport corridors, a coherent approach must be taken and, in addition to upgrading the north-south corridor E39, a temporal connection east-west must be established as soon as possible. The government has pointed to E134 as a future highway between east and west in South Norway. The choice of E134 as a future link is a natural choice, and this choice has also been concluded in many reports and investigations by the State Road Administration, as a trade union. It has also been established that this is the most socio-economic project to get in place, and it will be a particularly beneficial project if the arm of Bergen is once included in the project. Today, unfortunately, E134 is not a safe winter road over Haukelifjell, and traffic stops and column traffic is particularly negatively affected by commercial traffic. Many teams have worked hard for many years to establish new tunnels from Seljestad to Vågsli to make the road winter safe. In the present position, the majority of the Committee has pointed out that E134 has been designated as the main road link between the East and the West and that the main point of improvement on the route is the Haukeli tunnels. I fully agree with this, as I myself have been stuck many times at Haukeli in winter. The majority of the Committee points out that the planning work for the route is soon to be completed, so that the start of construction could be earlier than in 2024, as foreseen by the government in the NTP. The majority then assume that the toll contribution can be used first, so that the construction start of the first Haukeli tunnel, from Seljestad to Røldal, can come within the first planning period. I find it very gratifying that the committee here has found a solution to the early start-up of the Haukeli tunnels, which has been specifically sought by business and other road users for many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1918	Many people have long been excited about what would be a priority to get into the national transport plan, and the government delivers and fulfills promises. The NTP we have for treatment is the amount of time on the road and track – a thousand billion over the next 12 years. It is to be built more, maintained more, and we are to get more out of the crowns that are granted for transportation. Finally, in the West Corridor, the new E18 is given its legal place and priority in this plan, and it is gratifying that the development takes place continuously and completely from Lysaker to Asker, that the Strand-Drengsrud route is being expanded as an ordained project with State grants. Work on getting a new E18 has taken time. The Swedish Road Administration has been working on the project for almost 30 years. Finally, Norway’s most trafficked road is upgraded. During these years, we have gained new knowledge about climate change and how destructive emissions from car traffic are for the environment. We have made a climate deal that says that the growth of passenger traffic towards the big cities is going to happen with public transport or bicycles and corridors. These considerations are included in Oslopackakt3 and the new plans for the new E18. The new road will have its own bus path, continuous cycle path system and large parts of today’s traffic in tunnels. It'll be easier to get there, we'll get cleaner air and less noise in the areas near E18. New E18 will be an environmental path. Fortunately, the Workers' Group agreed to the plans for the new E18, but I still feel a little uncertain about how much we can trust them. In Oslo, the Labour Party does not agree with its own big business group. They follow the views of the Greens, who do not want the E18 to be developed. The same thing happens in Trondheim. The Workers' Party also follows where the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party in the field of motorway development. I'm afraid it can also happen on a national basis. With the centre party on tow, money can be moved from highways to roads, because the centre party has said that they will prioritize down the E18 in the west corridor and postpone the project. And SV does not want E18 at all, as the plans are now available. We have recently recorded that the Workers' Party is not going down the road to reverse what has been decided, so there is cause for concern. The Right and Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, are clear and are the guarantors of the implementation of the new E18 road project. We are going to follow up on NTP as it is now available, with the necessary annual appropriations. After many years of planning, queue, cork and chaos, there is finally light in the tunnel. The E18 environment is welcomed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1931	When Solvik-Olsen took over the Ministry of Transport, he was also given responsibility for the coastal part of the national transport plan, including fishing ports. Fishing ports have nothing to do with transportation. On the other hand, it is a vitally important infrastructure for maritime food industries and their development. That is why it sounds a bit hollow when the Prime Minister is constantly bringing forward the maritime food industries to be invested in, and the Minister for Fisheries is travelling around the world selling Norwegian fish – and then the government is putting forward an NTP with a sensational weakness and late bet on just fishing ports. The Minister of Transport has been on his way along the coast. Then there were many expectations that it would be shown in the proposal for NTP. On the contrary, the share of NTP going to the coast is reduced by 1 pst. Now maybe it doesn't sound that much, but in dollars it actually amounts to about 10 billion. kr. The maritime route is located there – ready-salted, ready-to-use – and can offer safe and efficient transport of large quantities of goods, with clear environmental benefits. It is therefore directly incomprehensible that the government has not followed up the current national transport plan in this area. In fact, there were three specific areas that Stortinget agreed to and thus expected the government to follow up. Strengthening port infrastructure, support and incentives for port cooperation and an incentive scheme for the transfer of goods. It was added 3 billion. kr to these areas. So when the council boasts of an overfilling of the NTP, he fails to mention that within the coast it's only at 86 pst. This tells me about a lack of focus on the field. Maritime transport is also largely user-funded. It is therefore also important to strengthen competitiveness. You can do that with the incentive schemes that I mentioned. The government of Stoltenberg has removed several charges, including: the safety charge and the coastal charge, but more important than that: the Government of Stoltenberg, following close dialogue with short sea shipping, proposed an incentive scheme for several shipping companies to start up freight routes at sea. Unfortunately, Solvik-Olsen has spent almost four years proposing a scheme, and to all intents and purposes, a scheme that the industry itself believes is underfunded by 200 million. kr. So when the representative Halleraker has obviously been bored for eight years, I don't know how he's been having it for the last four years. I keep my words. This is an area that interests the Minister for Transport in the middle of his back. That's why I'm glad I belong to a party that's lifting up the coast. People along the coast also notice this. Good choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1946	Today, the Stortinget adopted the most offensive and forward-looking national transport plan over time, and it will invest over 1 000 billion. Innumerable large and small projects throughout the country. In Sogn and Fjordane, a number of important communication projects have been identified to be launched or planned in the NTP. The most joyous thing is that it is now finally being built by the City Ship Tunnel. The town of the ship's tunnel becomes the world's first ship's tunnel and will become a world sensation, both during construction and when it is finished. It will provide safer and faster maritime transport for coastal industries and will facilitate the development of a strong urban and working region on the coast of the North West. For decades, our work has been focused on building the City Ship Tunnel. Now this becomes a reality, thank you be the government party Right and the Progress Party and the Cooperation Party Left and Christian People's Party. There is also a strong commitment to E39 in Sogn and Fjordane in NTP. In addition to one of these days starting the construction of Bjørset-Skei, Myrmel-Lunde is also started in the first planning period. The Bogstunnel and several breed protection projects are in place during the planning period. Racial protection of rv. 5 in Kjøsnesfjorden is also fully funded in the first part of the planning period, only a pity that Navarsete's representative has not brought it. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Government Party and the Cooperation Party for having put in place a very important remark on Rv. 15 Wrestlers. Upgrading the road over the Strynefjellet is crucial to provide winter safe and race-proof roads. With this plural comment, these parties have followed up thorough and good recordings in the hearing of the NTP from three counties, regional councils, municipalities and not least from the users of this important connection between east and west. The note indicates that the B1 arm-to-arm option for Geiranger is the best-achieved solution and a prompt conclusion to the government's trasé choice. All of this is an important signal from these parts of Stortinget. The comments of NTP from these parties refer to the need for further distribution of the Vika mountain, and there is also an important note about the resolution of the bottlenecks between Byrkelo and Sandane. As a member of the Municipal Committee, it is very gratifying to see that the new suspension system, which has been put in place by the Government Party and the Cooperation Party, is already producing results when we are to approve Nordøyvegen later today. Here too, a blue-blue government had to set up a penguin red-green scheme – in 20 years – that was totally useless. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on the opposition's priorities, because everyone can see that the red-green option cracks like a tail, in all directions. All the worst is the Workers' Party with its completely unrealistic supremacy of 120 billion unimaginable. SEK-160 billion. kr. When a user has several tens of billions more than one cover, that means that their priorities have no value. In our company, there are many greetings from the Workers' Party about research and new projects. Common to all is that it's like birds on the roof and no realism.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1966	With good transport solutions, we build this country. It was the Right Warrant in the election campaign in 2013, and we have followed it up in government. Annual investments in transport have increased by 50 pst and the national transport plan has been over-filled. Through this ambitious transport plan, we are prioritizing 1 000 billion. kr for the next 12 years on the bet of time on new roads and railway lines. The maintenance is strengthened and important projects linking the country are implemented. For Northern Ireland – the state that goes down and with a business life that may depend more than anything else on good transport solutions – this transport plan provides a boost. Almost $27,000. To lift the traffic in Northern Ireland means a lot. One of the perhaps most ambitious measures in the north is the ‘New City — New Airport’ project in Bodø. Following the decision of the previous government to shut down Bodø Main Aviation Station, the then Right-Rapporteur sat in the driver's seat to bring the city forward. It is a project that, among other things, The Labour Party did not believe in but, fortunately, today has a broad political majority behind it, and the Prime Minister of the country has also been enthusiastic about it. This is not just a national transport project. It is a project in which one plans, builds and develops a new, smart, compact and environmentally friendly future city in the north and has also received international attention. Then the government has prioritised another important airport project, which is well worked with both business and local politicians, namely new airport at Hauan outside Mo in Rana. It gives business new opportunities. This will allow you to start using local resources as soon as possible. The biggest challenge in the north is a winding and poor road standard. Through this NTP, there's a lot going on in the north. And to mention something, there is the launch of giant projects with new tunnels through Sørfold, which are not only important for business and road safety, but it also makes the road distance narrow down sharply. The Hålogaland road is a project that has tripled in cost. Both of these projects have started in the first period. E6 Helgeland is well under way, and E6 Helgeland North is to be fully and continuously implemented. Furthermore, it is important to note that the Storting through this treatment has also increased the progress of the project by adding E6 through Narvik in a trajectory outside the city core. The same applies to the Ofotban project. Here, the progress of the project must be seen together with what is happening on the Swedish side. With this ambitious transport plan, we build Nordland and connect people. Not least, we give people a better transport day, and not with an overbidden policy, as we see coming from the Workers' Party. At least the Nordics can't know what is being prioritised if the Workers' Party were to win.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e1987	Now that we are dealing with a 12-year infrastructure plan, it must of course be about building an infrastructure for the future – not only on the road, sea and rail, but also on the network. It is necessary to build broadband and network access to meet the future needs of digital communications and data transmission. It's one of the main stakes of the Workers' Party in our alternative arrangement. It is clearly different from today's government, which has been pulled backwards into the future over four years, when time and again fewer money has been proposed for broadband expansion. If we want to build the whole country, create jobs and facilitate housing across the country, broadband access needs to be expanded. In large parts of our scattered country, the market is not going to fix that job alone. The development of digital infrastructure is a national responsibility and must mean national resources. An NTP and a government NTP proposal would otherwise be an exercise in counting how many and what new projects have come in. It's not like that this time. For us in Hedmark, it has been more about looking with light and light for not only new projects, but also existing projects – and then disappointed to say that this was a bit boisterous. Several of the important projects in Hedmark that are pushed out in time or as well as being put on ice are explained with increased costs. It's not just Hedmark. It builds up under the impression of a government with no cost control. Our arrangement contains a clear plan to get control of the cost growth. That need should also have been seen by the government. Better cost control will be necessary to implement the plans adopted today. The Workers' Party believes that the ambitions for full intercity development must be maintained by 2030. This is a good example of how the government has run the cost. We believe that the government must come back to Stortinget with a review and a comprehensive plan for the entire intercity, with full expansion by 2030 as its goal. Another example is the E16, and the E16 Slomarka–Nybakk remains as a monument to this government’s inability to implement. According to the current representative of Hedmark in the previous election campaign, the whole of E16 could be completed in 2017 through Akershus and Hedmark. The government of the NTP now writes that it is up to preparatory work and any start of construction in the project during the last part of the planning period. If the government had followed up the current NTP, we would now have done well to expand the first part of the remaining distance, but now it's pushed out in time again. We believe that this is a typical stretch that can be forced and built faster than the government adds up to, not least to close a hole between two four-field sections. We also set aside money that can help to carry out the road projects in question. This is quite different from what representatives from the bulk of the population have done: selling it as a saying that the road in 2021 is to be considered included in the portfolio of the new roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2002	It is interesting to follow this debate as a health policy. I thought we in the Health Committee had a lot of people who wanted good money for good purposes, but I think the representatives of the Transport Committee have it tougher than us health politicians. There was some disappointment in my region when NTP was presented, for the simple reason that we eased after starting off on the section Seljestad–Røldal in the first period. There is now a majority comment in the vote that will allow it to start in the first period. We're very happy about that, everyone who comes from my part of the country. One particularly important reason to get started is that we're about to start Rogfast, as we've just decided, and it's a point that the completion of Rogfast is linked to the completion of Seljestad–Røldal, because it will generate a lot of traffic. So that's great stuff. But in the middle of all of this, there's a little too few people who are busy with the free E39. We have just had a regional debate and a debate on where the borders are going to be in the West. I dare say that it is much more important for the interaction and coexistence of the West with road links and to remove ferries than where this regional border is going. Roads and transportation are building up the West, not where the various offices are going to be found. I would like to thank the Committee for a good job. Now I'm not sitting there -- fortunately, I almost kept saying. You've got a lot of recordings and accepted them, and I think what's coming now, has a good connection. Then I'm going to leave to you professional transport politicians to argue about the details.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2015	Tradition's belief did not answer my challenge during the reply: building motorways in the metropolitan areas is the recipe for increasing emissions, and he made it appear that people driving from Hamar to Oslo do not increase traffic in the Oslo area, and thus did not respond to whether he understands what all the research shows, namely that if road capacity increases in urban areas, traffic will also increase. The red-green government provided reinforced reward schemes for public transport and later urban environment agreements for this transport planning period. We just did that so that the state would give carrots to the urban areas, to make the cities and the counties choose more environmentally friendly urban development, and it has worked. There are many more applications now looking at comprehensive transport solutions, facilitating public transport, pedestrians and bicycles. However, Solvik-Olsen must be the first Council of State to use its power to bring down environmental solutions in cities, and which uses its power in negotiations to refuse local politicians to arrive at the best transport solutions for their people, and which subsequently trains the introduction of environmentally-differentiated and time-differentiated tolls, such as here in Oslo and Akershus, which would show that the need for new motorways is exaggerated, and which would create clean and safe urban air for large parts of the population of Oslo. Now it's in place, but it's half a year late. Instead, Solvik-Olsen, the king of tolls, treads and shows that the state is not able to trust and counter the solution that Akershus and Oslo came up together to build more highways than we locally agree to build. No one is driving as much a car as men in Bærum, and notice, people all over the country, that it is precisely these men who are now going to get a solid highway to continue driving in the area of the country that has the very best public traffic, so that the rest of the country has to do more work to cut emissions in the years that come. Oslo SV, together with the Labour Party and the Green Party in Oslo, is very clear: we are on the Oslopack 3 agreement. We want to investigate an E18 that doesn't increase capacity. We want the traffic reduction from a new Oslofjord tunnel into the plans. What is now happening is unacceptable, we believe, and it is absolutely necessary that only the SV and the Environment Party, the Greens, should ensure that the consensus can be maintained and will therefore ask for support for the elections. Solvik-Olsen doesn't fulfill the promises of the big cities. The promise is that all collective projects of national importance will receive 50 pst. support, and we now see that the Oslo signalling system does not receive support, although it is a national project that will provide 25 pst. additional capacity through the Oslo tunnel. Thank you for working with the Transport and Communications Committee, seen from the outside, from my side, during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2032	I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Transport on the day. It is a brilliant day for government cooperation between the Party of Advancement and the Right, and not least for the supporting parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We have got the national transport plan of the times, with a crazy commitment to public transport and rail. Shortening and standardisation of planning processes helps us to get more roads and lanes and multiple routes. For the first time, children are also included in the plan. In Buskerud, there is a road and rail project, namely the Ringerix Railway, which, after decades of investigation and disagreement, is now being realized. The Ringerix Railway is a 40 km long brand-new railway that provides a journey time between Oslo and Hønefoss in 35 minutes. There will be two trains per hour and one possibility for a long distance train. In parallel, a four-field E16 motorway is constructed between the Skaret and the Hönefoss. It's amazing! The road between Oslo, Geilo and Bergen is being shortened. The joy is that for the first time this implementation has been funded in NTP. With a traditional planning process, the project had been ready for construction start in 2024. This government is doing something about it. The E16 and Ringeriksbane have been significantly accelerated in this NTP compared to the NTP for 2014-2023. It was in there just 1.5 billion. NOK to Ringeriksbanen and NOK zero to E16. In NTP 2018–2029, projects are fully funded, and there are approximately four times as large government funds for the Ringerix Railway in the comparable period and the possibility to spend 3.2 billion. kr in advance tolls on E16. The Ringerix region has been raised after years in the dark. We have now adopted the Bjørum-Skaret project, and Sandvika-Wøyen is now being built. With funding and more efficient and faster planning, one could help to speed up the Ringeriksbanen project by 2021. The representative Myrli said in his speech that it was not certain that the current Minister for Transport would implement this plan. Then I just say, "Gröss and Gröss!" Then there is great cause for concern. The Ringeriksbanen then risks going into an uncertain future. The working party said in its comments related to the treatment of NTP 2014-2023 that it would start construction in 2018, but the money was not included. The promise is now 2019, but the money is still not included. The priority of the Workers' Party is highly uncertain. The money must be on the table – something else is unprofitable!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2051	I will focus on rv in this article. 7 and Rv. 52, which are important links between the East and the West in Norway, with two central mountain crossings. Both at rv. 7 over Hardangervidda, which is chosen as the main road for passenger car and bus tourist traffic to the east-west, as well as rv. 52 The Hemsedal mountain, chosen as the main road for heavy transport, depends on upgrading and major investments. And for there to be no doubt: the Labour Party supports the proposal on Rv. 7 and Rv. 52 as highways between east and west. Hallingdal, in line with most districts and regions, needs good communication in order to have a positive development. Hallingdal is also in particular the largest tourist region in the country, with between 5 million and 6 million guests. Not for any other region of the country has travel life as much to say as for Hallingdal. This is well documented in several reports. The analyses clarify the special situation of Hallingdal given that a very large proportion of traffic is travel-life-related. Rv. 7 and Rv. 52 has two main objectives: it is the main road to and from Hallingdal, where travel life's transport needs largely contribute to leading development, and it is the main road between east and west. Rv. In any case, henfoss–Gol will be the most important and most trafficked east–west link for a long time to come. It is very positive that Ramsrudhällingen and Sokna–Örgenvika on Rv. 7 is complete, but there will be half-work if no further development of Rv is facilitated. 7 Hønefoss-Gol, which is and will be a major road link between east and west. As the most widely used East–West link, it would be right to give priority to Ørgenvika–Gol in the first place, and then as an entire project. Regardless of the choice of the eastern-west main road link, it is essential to enhance winter regulation. This is especially true of the Hardanger range. For rv. 7 The tougher range must also be solved once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2066	As a trouser, I am incredibly happy that today we are going to adopt major and important transport projects for which we have been working for years. For the first time, we feel confident that we will complete the E6 throughout the Trøndelag during the period. In the past, there have been patchy repairs to smaller distances. Now we get a motorway through large parts of the new Trøndelag. The starting point for starting E6 south we make through the toll proposition Windåsliene–Korporal bridge. In the past, it has been like a small slice of salami that has been pushed across the disc without us having reached it. Today we get the whole sausage! It is also interesting to see that the Workers' Party does not propose to withdraw E6 south of Nye Veier, but also indicates that even more sections should have been included in their portfolio. This is actually a good picture of the Labour Party's social policy: it is loudly yelling, it is criticised, but there will be proposals for changes at the end. The second major project that delights a eardrum is today’s clear decision on a new freight terminal at Torgård. After several decades of investigations and a case on which the previous government was unable to decide, the Right-Fremskritsparte-government decided that the freight terminal for Trøndelag should be located south of Trondheim, according to professional advice and business wishes. Today, the Torgård option is adopted and the planning and implementation of new freight terminals is implemented as soon as possible. But I am very concerned about what will happen if the Workers' Party should come to power from the fall of. The working party endangers the new freight terminal. It is a very alarming signal when the Workers' Party says they will postpone the freight package on the railway to build more double tracks in the East. Now we've worked hard together over time. The working party has tried to stop the freight terminal at each crossroad. They would not decide where it was to be, and they would have even more investigations, it took them a long time to support Torgård, and then they put in many reservations. They did not support step by step expansion and introduced a requirement for full expansion that would mean that we had to wait even longer to get the terminal out of the Trondheim center. Now they're jeopardizing the development by opening up the freight package to get more rail in the East. What about the rest of the railway operation in Trøndelag – such as increased track capacity Trondheim – Stjørdal, which is absolutely necessary to reduce travel time and make the railway a major and necessary player in public transport in the Trondheim region – if the Workers' Party comes to power? It is with pleasure that I shall be able to adopt a historical movement effort for the country and for my own region. Now it's about putting words into action, and then it's obvious that it's today's government that can clearly give us security that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2081	The right went to the choice to bet on traffic. After four years we can say, "Right delivered." Never before has such an ambitious national transport plan been delivered as it is now, and that is a reason for it. Over many red-green years, decay on the roads has increased and increased, and a number of road sections were actually characterised as being directly dangerous. That's why it was high time for a new government. Now the downfall on the roads has stopped, and the aftermath has been reduced. Infrastructure is important for everyone, both private and business, and for districts are safe and good roads are absolutely vital. I come from a state that is completely dependent on a government that is betting on infrastructure. The work on E6 between Finnmark and Troms is now continuing with full strength, which means that in a few years' time we will have a track that connects Finnmark to the rest of the country, on an annual basis. For a number of years, an expansion of the runway in the Kirkenes has been on the priority list from Finnmark, and now, with the good help of a South Varanger Right who never gave up, that project has been accelerated. The start-up takes place immediately and the runway is due to be completed in 2019. Here the government and Avinor must be thanked, who have been very responsive in this process. Yes, more runways still need expansion. Our job doesn't stop here. The government's proposal included 1.3 billion. kr to repair rv. 94, under the heading «Area of programmes». Then it turns out that the county wants to prioritize a little bit differently, so you can both improve the point rv. 94 and, in addition, accelerate the start of race protection and roadside improvement in the Klöfta on rv. Ninety-three. It will allow the use of a modular train from Hammerfest to the Finnish border, and it now provides its connection to the bulk mass. Today's rv. 93 shall be upgraded to E45, and that will now be possible. Then we get the E45, the Northern Light Corridor, from Italy up to the northern light town of Alta. It offers even more opportunities for Finnmark and is an important promotion also for increased tourism and tourism activity. In addition, when we build a long-distance tunnel through the Racial Skarvberg towards Nordkapp, we can safely say that it is now delivered in many areas, both in Finnmark and in important traffic trails out and in the county. Many important projects remain, but we are in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2094	Finally, the day is here – a historic day and a historic thing. We're going to adopt the NTP. It becomes and is a really positive cause of joy. It's also another historical matter we're going to deal with today, but there's absolutely no historical, positive gratification. It is a very sad, ugly and tragic matter; the matter is so bad that the majority of the committee has tried to hide it away in the big NTP debate, and it seems that the Progress Party is a poor solution. For this is too serious a matter – which will have dramatic consequences for the drivers – for it to be camouflaged away in an NTP debate. Of course, I'm talking about Oslopackak 3. In the case of tolls, this is extremism at its worst. Unfortunately, it has become more and more common with so-called urban environmental packages. They are based on local desire and are so-called packages that the Advance Party and our voters absolutely do not want. Locally, the Progress Party is against, and of course we have also done so in Oslopackak 3. But Oslopackak 3 goes so much further than traditional city packages with one bombing around a city. In Oslopackakt 3, against the voices of the Advance Party in Oslo, there is now a bomb bombing on the bomb within the bombing itself. It is an extreme measure that only intends to skin and plague the drivers so much that they are indirectly forced to walk, ride bicycles or travel collectively. As I said, the Progress Party votes against such packages locally, but in government with the Right we have a committed cooperation with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, all of which are in favour of such packages, and therefore unfortunately we have to adapt and vote in favour. But in any case, we in the Progress Party do not give in to the fight for the drivers, and consequently we promote our own proposal to give 20 pst. We hope, of course, that this proposal will be supported by the majority of the population. The Progress Party responds to several issues in Oslopackak 3. One is the size of the number of bombs, because there are bombs on bombs consecutively within the general bombing. The second is the rates, i.e. The costs will be borne by the drivers who need to travel within different places in Oslo – the costs will be too high. When the cost becomes so high, the drivers become another dairy cow, since the tolls do not necessarily correspond to what the drivers get back in terms of better, safer and safer roads. The money is used for all other possible measures. This takes the Progress Party a long way away, and that is why in the past we have – in one case – changes to the Road Law and the Road Traffic Act, Prop. 82 L for 2016-2017 – promoting a general and overall proposal that in such urban packages there must be a proportionate relationship between the share of tolls paid by the drivers and the return of drivers in terms of better and safer roads. Furthermore, we see that the drivers are to be taken again, by not immediately adding up to a 20 pst bomb. It seems that the Progress Party is unacceptable, and we are therefore promoting a proposal for 20 pst. Discount on the introduction of step 1 in Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2109	The President would point out that a decision on tolls such as ‘skin’ driving lists is far from parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2114	I think it's okay with pure words for the money, me. Now people around our cities are told that what the Council of State and the government are saying, that we are going to take up more traffic with collectives, bicycles and gangs in the urban areas, is really quite against the Progress Party. It's double communication, it must be allowed to say, because the truth is they're saying one thing, and they're saying something completely different and trying to create a completely wrong impression. We have long seen that the Progress Party does not care about anyone other than the drivers, nor about the climate and environmental challenges. But it does SV, and one of the projects that we have prioritised is about getting goods on track. Then everyone knows that you have to have long distances where it pays to use the train for freight. Then it is urgent to get power on the entire Rørosbanen, so that goods to be driven on a trailer from the north to Europe can be transported by train instead. I've been discussing this for many years, and sometimes I wonder if people have maps at all, where you can see what's the shortest distance, what's the lowest mountain crossing, and where it's easiest to build out, so that the train can go quickly and well, and that the goods should not enter Alnabru, which is a bottleneck in the freight traffic. Therefore, SV is now proposing money to launch the entire Rørosbanen – not just the Hamar-Elverum-Kongswinger route, which will make a new bottleneck on Hamar for the goods. Many have been in favour of this, but the Progress Party and the Right have previously proposed to put down this path, as they have proposed to put down the Bergensbanen. I think they're pretty happy now that they didn't get a majority for it. So this is a national effort to increase the volume of goods. I have attended quite a number of meetings about this in winter, and what is pleasing is that the business community in Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland are now taking part in this and want to welcome this initiative. In practice, you get a modern double track between Oslo and Trondheim on the purchase. This is a future project that you have to get in place if you want to have large volumes of goods out of the way. And I can assure you that this is a national need. What people in the Baltic Valley need is to get the trailer traffic off the road, because it's heavy and increasing, it's dangerous, it's tearing down the road, and it's a major environmental problem in the Baltic Valley.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2130	This is a very happy day, not least for those who are engaged in commerce and business, in the context. The cooperation parties agree on a national transport plan that facilitates the interconnection of parts of the country, regions and several housing, cultural and labour regions. This is true in many places in the country, but I am especially pleased with the results for More and Romesdal. From Betna-Stormyra in the north to Stad skverstunell in the south and west and to the Rome valley in the east – that in addition to the Møreaksen and Hafast, which cross the Romsdalsfjord and Storfjord respectively, there was also a common majority remark for the Halsafjord on the North Sea now at the tamp, that all parts of the Møre and Romesdal have been included with regard to ferries-free E39 through the county. Then I have to take the fishing berth in Gjøsund. Although you could always want more, this is very good. For the fjord and ferries of More and Romsdal, it is absolutely necessary to have more fjord crossings without ferry. In particular, it is important for business, which depends on fast transport. In addition, of course, it is important to reduce the journey for those who currently rely on a ferry. So pay tribute to the four cooperation parties in the committee. In addition to NTP, another important issue for Mr More and Mr Romsdal is being debated in this joint debate: Nordøyvegen. The fact that an overall committee is behind the position on this matter is particularly gratifying. That the matter is dealt with in Stortinget one of the very last days of negotiations in this room during this period, is liberating. I would like to thank you for good conversations and good dialogue about the North Island Road here on the house, both with the representatives Abid Q. Raja and Helge Orten. The Committee points out that this is a very long-term project, and that is true. Nearly 3000 inhabitants now live in the North Islands north of Ålesund mainland connections, and the mainland has better access to the active business of the North Islands. Is there anything negative about this connection? No, no, no. There is reason to thank the municipality of Haram and the municipality of Sandøy and the business community and the inhabitants of the municipalities for their enormous commitment to the case, and not least there is reason to thank the municipality of More and the municipality of Romesdal and for the firmness of the county politicians for the project over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2145	We're also going to treat Prop today. 134 S for 2016–2017, saw a few words about it, as the case rapporteur. It includes a transport package for the Kristiansands area of 2.3 billion. kr, where a wish to extend toll collection for two years, until 2020. It has a solid regional and local political anchoring and, in the case of tolls, it is important to link the solution with the requirement for heavy-duty car bombing against bank guarantees or credit cards, so that all actors pay separately. However, until such a system is in place, the Committee proposes a solution with a pass-through roof or an hourly rule for the transport of food which is subject to an excessive toll burden. I am promoting the Committee's position. So a couple of other things about NTP. Different parts of the country have requested in this process how the ferry relief system for national roads is to be organised. First of all, the Stortinget has already stated that one assumes up to 40 years also for highways, in the same way as for county roads. Secondly, the majority states that flexibility should be provided for in the financing solution, so that the time-frame for user payments can be extended beyond the usual 15 years where there is a local desire to do so. It is also an important issue for many, which allows more people to use these means to create a continental link. Then I register that some representatives from the Workers' Party have stated that they believe that the Workers' Party, through its arrangement, has guaranteed intercity, both inside and outside, by 2030. It has been said here from the pulpit. There is nothing in the Workers' Party's financing arrangements that makes this possible, and it has also been clearly confirmed by the representative Sivertsen earlier today. So here, even among the Labour Party's own representatives, it is a great error. Then we've got a question from Northland about this with the airport at Hauan. I would just like to stress that, on the issue of it, the wording of the proposal for NTP remains attached to the four cooperation parties. Although the text of the NTP is not repeatedly worded in an annotation form, I would just like to stress on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the other cooperation parties that it is still based on up to 600 million. kr of funds from local and private businesses can give start-up as soon as possible. This is behind the comment on effective and rapid progress with local partners on an implementation agreement. Finally, I would just like to stress that the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. 14 from the Centre Party, a proposal that we also voted in favour of in the context of the 2017 budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2158	When the government presented the NTP, there was no way of complaining from the Workers' Party and the Centre about the lack of action and bet – so also in my home country, Buskerud. But now we see that their own plans for Buskerud are nothing but a large belly pad, as it appears in the notes, for just listen here: My good co-representatives Martin Kolberg and Per Olaf Lundtegen and others. expressed great concern that the construction of the Ringerix railway in NTP was postponed from 2019 to 2021. Your own comment is not exactly impressive in this way: ‘The members of the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s Committee will underline the importance of planning the Ringerix Railway, so that the construction of this long-discussed section of the track can be started soon.’ «Soon» is a very tidy concept of policy, and when all the Workers' Party has money for railway development, it is three to three billion. kr, but free enough in its comments takes the order to expand all four intercity sections – calculated for nearly 30 billion. kr – you have to wonder if the Workers' Party has again made a mistake or has forgotten a zero in the amount you want to grant. In fact, it is worth mentioning that both Ringeriksbanen and E16 from Sandvika to Hønefoss are now fully funded with established construction start in 2021 and have been strongly accelerated in NTP 2018-2029 compared to NTP 2014-2023. In the current NTP, adopted under the red-green, there was not one penny to the E16 and boisterous 1.5 billion. kr to Ringeriksbanen. Now the Workers' Party has paid $4.4 billion. kr for road projects. The problem is that the Workers' Party is using the same money over and over again, because it covers itself in its comments behind the somewhat wretched wording 'and further refers to the Workers' Party's proposal on the means of speeding up projects'. [[...]] Once again, 27 projects with a total cost framework of 56.3 billion. kr, you can see that everything Martin Kolberg and the Workers' Party have in their pockets is toy money. However, from the point of view of Buskerud, it is reassuring that there is a broad consensus on the importance of two trains per hour to Hokksund and on to Kongsberg and planning materials for a new rv. 35 Hokksund-Åmot. However, it can be concluded that the Workers' Party's transport plan is unrealistic. They spend the same money several times and underfinance a number of projects. They have criticized the government and the cooperative parties for spending too much money in the most ambitious transport plan of the time, but they choose to add 7 billion. NOK 6 billion and will be charged. kr extra in tolls from the drivers. Nevertheless, they do not have the money to do what they say they should do, and that is why I do not believe in the Labour Party's future infrastructure policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2176	The Central Party proposes over 7 billion. more than the government of investment appropriations to improve communication. The county road network, which is not covered by this plan, must also be heavily upgraded, with a fixed tyre, 10 tonnes axle load, and one must cut the telecommunications restrictions. It's also going to be a priority problem in the future. Trains shall be set up in the urban struts, road in the districts. The central part of Buskerud is very clear, like the central part of the centre, that the east-west connection occurs by upgrading the rv. 7 The rough gauge as the main road to solving passenger car and tourist traffic, to get a winter safe road without closure, and to take care of the needs of the wild train. Furthermore, Rv. 52 The Hemsedal mountain is being upgraded, not least from Gol to Hemsedal and through Hemsedal center, so that a better condition for heavy traffic, which is a heavy burden for Hemsedal today. There is a need for significant investment and the Central Party is pleased with the government's solution for Rv. 7 and Rv. 52. Hallingdal road package: there is a need for planning materials for rv. 7 on the route Ørgenvika-Gol. One must have a new path on the Svenkerud-Gol route. Ørgenvika-Svenkerud needs upgrading. The centre party is strongly dependent on the necessary planning measures, which must come in the next four-year period. I refer to our own comment on that point. The start of the Ringeriks track in 2019 is possible, and it is realistic based on the progress of today's planning, which I will praise. In the case of E16 Skaret-Hønefoss, the County of Buskerud has taken a decision in principle to forge 3.2 billion. kr to complete the construction start in 2019, i.e. at the same time as the start of the construction of the Ringerik Railway. The centre party is a hot trailer and will praise the planning of the track from Bane NOR in the case of the Ringerix track and E16 on that route. Then to rv. 35: It is a unanimous committee – and I would like to stress it – that prioritises planning resources for the Hokksund–Opt route, so that we can complete the planning of that route, including exit from Åmot to Sigdal. It is important to clarify here, so that the trasé choice can be clarified for the benefit of the Upper Eiker Municipality, which is very much affected by the plans. Gulskogen-Kongsberg Railway: the necessary funds must be allocated to Gulskogen-Hokksund to ensure that a necessary action is taken to provide two trains per hour by 2025 and equivalent – two trains per hour – on the route Hokksund-Kongsberg in 2030. It is essential to have this involved in order to show the Kongsberg industry that the industry leaders who are there are enjoying society's security. Finally, if rv. 23 Oslofordnung: The centre party is behind the government's proposal for a new tunnel run on that route. It is important because it provides rapid improvement and, together with the necessary preparedness and control of heavy goods vehicles, it is a solution that, in a cost-benefit perspective, is the best thing we are facing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2201	We received a strong reminder of the importance of facilitating business throughout the country, following the sharp fall in oil prices. Fortunately, we have a government that understands this, and national transport plans are now establishing lifebloods for the whole country, ensuring the flow of goods, services, information and people. We also live at a time when environmental and climate policy is more important than ever. Fortunately, we have a government that understands this. The national transport plan has a target of taking urban growth by collective, bicycle and gangways. We're within the railway line of time. Right in government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, implements a historical effort on the road and the track, by building more, maintaining better and getting more out of each crown. For several decades, the downtime on the road and the track increased because there was too little maintenance. We've turned this over to renewal. We're now prioritizing 1 000 billion. kr for the next 12 years of the time's bet on, inter alia. new roads and railway lines, improved maintenance and major projects linking the country. The only option created by the Workers' Party is new issues and greater uncertainty. The working party will use 5 billion. kr to accelerate projects costing more than 50 billion. kr. It is impossible to know which projects should be accelerated and which should not. The decision today also has an important and pleasant greeting for my own area. The right, together with the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, states in a majority remark that rv. 35 is an important and busy main roadway north-south in Buskerud. The Committee considers it appropriate to use planning means for the route, with a view to prioritisation in subsequent national transport plans. It is a pleasure that the rest of the committee in the last round joined this, but the voters have noticed who is at the forefront of this important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2216	It is a brand day when we today adopt the National Transport Plan for 2018-2029, which involves a cross-border transport lift in recent Norwegian history. For a telemarking with a heart for E134, there was also a big day in December 2015 when Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen announced that E134 was pointing out to a new main road between Austria and the West. With new tunnels over Haukeli we will have a significant cut in travel time and not least better stability in winter. An estimate shows that the expansion of E134 will be between 20 and 30 billion. kr. In Telemark we celebrate this message with wetcake. There are unlikely many people who have been working towards this goal for very many years. Today, the decision by the National Transport Plan states that E134 will be highly prioritised in the future. E134 is the most important route between east and west for us in the southern part of the country, and the business community in South Norway has been important drivers and support players in the political work that has led to this decision. Here, those who have had shoes, told of fresh ribs and other deliveries that have been stuck over the mountains in the winter, so when the NTP came, it is no wonder that it was a little disappointment that the first tunnel, Seljestad–Røldal, was not within the first planning period. It was mobilised from municipalities, county councils and interest groups to develop the building. It is with great joy the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in their comments that the plan for the section will soon be completed, so that the construction start can be earlier than what was in it, by allowing the toll contribution to be used first, so that the construction start of the first Haukeli tunnel can be within the first planning period. I have great confidence that the Minister for Transport will follow up this remark. In addition, in my home state it has been discussed a KVU for an arm to Bergen. I have the impression that there is a reasonable solution, but the time for doing the KVU is a little longer in time. I am pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party have in their remarks that we want a KVU to be developed for any arm to Bergen. This is undoubtedly a good day for all of us who have worked for the development of E134, as the important route it is between Austland and the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2227	As you know, I'm busy with the railway. For many years I've been here arguing for Follobanen. Now the work is well under way. It is built and drilled, with the aim of being finished by the end of 2021. That's very good. With 11 minutes from Ski to Oslo there will be a new everyday life for a lot of commuters, or 11 minutes from Oslo to Ski, because of course you can commute the other way too. But we must also build intercity. In the previous period, several representatives of today's rulers were very tall and dark, and they promised at a large intercity meeting that we had right behind here, that intercity would be finished in 2023. Today they say that it cannot be completed by 2030. It must then be very embarrassing for them, because, in the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023, the Stortinget entered for a goal of completed double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden and Ski by 2030. That's when I decided. That goal is now removed from the government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party. I think it's serious. We in the Workers' Party will bet on the railroad. We will build more modern railways and offer travellers more departures. We continue to work for double tracks at intercity, and we have to complete Follobanen. And we have 3 billion. kr more than the Government for Railway Development. There is one more thing – we also work for cross-border rail. In the Nordic Council, of which I am a member, we have prioritised Oslo–Goteborg–København in the railway venture. Then we can realize the 8 million city – a large bus and labour market. But I've realized that this is a patience job, because it's hard to find money for the Halden-frontier route with us and for the distance from the borders and beyond with the Swedish authorities. But we are forced to look at transport across borders, because in 2009 we had 3 500 freight trains – in 2014 there were less than 1000 freight trains. There are over 2,500 trailers over Svinesund every day. We have to do something about it. That is why I am very much in favour of creating a Nordic transport plan, and that we will have closer and better cooperation in the Nordic region when it comes to cross-border transport. We also support a KVU for that. But first we have to build intercity. I do not understand that the government parties and the supporting parties can stand here and boast all day, when they can't even achieve the goal of intercity by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2240	This is an interesting case to follow for one who sat on the Transport Committee in the previous period and participated in a similar debate four years ago. Now we have, among other things, heard the right hand of Astrup and the Grand Valley of the Advancement Party saying that they cannot rely on promises from the Workers' Party, for it is embarrassing overbidden policy, and that is raw populism. Yes, the shells are hailing, and the Stordalen is even waving to the Workers' Party with Monopoly money, smiling – is obviously very pleased with itself – and says that we are just presenting wish lists. Well, here at least there are people who know what they're talking about when it comes to wish lists and breaking promises. For four years, the Progress Party has been in government, and in the case of the promise that the drivers would see the word ‘free’ at each toll station, it is only to conclude that the promise has not been fulfilled. They were to take the fight against bureaucracy, or, in other words, it was to be cut in the large, useless bureaucracy, as they called it, and we can only note that the opposite has happened: the promise has not been fulfilled. Then I can leave the national level and go over to my own state, Hedmark. There were also promises before the elections, and the criticism against the Workers' Party, especially from the Right and the Advance Party, criticised that, for example. E16 Klöfta–Kongswinger did not get a continuous extension after the red-greens had built up Kongswinger–Slomarka. There were many reasons for that, but no one wanted to listen. According to the current NTP, further expansion should have started this year, and we were told that it was too late. We were just going to wait until they came to power, because then things were going to go on. But nothing has happened. Again, the promise has not been fulfilled. But what's worse is that now is the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party that the road, as they say, should be played into New Roads. Recorded – after what we have been informed, they have enough to do until 2021. This is probably an example of the fact that these lots are not in any way occupied by Hedmark, especially the Kongswinger region, because the road will now be waiting, without money, at New Roads, if these lots get what they want. They even try to sell it in as a victory. It's almost not to believe. We're going to build a lot of roads, and we're betting all over the country, said the Council of State, but it's just noticing that it doesn't apply to the region I'm from. I also noticed that the Council of State in its article used 7 of its 10 minutes to talk negatively about the red-green, especially the Working Party. In a familiar style he told me that nothing had happened during eight red-green years, but he has spent most of his time in all the posts the four years that have passed, so it did not come as a bomb. In the reply he could not answer questions from the representative Sivertsen, but he spoke about the Workers' Party. Yes, all eight times we were mentioned in just one minute. And he ended it all with a question instead of an answer. It says well about his own policy, and it should be noticed by the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2251	The national transport plan 2018-2029 has as its superior and long-term vision the creation of a safe transport system that promotes the creation of valuables and contributes to the transition to the low-carbon society. That's a wise vision. In Hordaland, a new road and path between Bergen and Voss is a project entirely in line with this vision. Those who use this road and travel by rail here will first of all have a safe transport system, so that they can travel without being afraid of the next accident, the next crash and the next life that will be lost. It's not that the Westerners here are particularly perplexed, but when there's a sign in the way where it says 'Don't stop, risk of race', you can think about it. It was the red-green government that started a concept evaluation for this stretch, in 2012. She was ready from the etats in April 2014, and in December 2015, after a year and a half, the department concluded with the option K5, which is to build road and track at the same time. In its NTP base document this was followed up as a tied project, starting in 2021, but the government did not find any room for prioritization. The excuses were many and bursting. They owed VAT error and toll basis; they again owed a crossroads in Arna. But it's not likely that 2 billion. kr to the railway in the West is sent to the east due to overshooting on the road. In Hordaland, it has been a great disappointment that the joint project E16 and Bergensbanen Arna–Stanghelle were postponed by the government. This is how construction starts only in 2024, and not in 2021, which the trade unions laid down. The government party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in its treatment in Stortinget, has not found room to add an extra crown to this project. The road shall be communicated by means of tolls while the railway is being postponed. The centre party will give priority to life and health first. We are clear on the following: the project will start in 2021, road and track will be built at the same time, and we will secure full funding during the planning period. A total of 5 billion. NOK are added to the first period – 2 billion. kr to runway and 3 brd. kr on the road. Then the construction start in 2021 is realistic, and completion in 2025-2026 will be possible. Common road and track expansion makes the K5 option cheaper because escape routes can be common. With a historically high rail transport budget, I think it's incomprehensible that not the Bergensbanen Arna-Stanghelle is in the first period of the NTP. The government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left write that they want to turn all the stones to find ways to get started faster. But it doesn't help to turn stones around about funding, and the political priority is absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2268	I was inspired to take the floor after hearing the Workers' Party's transport policy spokesperson in reply with the Minister for Transport and the subsequent article by party leader Jonas Gahr Støre. These two representatives, who aren't exactly anyone in the Workers' Party, were once freeing them when it came to showing them how they think. The representative Sivertsen sighed that the 30 billion savings. kr that New Weger expects to have by building smarter and cheaper, was not visible in cuts of government appropriations at national level. I understand that the Workers' Party will use reduced costs to cut the government's share in road financing, but we have more ambitions than that. We expect the savings of about 30 billion. kr shall benefit from the driver lists, either in the form of more road construction or in reduced tolling costs for the individual driver list. The representative Gahr Støre did not like that we think the Workers' Party is using magic wands to get funding in order, and Gahr Støre showed that it was the Progress Party that needed magic wands in 2013, when we wanted a twice as large a national transport plan. During the review of the current NTP in this room in 2013, the other parties tried to do as Gahr Støre – ridicule our high ambitions and offensive bets. Well, we didn't need any magic wand. We just had to show some action. With the Advance Party in position, we have now delivered an NTP that is about twice the size of the red-green presented in 2013. When the Progress Party has a hand on the steering wheel, we deliver. We double the level of ambition, and the increased appropriations come in the form of increased state resources – not through tolls and not through the use of magic wands or creative bookkeeping. I also noted that the leader of the Workers' Party is fully in line with the former transport spokesperson Eirin Sund. She is a fierce opponent of four fields and 110 km/h on the E39 Stavanger-Kristiansand, and Gahr Støre is in line with his local politicians in Stord in Hordaland, who work against the full four fields of road and 110 km/h on the E39 between Stavanger and Bergen. The representative Gahr Støre confirms that the budgeted savings of the Workers' Party will take the form of a reduced standard and that four fields and 110 km/h are unnecessary on many of our motorways. Gahr Støre shall have roses to be clear and clear on this. For the people of Rogaland, there is no longer any doubt. Four fields from Kristiansand to Bergen get one only on one vote at the Progress Party and Ketil Solvik-Olsen continues as Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2281	The government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have obviously agreed on a very good national transport plan. It's not a plan that solves all the problems in twelve years, but that manages to grip very many, and that has a progress that's far greater than what you've had before. This has not been lacking in plans in this country. I hear that the Workers' Party is talking about many of the things that this government is going to do, are also things they have planned. They should have taken into account that many of the plans have been planned for both 10, 20 and 30 years, without the Workers' Party having moved on to the earth. That's the difference -- actually, realising things is taking things a step further than just planning. In this debate I record that the Workers' Party is dissatisfied with a lot, but they have very few realistic alternatives to how things should have been done differently. The party leader and representative Gahr Støre felt that it was not problematic that the Workers' Party proposed ten times more things than what they themselves financed, because the Progress Party had also been very offensive in the opposition. That's right, but the difference is that the Progress Party said we'd use a little bit more oil money to finance this. That's not what the Working Party wants, because they think we're spending too much oil money. However, they submit projects for around 150 billion. NOK, but they do not contribute the money to finance them. That's what's cheating. That's what makes it unrelated. We might have a discussion about how we're going to spend our oil money. Then we can be honest about that. If the Workers' Party had said that they would take a little more from the Oil Fund, because then it would be fine, they would at least have financed their promises. But they haven't. I record that the Workers' Party also points out tolls – time and time again, free enough. They believe that the Progress Party should be able to cut tolls more than we have done. We have removed them on eight routes, and now there are 40 toll companies offering to cut the tariffs and increase the appropriations. That is what the Labour Party is against. If the representative Sønsterud believes this is very important – why is the Workers' Party opposed to cutting the toll they think should have been cut? So when the Workers' Party in its NTP will increase the toll on existing projects and will cooperate with SV, which will not only be involved, but will also introduce tolls on the road they will not build, the option for the voters out there is very clear: still a government that has put forward a national transport plan where the whole growth comes in increased appropriations and not through increased tolls – or an alternative where they do not know how to finance their own growth, in addition to guaranteeing that the tolls will rise, but not that the roads will come. I think most drivers think it is better to choose a government that does not increase the toll, but builds the road, than one that should have the tolls, but not build the road. In addition, when you know that during today's government and the majority of today's majority, car charges have fallen overall, you start to get a better balance for the drivers. They're involved in financing the roads, but they're no longer a dairy cow.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2297	There is a high potential for future value creation and new, profitable jobs across the country if the infrastructure is safe, good and efficient. This is why the Labour Party is committed to transport and digital infrastructure, with a clear prioritisation of the coast, collective and climate action, securing our roads and ensuring that everyone has access to high-speed networks. This is how we ensure future value creation, industrial development and profitable jobs across the country. I want to use the rest of my post to say something about NTP and Southland. I want to start by giving honey to the whole part of the country, both to business and politics, when one in advance of the previous NTP was able to gather on a clear priority, that is, the so-called Anchor, that is. Arendal-Tvedestrand, rv. 9, E39 Sägne–Lvgal – a good job, for which they have now received recognition and success. E39 Sägne–Lwigtal is among the roads with the highest heavy traffic load and one of the worst roads in the country. Therefore, I am very pleased that there is agreement on this project, and that it is now starting up. When you listen to the debate here today, with a history description that the Workers' Party has not done anything for the roads in the South, it is put in a strange light. The truth is that both of the two OPS projects developed – Grimstad-Kristiansand, completed in 2009, and Lvgal-Flekefjord, completed in 2006 – were adopted in the context of the 2002-2011 NTP, presented by and adopted by the Stoltenberg I Government in 2001, and the majority of the development has been done under the Stoltenberg II Government. In the current NTP, which was adopted under Stoltenberg II in 2013, the projects Arendal–Tvedestrand, new Varoddbru, Gartnerløkka and the start of Sägne–Lwigal are in place from 2018. We also received criticism at the time, in 2013, that we did not have a removal of Håøyflua in the important fairway into Farsund until 2018. Removal will have a major impact on current and interesting business development in Farsund. Then it becomes a little strange that those who raised that criticism at the time, today this project pushes out to the last period. The Workers' Party is committed to its promises from 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2312	For North Hordland and Northern Bergen there is one stretch of road that has been waiting for an extra time. For over 20 years, there has been an increase in traffic and the number of accidents, queues, corks and chaos, without the road section being resolved. E39 Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset is today with old, out-of-date plans. New, decent plans must be on the table before something can be done. In the local media it has been said that the road section was not included when the government party Right and the Progress Party and the supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party in our present proposal to the national transport plan, but it is all so that in order for one to start construction, one must first know what one is going to build. The lack of operational power has caused the tunnel to be suspended for so many years that he was completely out of date, and I think that many people have to take part in the debt because a new road has not come in place long ago. But I now experience great will, both from the government and not least locally, to be constructive and to ensure rapid planning for a new solution. I am also pleased to see that there is a joint committee that refers to the need for rapid planning here and that it needs to be planned in conjunction with Arna–Wågsbotn, which is currently part of the E16. I record that the Workers' Party has chosen to add an additional comment where they say that it should be possible with an even earlier start of construction. It would be great if there was something specific they pointed out, but unfortunately, according to what I can see, there is a standard phrase that has been inserted into a series of other projects as well, without a single extra crown. And when everything comes first, without it being shown how you intend to solve it, it can be difficult to perceive as something other than an empty promise. During the large-scale period, the Government and the Cooperation Party have overfilled the national transport plan with a good margin. Decease is reversed to renewal on both road and rail, where the maintenance maintenance drivage now goes down. And when it comes to the E39 Wågsbotn–Klauvaneset, a new trajectory of all must be planned first, and then the line must be built. The right hand goal is to keep working, as we've done these four years, and we're going to overfill the upcoming NTP as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2327	First of all, congratulations on the day of all those who have cheered on the North Island Road! Many people today deserve a great thank you for having successfully fought the project. So to the government's efforts to create larger and more robust housing and labour regions, which are reflected in both the municipal reform and the government's great commitment to transport. As a sunmer with a desire for a larger and more efficient housing and working region around the region centre Ålesund, I am now very pleased that Nordøyvegen is now finally to be realized. The link will provide continental connections to around 2 900 people and link them closer to around 10 000 inhabitants of the municipalities of Haram and Sandøy. Together with the municipalities of Skodje and Ørskog, Haram and Sandøy will be an important part of what will shape and create a new and larger housing and working region in and around the new Ålesund municipality. Here, Nordøyvegen is an important and good grant. On such a joyous day for the North Island Road, it is worth recalling that there are many years of fighting behind the project with two underwater tunnels and bridges to tie Lepsøy, Haramsøy, Longva, Vjørtoft and Harøy together with Haram mainland. For a long time, the North Islands have been characterised by gradual deportation. At the same time, there has been an offensive economic development, with enterprises supplying equipment to the maritime industry. Today, it is a major disadvantage for both residents and businesses that the two ferry connections serving the islands often have a long time between departures, as well as being night-riding. Many who have moved from or are related to the islands have said that they want to move back if there is a continental connection. It so long darkened to find the final financing key. Only after the Government has amended the legislation on ferries release solvents and with the extension of the time-frame for ferry subsidies from 20 to 40 years, can one now finally put the spade in the soil. Today, the two ferry services that frequent the North Islands will contribute a total of 30 million. kr over 40 years. The fact that the government made this positive change will help to ensure that several major ferry relief projects can be carried out. Building more major coastal housing and work regions will help to strengthen districts. North Island Road will replace two little decent ferry connections. It will help to make the beautiful pearl chain of small islands made up of the North Islands much more attractive as a residential area. In addition to fixed road connections and a more flexible transport system for both businesses and individuals currently living in the North Islands, Nordøvegen will contribute to population growth and facilitate increased tourism in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2340	I have also been the case rapporteur for Dokument 8:143 S for 2016–2017, representative of the representative of Groningensrettel Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on urban environmental agreements. There has been a great deal of agreement in the committee that we should run these ten issues in one debate, and I think the Stortinget is happy about that. I hope you keep track of all the proposals that will be voted on, because I have lost track of that a long time ago. Marianne Marthinsen was a shorthand inside Oslopackak 3 and the agreement between these parties, and as I mentioned in my post, there were some parties that were there from the beginning, and that have been there all along. It's the Right Party, the Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and then the SV and the Advance Party have been out and in of this cooperation. Both the Progress Party and SV, not only the Oslo part of the Progress Party, were in the beginning, in 2006. But what's the point is that one of the pillars that they came to an agreement at all was the E18 West Corridor. And if anyone feels that the agreement is broken, I would say that the responsibility for any breach of agreement must lie with the City Council that did not bring the story into the negotiations. But I don't understand that we're there, because, after all, it's all agreed on this. And now taking out the E18 West Corridor, it was agreed in 2012, because such a large package would have killed the whole package. There was more room for action for what was left in the package to take out the two major projects. So a little visit to Tor André Johnsen, since he was in on the fee profile of what's there. It's not like you're going to get the same rate in all of the passes. The fact that you, for example, To pay for both roads, you halve the fares – when it is the same price as driving one road. If you put down more trees, there will be discounts that will make you not get up to the max rate. The point of adding more trees and more collection is that more people are going to be in and divide by the value, and that it's not going to be like that, that only 27 pst. of those who actually benefited from the projects paid. There are some very interesting parts of this NTP, and it's about international relations. There has been a recurring question of how badly international relations have actually been treated in former NTPs. In this NTP, seven corridors are defined out of the country that bind this together, and are located among others. Oslo–Stockholm, Oslo–Gøteborg and Ofotbanen. What's on it is, I guess, getting the Swedes to join the deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2353	In More and Romesdal, we need an offensive road policy. Many in the county were probably disappointed by the lack of priorities in the proposal for NTP. The mortar axis is an important project that will bind our county together. Getting started faster with the project than the government plans will mean a lot for people and not least for business. The central party will therefore make a proposal that the Storting should have a proposal for funding for treatment before the end of 2020. This allows the project to start faster than the government has planned, and this will mean a lot. I would also like to stress how positive it would be if the crossing of the Halsaford could be carried out as a pilot project that other fjord crossings along the coast could later benefit. We are also discussing today a proposal on the financing of fv. 659 North Island Road. This is a happy day! A bridge connection and three subsea tunnels shall be established to provide a road link between Lepsøya, Haramsøya, Flemsøya, Vjørtofta and Harøya, which will be North Island Road. The road will also provide a continental connection for 2,900 people out on the islands and contribute to a positive development of this region and bind the municipality of Sandøy and Haram. The project is also a good example of the importance of holiday relief to achieve more efficient coastal transport. In the revised national budget, the Centre Party has proposed that these funds should also be used to cover capital costs for such projects. It is a proposal that will improve the arrangements, which will allow several holiday-resolution projects to be realised in parts of the country. County roads are an important part of our road network, and those running on a road don't care much if they're running on a national or county road. They're running on a road. It is therefore important that we be able to stop and reduce the decay of the county road network. I'm happy to belong to a party that says just this, a party that has threatened that the county can be good veigerators if economic resources are put in place. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes a 10-year maintenance programme for the county road network in the municipal proposition. In the NTP, we're increasing the frame for racial protection on county roads, and we're increasing the frame for tunnel protection on county roads. These are important proposals and measures that will pick up the maturity and reduce the problem of different quality of our national and county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2368	The centre batch has long called for a bet on the county roads of NTP. The Central Party is concerned that the maintenance seat run is large and that the current appropriations are not large enough to operate sufficient maintenance and repair of the county road network. If one takes into account the figures presented by the KS in the hearing of the Municipal Proposition, there is an annual need of between 1.5 billion. kr and 2 br. kr to maintain the standard of the day. Good highways are necessary for inland transport and a prerequisite for the further development of business and the maintenance of jobs throughout the country. In the allocation frameworks under the national transport plan, the county road network is not included, but it is an essential part of the infrastructure. The Central Party is concerned that these roads are not given higher priority. A separate bet on the county roads is necessary if you have an ambition for a complete commitment to transportation. South Trondelag has eight times more county roads than national roads, and the county council is completely dependent on increased frameworks, which we in the Center Party suggested in the municipal proposition. The center batch is on a ten-year maintenance program, where we're adding an increase of 1.5 billion. kr per year in the municipal proposition. We have also added an additional 600 million to the revised national budget. kr, including race protection and tunnels. The pipeline from Hamar to Støren has an important function when it comes to the transport of goods within the country. The red-green government granted money to investigate the electrification of the Røros Railway. An electrification will make the railway more competitive for transport between parts of the country. This will lead to more environmentally friendly freight transport and to a reduction in congestion routes for heavy goods transport. The centre part therefore prioritizes the start of electrification on the Rørosbanen during the second period. It is important for the Centre Party that this project be implemented as soon as possible, as this is a measure that will make freight traffic both more efficient and more environmentally friendly. Getting good solutions on the road is also important for passenger transport. The centre party believes that two hours of frequency on the Dovrebanen Trondheim-Oslo is an important collective measure that will ensure that several travellers can use trains on the whole or part of the route. This has already been investigated in the potential study of the Dovrebanen and Raumabanen, developed by the Railway Forums of the routes. The centre party sees it as absolutely necessary to set up a railway that can relieve air traffic between Oslo and Trondheim. The route Værnes-Gardermoen is among the routes with the most passengers in Europe. By getting a solution by train that gets cheaper for the travellers, and that goes more often and faster, this will relieve large parts of the air traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2379	One of the great things of our time is the fight against extremism. Tor André Johnsen took it to new heights today when he spoke of toll extremism. His great cause is obviously the fight against toll-toll extremism. Let me also say a few words about Oslopackak 3 and the revision of it, which we also have to deal with today as one of many issues we are now debating together with the National Transport Plan. Some decades ago, local and regional politicians in Oslo and Akershus saw that they had to do something about the traffic situation in the capital city area. We got Oslopackak 1 or just the Oslopackak, as it was originally hot, which was a package for the development of the main road system in the Oslo area. Then we got Oslopackak 2, which was a package for the development of public transport. And then we got Oslopackak 3, which was an overall plan, a complete package, for the development of the transport system in the capital region, and now also the operation of public transport is inside. Now I see that Tor André Johnsen has gone, but there is reason to recall that the Progress Party has been against all these packages, and the Progress Party has been against all the actions carried out in Oslo and Akershus as part of those packages. Had the Progress Party reached with the resistance to the three Oslo packages, we had still been in line down the Vålerenga or in line over the City Hall. Most of us are both a little bit of drivers and a little bit of collective travel. That's the whole point, we have to see it in context. It's not either road or public transport, we have to have a little bit of both. In recent years, there has been a major improvement in the collective offer in Oslo and Akershus. Why is that? Well, because money from the bombing is now being used for the operation of public transport. Of course, it was the Progress Party against it. We should be happy that it has not been the Progress Party that has decided this in Oslo and Akershus in recent years, but that there have been other parties that have led the development, as Nils Aage Jagstad also pointed out. In the end, I would like to say that one of the road sections that are now to be built – or “parcel” – I think I can almost call it, because it is not a big piece – as part of Oslopackakt 3, is the so-called bypass in Nittedal, the one called rv. 4 Kjul-Rotnes. First, the Minister of Transport said that he would not contribute his share, 20 p.m., but a unanimous Committee on Transport now decides that the State should contribute its 20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2396	Today, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party ensure a majority for the current movement in my part of the country. We have already delivered a triple in the period that we are about to leave behind. In the north, we have an enormous potential for growth, but distances are creating some challenges. It's about getting out the billions of seafood, minerals and goods, and it's about strengthening the development of nutrition for more secure jobs in North Norway. We'll probably pass 100 billion soon. kr in the export value for Norwegian seafood. Much is due to our ability to deliver quality all the way out to the market, not just increased volume. Then it is important that the transport possibilities are good all the way to where the value is created, so that the products can get out more quickly to the customers. That is why we have significantly increased direct appropriations for the county roads and are continuing to escalate in today's transport plan. In addition, we have given more to our national roads, and we have now achieved a necessary boost for the future as well. Our main voyage veins shall be better maintained and increased year-on-year availability shall be provided. This has not always been the case, for example, when fishing trailers have to drive 72 miles detour via Finland because the Wage Mountain is once again closed and parts of the country are practically divided into two. Then it is very gratifying that we now deliver the start of the tunnel today. When the E10 on Hålogaland is extended and shortens the driving time from Sortland to Evenes airport by almost 45 minutes, it is very happy to see that we deliver the start of the first part today. This despite the fact that the project has increased by many billions in costs. On the next roll, we'll see the whole project together. E8 into Tromsø is another example, and together with the race protection promise in the transport plan and 40 years of holiday relief, we have in practice also started the Ullsfjord connection. In addition, we announce the start of KVU into Tromsø, which includes the Tin Tunnel. That's how we cut down distances from Tromsø and northwards towards Finnmark, and with several tens of kilometers we connect the new region. In Tromsø, we continue to raise public transport and provide opportunities for more environmentally friendly transport, which can relieve a rapidly growing city. There are a number of examples. So we have delivered a historic offensive plan that is now actually confirmed when the reaction from the opposition is that the plan is too offensive. However, they add additional projects without additional funds. And the representative Sivertsen and the Workers' Party's mantra during the linecode exchange is that we have to get control of the costs. It causes one to shake on the head, because the answers and the specific content are completely absent. We hear little about their actions and what could improve the situation. They don't come up with their own solutions. The whole point of a transport plan is precisely to prioritise within an economic framework. When the rapporteur in Tromsø is cheering for the Labour Party's city-vote speech, the same money has to be allocated to several cities. It'll be cut, no more money. That is why I look forward to the voters revealing this transport option for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2411	The West is in a demanding period, where the need for conversion as a result of the decline in offshore industries is evident. The industry will continue to be important to the West for many years, but we have probably reached the top and have to change from today's situation, where much of social development is based on rich access to a limited resource. The Western world has a lot of resources and opportunities ahead, but we probably need to create the values ourselves and be attractive to the outside world. It requires better mobility, with short travel distances for both business and labour. In this situation, it is more important than ever to put in place a functional E39 between Bergen and Stavanger as quickly as possible. This government is building paths for future growth and development. Therefore, it is of course just as right to build an effective four-field road between Norway's second-largest urban areas as the major roads in the East. A major road link will not only bring the West closer together. It will also provide competitive conditions for developments that benefit the whole country. This is well documented in socio-economic analyses, among others. Victor Norman at the Norwegian School of Commerce and Torger Reve at the BI School of Business. I am pleased that we have an offensive government that sees this, and that opens up alternative funding for the Hordfast project and an early start to this project in the first planning period. The aim must be for the project to start in 2021–2022. The government will now take a decision on the municipal sub-plan which has been consulted and, in NTP, has sent a marshaller to the State Road Administration to significantly reduce costs and to invest in cost-effective and conventional solutions. There is reason to ask questions about whether the development of the Hordfast project has been delayed by the fact that it has also been part of the major investigation work called the Free-Freight E39, which concerns the whole route. This work has been shown to be very extensive with e.g. 20-30 doctoral exposures within many fields. Here, too, are the broad assessments of possible future spectacular solutions to fjord crossovers, which are certainly well ahead of us in time. All right, but this must not delay realistic projects like Hordfast. It's time to get back to well-known, good and reasonable solutions, so that we can soon get a clarification of the solution of the E39 Hordfast. The Hordfast and Rogfast projects stand in a special position by linking Norway’s second largest urban areas with a forward-looking business, which is very important for the value creation of the nation. For many years I have been speaking warmly for this project from this pulpit. It is a pleasure that we have now got the project into the NTP with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2424	In Buskerud, the expectations of the national transport plan were high, not least because of the many promises made by the Minister of Transport, both before and in the government. Buskerud has, like other states, its challenges. In Ringerijk, Ringeriksbanen and E16 are at the top of the wish list. Large urban development and industrial development plans depend entirely on a good infrastructure. In addition, the Ringerix Railway is a project of national importance, and clear promises have been made about early start-up. The Bushman County is shooting at 3.2 billion. kr to ensure parallel development of road and track. Some were concerned about the recording from the floors, because regardless of the cost framework, there were some of the promised projects for which there was no room, and the Ringerix Railway was one of them. When NTP arrived, the track was exposed, with construction start 2021/2022. Now the committee says, after strong pressure from Buskerud, construction start in 2021, but later than that. Governments said planning was delayed, but that is not true. It's on track. The working party wants the government to return to Stortinget with its own plan for completion of intercity development, with the completion of all projects by 2030. The Ringerix track shall also be included. A taboo for the Minister of Transport is continuous road construction. We thought it also applied to Rv. 23 from Oslofjord to E18, but at that time one, even though the Right for several choices since then launched the slogan «Riksvej 23 on one, two, three». Now it is added up to two to three years between the stages Dagslett-Linnes and Linnes-E18. The Working Party believes that the two stages must be built in the context. In 2015, Solvik-Olsen was on tour in Drammen, with the local group leader of the Progress Party. There was no way how much money there was for the Drammen. Then came NTP, and Buskerud City Package 2 collapsed like a card house. New necessary Holmenbru is included, but to be partly paid with tolls – against which the Progress Party locally is opposed – and the partners in the Busker urban cooperation had thought of more environmentally friendly transport solutions in an area that is suffocating by car traffic. A new run in the Stroemsåstunnel is suspended and provided that it is partly financed by the same local tolls. Fortunately, a unanimous committee has introduced an important premise of two trains an hour to Hokksund as the first step on the stage towards Kongsberg, but it was not included in the proposals of the Council of State. It wasn't Rv either. 35, as I note that Mr Werp from Buskerud, for some remarks, pointed out that the majority parties have now secured, but he was pleased to note that that remark – because it is a note, not money – has been submitted by a unanimous committee. The drama is going to get a new hospital, but where are the ambulances going? It is pointless to build a new hospital without access roads, said Solvik-Olsen in 2015, it will enter the NTP in 2017. But where's the money? Another lifting break from that edge, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2439	I noticed that even today the Council of State did not comment on the lack of focus on the coast of the NTP, other than that I heard the hint of a little laughter as I kept my post, but it was too low to be referred to as cheerfulness in the hall. Anyway, in order to further demonstrate the level of ambition of the government when it comes to the shipment of goods to sea and track, I will refer from the proposal to the NTP: ‘The Government has the ambition to transfer 30 pst. of goods over 300 km from road to sea and track by the end of the planning period.» Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘In order to achieve such a large volume of freight transport, comprehensive economic instruments and investments will be needed in addition to those proposed in this Communication.’ Here the government admits that they can't meet the 30 pst target. by 2030 if you follow the message that the government itself has provided. As if this isn't bad enough, they also numerically attach it: ‘The effect of the proposed measures in the notification is intended to be approximately 30 pst. of the potential of 7 million. tonnes from road to sea and track.’» [[...]] This means that with the measures presented by the government in the NTP, they will achieve about one third of the 30 pst target. by 2030. Then it is not surprising that KS Business Port also believes that maritime transport should be a stronger priority. Today I have my last chance to return after four years of complaint and accusations of various kinds concerning the U-864. The representatives of Halleraker from the Right and Blackevik from the Party of Advancement, who are no longer in contact with us, were particularly keen. They were actually standing in this hall and guaranteed to lift the submarine missile with its contents. Then there was a change of government, and what happened? The State Council of Solvik-Olsen took over the responsibility of the Progress Party, and it became silent – silent. Now I know that this is not part of the NTP, but it is absolutely part of the Minister of Transport's portfolio – and it was incredibly good to be told!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2466	This national transport plan is a record effort on trains. Left's glad we're going to be in. It's time for us to invest properly in infrastructure and new train sets. The distance between Hamar and Lillehammer is 15 billion. kr until 2029 for double-track delivery to Lillehammer by 2034. It is an incredibly important effort for the Inland, especially in the interior, but also on the national route to Trondheim. Part of this is also the Inland Goods Package, i.e. a further 6,5 billion. kr, which is important for the whole country. We have a great opportunity to move goods from road to track. This applies to timber, but also to salmon and other fish, and to other products that are not properly busy. It is important to build and electrify the Solørbahnen–Kongswingerbanen and get rid of the Alna terminal, because not all goods need to enter Oslo. Much of it's going to Sweden, and we have to get speed on the goods that are going in that direction. For Gjøvikbanen part one can ask the question: What would have happened to it without the Left? Did it grow again? At least there was a desire to reduce the distance from the year and northwards at the end of the 1990s. With a Minister of Transport from the Left, it was exposed to competition, as the first route. We've learned from that, and today's railway reform is part of that lesson. On Gjøvikbanen there are several crossing tracks. The Council of State must be commended for having done a great deal with the power supply and other maintenance on the Gjøvik track, but the Left has also contributed appropriations to that end. From the fall, there are also new train sets. For a student city like Gjøvik, which is growing rapidly, this offer is particularly important for the young population. In the case of the red-green parties, in particular the Workers' Party, a double-tracking effort was stopped at Hamar in 2009. It's actually ten lost years, and that one takes two billion. kr from the freight package and expects to speed it up by four years and come to Lillehammer in 2034, sounds like a little adventure. In addition, it is also necessary to turn funds out of the Inland, and when the Workers' Party is investing in marine nutrition and moving funds to the West, there is little left to change and investment in the Inland and on the green shift in the mainland, and that package of goods is definitely part of it. I would also like to mention the E16 in Valdres, where the Left has been a driver for us to start as close as possible to the Payers and get past the Feners in the tunnel. It lengthens the Ferenes and the whole Valdres after. So the billions we're going to spend there, we're going to have to spend early from the Payers and the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2483	In Uppland we have several roads that bind the country together. Therefore, road appropriations cannot be measured only in terms of area or population. One of the clearest messages we have heard from the government parties before the NTP was launched was that roads should be built in context – not in part and in part, but in context. It's easy to agree with. Therefore, it was with great surprise that we got an NTP where the continuation of the E6 through the Gudbrands valley was not included. There's a new E6 plot of 33 km open. It's good and makes the journey through the Gudbrand valley safer both for people and for fish. The tolls required shall cover the further expansion and there was a clear premise that the extension should be continued. Yes, it's actually that it's built a bridge that ends in nothing. So the plans to build in context have become – yes, nothing. The same applies to E16 in Valdres, where a short distance is reset, so that a very necessary upgrade of the road standard will not apply to a continuous route. Intercity has suffered the same fate. For the route towards Lillehammer, the Council of State of the NTP states: Planning the route northwards from Åkersvika in line with the milestones of the NTP does not initially require that funds be allocated to work on the regulatory plan during the first planning period. It is difficult to understand that you can complete an extension in 2034 without the plan work starting in the first part of the period. Here I will challenge the Council of State to explain how this is linked. Finally, the Gjøvik track has not received much attention in the plan, nor by the majority of the Committee. A course in which the driving time is twice as long as the driving time on the track on the other side of the Roman rickshaw, had deserved a greater attention. It has not helped to put the Gjøvik track off for competition. The Gjøvik track has also lost attention as a subject of competition. As a close link to the metropolitan region, it clearly has a great importance in relieving the capital, so that people can live outside the city center. Therefore, work needs to be started to clarify where and how the path will develop in the future. Those who commute daily to Oslo deserve it, and spend a very long time getting to and from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2501	The representatives of Stensland and Sundbø Abrahamsen have previously been in the Chair and expressed their satisfaction at the fact that E134 Seljestad–Røldal now, after the committee reading, is safe to start in the first scheduled period. I read in a comment from the Transport Committee, where the majority ‘shows that priority is given to state resources to start construction of new tunnels on E134 over Haukelifjell in the second part of the planning period. The majority believe that this expansion is essential for achieving a good and safe E134 between the East and the West with good success throughout the year. The majority refer to the possibilities for accelerating construction start-ups based on local policy decisions and the pre- or parallel collection of tolls. The majority have noticed that such a willingness is present, which may accelerate start-up by several years.’» It's just that the comment I've just referred to is four years old. And those who were behind them were the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. At the 2013 NTP treatment, only the Progress Party was opposed. Then I wonder if the representative Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen has a little too good faith in the Minister of Transport we now have, when she said instead that she has great confidence that the Minister of Transport will follow up this remark. Well, I haven't seen that the plural comment from 2013, at the treatment of NTP, about getting the same thing, has been followed up. In reality, we have had four lost years when it applies to Seljestad–Røldal. The government has pointed to E134 as a future major route between the west and east of South Norway. Me and the Labour Party support it, and I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports a reclassification of Rv. 23 to E134, so that the latter can connect in the east to the E6 at the Vassum Cross. But it's disappointing that not the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left now will go for a KVU to get a future arm out from E134 to Bergen, and that both the Hordalands diagonal and the Sunnhordlands diagonal can then be distributed. The east-west statements we've had, and it's starting to become a part now, all of us clearly point out that such an arm to Bergen will greatly increase the useful value of E134.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2513	I need to remind you that the increased rate of trade we have had in this period is, in fact, on a proposal from the Stoltenberg government in 2013. When you hear the debate today, it may sound as if the Right Party government has drawn up its own NTP plan, but that is not the case. In broadband, it's good to finally do something about the digging costs, which hopefully gives you cheaper development. But this alone will not make the unprofitable projects profitable, as this government believes. For almost four years, the Right Party government has not raised the unprofitable projects, and there has been a very straightforward clarification today that they will not do so in the next few years either. That's what people should bring into the election year. I am very pleased that a joint committee will contribute government appropriations to the airports at both Bodø and Mo in Rana. It is also gratifying to want a quick start to the Mo airport, and to open up local funds for a shooting. This is an overall committee, so we're looking forward to progress. We're a little bit in disagreement about how much the state's contribution is going to bring in. Here, the Workers' Party and the Centre believe that it is a state responsibility to finance and operate the airport. It is also good that an overall committee will maintain the airport structure on Helgeland. So I would like to send a thank you to Right Odd Henriksen, who led us through the transport campaign in Northernland, which shows that Stoltenberg's transport plan has produced results. It is also good that an overall committee will complete the E6 Helgeland north up to Saltberg now and not wait for six to ten years, as the government proposes. That would give an increase in cost of an estimated 230 million. kr. In the case of E6 Helgeland South, Kappskarmo-Brattås-Lien, it is important that this will start in 2018. I find it disappointing that this clarification could not be considered today – that we have to wait for the annual budgets. Then to the coast bet. Here there is a great distinction between the NTP proposal and the Labour Party proposal. The government is failing the coast and the investment in fairways and fishing ports. They have only three and a half ports in the first six years. This is dramatic for the coast, and we'll do something about it. That's why we've accelerated many of the projects and increased the total appropriation by 4.9 billion. kr. Finally, I am also concerned about the increased charges for goods by rail. Here is a proposal to increase the road charges. It will affect several businesses, not least on the Northern Railway to Rana Gruber. This is going in the wrong direction if you want more goods on the track and sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2532	Today’s NTP, which is no longer valid until today, is about 500 B.C.E. kr, while the one we're now going to adopt, is going to be over 1000 billion. kr. There's a massive investment in infrastructure, and then especially on the road and the track. As far as the road is concerned, I want to bring forward another significant historical act that the Right Party government, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, has taken, namely the establishment of New Roads. We constantly have to fight over small or large road projects to get them into the NTP. They come in, and they fall out again. It's a very short-term, expensive, uneconomical, rational and inefficient way of building roads. New roads, which we have established, should challenge the established ones. They're going to think economy, they're going to think whole, they're going to think road safety, they're going to think efficiency, and they're going to think long-term. Already now we see that this way of organizing road construction is a success. New roads build both cheaper and faster. For the time being, it looks like you can save 30 billion dollars. kr on the portfolio for which they have been responsible. There's no reason to hold back on a success that we see works. Of course, a company that has new products, which sells well, will increase production and make the most of it. For our own part, it is important that New Roads are given responsibility for new four-field highways and European roads. In this context, both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in this NTP signal that we already want to give priority to, for example. E16 into New Roads and look at the portfolio. When we talk about E16 – both representatives Sverre Myrli, Lasse Juliussen and Tone Merete Sønsterud have been critical of the government there. Swearing Myrli took the historical perspective that it has taken a very long time to build E16 – that the planning started more than 20 years ago. Yes, unfortunately, it has been the typical working party-mode to plan and build roads on. It's about building approx. six miles by four-field highway, which would take almost half a generation. Such a way of building roads we don't want. That's exactly why we wanted to record New Roads for E16. Swearing Myrli said it's incomprehensible that we're postponing and not going to finish the road, but that's exactly what we want to avoid by playing E16 into New Roads. In fact, in today's NTP, the construction of the last parcel on the E16, which is in Akershus, would not begin before 2023. If we're given the E16 to New Roads by 2021, everything is ready for us to get started before 2023, which is today's goal for the Red-Greens. Otherwise, when it comes to how the Workers' Party is going to finance E16, we're back to the beginning of the debate, and then we have to rediscover Harry Potter's magic wand, because they don't finance the projects they claim they're going to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2545	Several infrastructure projects are the cross-political consensus on in Møre and Romesdal. The location of the ship's tunnel and the moor axis are among them. Of course, the working party also goes in to support the construction of Nordøyvegen. It's a very long-term project that will tie our state even closer together. But I think the Labour Party has greater ambitions than the Government for More and Romesdal. Large parts of our business are related to the sea. We will facilitate more fishing and aquaculture, shipping and maritime activities along the coast. Thus, we prioritise and promote a range of coastal measures that are either not priority or deferred to the second half, where funding is much more uncertain by the government. Our priorities include: Fosnavåg and Gjøsund fishing ports, Hjerøysundet in Molde and Ringholmen in Aure. We believe that the government in this period has failed the coast. Now a promise must be made, so that the business community in More and Romesdal will have the framework conditions and the infrastructure needed to create high values and ensure the construction and employment of the future. In addition to the coast, the Labour Party is committed to safety along the roads of More and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane. We're taking rv. 15 The strenuous mountain in our option, and we are advancing important tailor-made projects from the last to the first six-year period. It shall apply, inter alia, to: E39 Skorgedalen and rv. 70 Flatvadura and Hoelsand. Steps create insecurity for both the population and business, and the need to make roads safer. Furthermore, climate, collective and environmental measures are very important for the Workers' Party. More and Romsdal need a collective vow. Therefore, we will expand the urban environment packages to cover several urban areas, including: Eelsund. If we're going to be able to use the whole country in the future, it's not only necessary to make good progress, it's also absolutely crucial with a shift for digital infrastructure in the districts if we're to avoid a digital class distinction between city and country. The working party will spend 500 million. kr of the year on extension in the districts. There are ten times more than the government proposed to broadband in the 2016 state budget. This will benefit More and Romesdal. The working party's goal is an attractive and forward-looking More and Romsdal that are characterized by growth, housing and a world-class business. It is a political task to facilitate, and there the Labour Party has far more ambitions than the government – even when it comes to transport and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2556	This is a big day for large parts of business, which has repeatedly clearly expressed what is important to strengthen competitiveness, especially in a challenging time as it is now. There are three things: transportation, transportation and transportation. Many transport projects could be mentioned, but in this context I will focus on, among other things. E39, with Hafast, the Moorax, and the Nilsaford. For South Sunnmare, Hafast is very important for that maritime cluster there. Furthermore, the new export route across the Stryne Mountain is important, with an arm to the Geiranger World Heritage site, such as winter and race wear. But last and not least, the holiday relief project to the Møre and Romsdal states, the North Island Road, is a pleasure to be able to give starter signals to now. Few have probably been on more than the Frank Sve of the Progress Party for the realization of this project. Congratulations to all of these! This record effort in today's NTP will be very useful for countries, people and businesses, as opposed to the Workers' Party and SV's infrastructure airlocks, where even tolls will be paid on projects that are not to be implemented. It's almost so one shouldn't think it was possible. There is reason to be glad that the maintenance run has now been reduced, for the first time in a very long time. With the red-green government, there was one thing you could guarantee, and it was that the lag did not become a priority, with decay in the road standard across the country as a result. In spite of the fact that they put in a plural government and could do exactly what they wanted, there were plans – unrealized plans, for the funding lacked. An example of this government cutting through is the City Ship Tunnel, which, after nearly 20 events, is now starting planning. In total, today's NTP, with the Right-front party government and our good partners, is very good. So some words to the representative Fredrik Holen Bjørdal, who will give priority to the coast. He here claims from the pulpit that this government is failing the coast. Then I just want to remind the representative that the Fosnav port was in the previous period, and whoever else than the Labour Party was what took these resources, as it was very regrettablely moved. So the question is who's failing. At least it's not this government. The Labour Party was able to ensure that this important port expansion was not of any concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2571	In reading posts and in radio debates, the Workers' Party has been running on the fact that North Norway is the loser in the government's transport bill. There has been no way of how the Progress Party and the Right have invested in the central eastern region and forgotten North Norway. So what is the truth? Well, the truth is that North Norway's share of national road investment has gone from 14.6 p.m. under the Working Party to 20,8 pst. But the truth is that we haven't forgotten the other parts of the country. In dollars, we have doubled the amount. We're building the country. Now we are presenting the NTP of the times, and in a good way compared to the annual budgets – yes, a whole of 50 pst. increase since the previous NTP. Minister for Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen has, in fact, introduced a new era in transport policy. Investment is being made in new road projects, road projects are being accelerated, and the railway operation is formidable, just seeing how the Salt Pendant, between Saltdal, Fauske and Bodø, has become an effective collective solution. It is not only these areas where Solvik-Olsen delivers, but also ‘New City – New Airport’ in Bodø, and not least the new major airport at Hauan at Mo in Rana, the first major regional airport in Norway since 1975, i.e. over 40 years ago. I was so lucky that I was allowed to be with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left and present consensus between the four parties at Mo in Rana. There we agree to facilitate construction start-ups as soon as possible, i.e. to receive the soil spade early in the first period of the NTP, which runs from 2018 to 2024. We want to do that with three political levers: it's estimated that up to 600 million. kr of funds from the municipality and private business can give start-up as soon as possible. A dialogue shall be established with local parties on an agreement providing a basis for local co-financing and finalisation with government funds during the second period. Alternative financing of the project is open through, for example: development contracts and public-private cooperation. Of course, such funding is to be approved by Stortinget. Northern Ireland has three equal regions. Just as Evenes creates competitiveness for the North State and Bodø Salten Airport, a large airport in Helgeland will provide completely new opportunities for growth and value creation and the population of Helgeland. The issue is that this region has a business that is among the most potent in the country: a growing sea food industry on the coast, one of the largest industrial clusters in the interior and a tourism industry, which has enormous potential in Helgeland, which deserves as good competitive conditions as the rest of the country. The big defect is a good flight offer, which is also going to be in place during this period. It is about the fact that most people in this region will also have access to a market-based offer with large planes and low fares. I am mildly impressed by the professional work done by the business community, represented at the Polar Circle Airport Development, PLU, and the municipalities to provide a new airport. This may be my last post in this room, and then I'm glad that this particular case has a happy outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2590	Rogaland does not benefit from any kind of transport promise from this government. Of course, I am glad that Rogfast, a lot of late, is now settled in Stortinget, but in addition to that, there has been very little in Rogaland of the promises made by the Advance Party in the 2013 election campaign. We are behind us for four years with a lot of big talk and little or no new concrete projects. Double tracks on the Jærbanen – in the blue, new E39 to the South – yes, one has no idea which trasé to build, rv. 13 is forgotten, and E134 is not new projects in Rogaland either. Much more perceptive than what has not happened in the last four years is that the new plan does not include any new major projects in Rogaland for the next six years. E39, Hove–Ålgård, is pushed out on time, the Haukeli tunnels, E134, are pushed out on time, and creative toll jumping in the setting doesn't change this. The Minister of Transport and the government have forgotten Rogaland. However, I shall commend the Minister for Transport in one area, and that is that he has carried out an excellent marketing work for his own excellence for four years. The NHO Rogaland and the Stavanger-Region Federation smile from ear to ear in the fact that we are ten years old without new major projects in Rogaland. No one wants to mark the Minister of Transport's record on tolls better than people in Rogaland. During this period, the Minister for Transport has sent a toll bill of 44,4 billion. I'm going to Rogaland. There's almost $100,000 in new tolls in the last four years of people in Rogaland. I don't think that's what one saw when the Progress Party promised it would be on the sign for free. The representative Steffensen is talking about a magic wand. That's what he meant. So I will also address the question of extending the national tourist road in Jären to start in Flekkefjord and to consider linking national tourist road in Jären with the national tourist road in Ryfylke. This has been discussed with the Minister for Transport. He hid behind the bureaucrats and answered no, no, no. I am pleased that, in connection with the travel news, Stortinget has said that one should consider new routes and changes in national tourist routes. The centre game will continue to fight for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2603	The two-field highway was to be built from Stavanger to Kristiansand if Geir Pollestad had been the state council, for that was what the red-green government provided. But there was no money left to build it. So in the same way that Harry Potter's wand made sure that the Workers' Party now suddenly has money, the representative Pollestad's posts also bear the same mark. Now the four-field motorway between Stavanger and Kristiansand is to be built. With the pace you've had in Norway just to build a highway from Stavanger to Sandnes, one would come to Kristiansand in 2614. We are due to arrive in the year 2030. We're 585 years ahead of the form. It seems that everyone in Rogaland – perhaps except the Center Party, based on what I heard in the post – has got this. If one of them combined what's planned to be done in Rogaland, the representative Pollestad would have planned to spend 7.8 billion. DKK of 10 years with its NTP. We're adding up to 22.4 billion. kr. It's three times that much. I think the Federation has reason to rejoice when they do, even though the Center Party also obviously lacks a calculator. In the same way, the Workers' Party and the Centre have made it appear that each state has been deprived, despite the fact that the appropriations are almost doubled. The same applies to Hedmark and Uppland, where it is said that almost no fibre is produced. In fact, when we took over the government, less than a third of the population in both Hedmark and Uppland had access to fiber. Now the number is about half. It was less than 10 pst. which had access to 4G networks. Now we have over 90 pst. That's it. And in both states, the state support system has also increased in this period, because we say that fiber support has to go where the need is, and not geographically distributed according to a key figure, as the previous government did. So that the Center Party and the Workers' Party now, for the second consecutive year, talk down the fiber bet when it's proven to be an increase, is a pretty bad strategy to get business to establish itself in the counties. I hope the representatives of Aasrud and Tingelstad Wøien will consider how to make things attractive. Arna-Voss: That road must be fixed, it must be built, and we must make it as quickly as possible. But we also have to stick our finger in the ground and see what it takes for decisions to come, so that when the appropriations come, we can build. But we've added 14.5 billion. NOK to fix this. Mr 14.5 B.C. kr is more than what the tradesmen recommended us to use. In the current NTP, there is a comparison of zero dollars inside. So when the Labour Party and the Center Party give the impression that things are delayed when they've never even decided to get started, that's to trick the voters. One hears the rapporteurs from the Labour Party saying they had greater expectations. Yes, it's good – I say – that they prided themselves on the fact that the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left were to deliver more than the red-green chores, because it really wouldn't do much on that route. But when it's 14.5 billion. kr inside this, it is in order to prioritize this up, although red-green politicians also try to talk down their own region in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2618	It's a little amazing to hear from the representative Pollestad, who says that Rogaland County is forgotten in the national transport plan. Let me look up, walk ten years ahead in time and see what will be done in Rogaland in ten years' time as a result of this national transport plan: we want the Eiganes tunnel, Ryfast, four-field highway between Ålgård and Hove, Eigerøy bridge, bus road, four fields in the Transport Corridor west, a long Årdal tunnel and several scrapping safety projects. Four fields between Kristiansand and Stavanger will be completed within 12 years, based on the signals from Nye Veier – New Roads, which the representative Pollestad voted against, and which he said in a debate on Dagsnytt 18 would be to put Norwegian road construction decades back in time. The fact is that they expect to be able to build their portfolio eight years faster than planned, and they can build it almost 30 billion. kr cheaper. If there is something that has been set back ten years in time, then that has to be the cost level. Otherwise, I notice that the representative Pollestad again starts talking about tolls, which he himself did not do anything special with while he was sitting in the government apparatus, but which he suddenly became very concerned about when he no longer has any responsibility or influence. It is a little strange to go back and see: in 2014, the representative Pollestad sent a written question to the Minister for Transport. Geir Pollestad, State Secretary responsible for the preparation of the current NTP, sent a written question asking the following questions: ‘How many new toll missions will be opened from 1 January 2014 and until the end of 2017 if they are based on the national road system’s action programme?’ [[non-toll projects]] It is obvious that the Centre Party has had such an uncritical attitude to the use of tolls that it came out of control, and that they no longer knew what they were doing. The number of tolling stations doubled in the last four years under the red-green. And with what's in the options being presented today, there's no reason to believe that our tolls are going to be reduced by a red-green government. The working party has agreed to increase the level of tolls by at least 6 billion. kr. For Rogaland alone, they intend to increase Rogfast's toll level by 1.6 billion. kr. There is no clear direction in what the opposition is presenting here today, while the positioning parties have presented a plan of over 1000 billion. kr pulling in one direction. The voters know what they will get about the votes to continue to have Ketil Solvik-Olsen as Minister of Transport. They don't know what they'll get if they vote for the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2641	I want to take a slightly larger perspective and think about what we're really discussing. Some time after we had negotiated, agreed on and submitted a national transport plan, Eirik Sivertsen – I think it was – was on Dagsnyt 18 on 5 April 2017 and talked about the need for transport promises to come within a credible and realistic framework. He then hesitated that NTP now became a wish list of fun projects and not a strategic plan. So this was very expensive, a lot of money: 1000 billion. kr. Then the Workers' Party presents its own plan, and instead of possibly cutting into these 1,000 billion. NOK, they add further. That is where the debate really is. We have some critical comments on the Labour Party's proposal. The main criticism is that after summing up all the projects – I will not call it a wish list of fun projects, which is not a strategic plan – 120 – 160 billion are missing. kr. It's the undercover of the Workers' Party. Many of us are out saying that Jens Stoltenberg took the calculator with him when he went to Brussels, we say that this had never happened during Stoltenberg's time, and we call out to the representative Gahr Støre: Where is he? How could he let this happen? If you want to be Prime Minister, you have to make sure you present a realistic alternative. This is embarrassing overbidden policy and cannot be financed. There are limits to how many times you can spend money from tax increases for good purposes, etc., etc. This is what we have said. Then the representative Gahr Støre went up to the pulpit, and we expected that we would get a good enough answer to this – on how this undercover could happen, and how this hangs together. He started with some funny statement that he was Harry Potter, that the Minister of Transport was Humlesnurr, and that he had conjured up both one and the other. It was a little difficult to see why the opposition leader, the leader of the Workers' Party, instead of responding to how they intend to make this framework go up – they lack 120-160 billion. kr – made this such a humorous thing with a sense of urgency that the Minister of Transport always raises the Workers' Party, and that there were cars and trams also during the time of the Workers' Party, etc., etc. I hope someone from the Workers' Party can answer before this debate ends, because it's been a little tame, if you can say so. They have still not responded to how they intend to cover this in. This is quite specific: you have proposed projects for over 50 billion. And then they say it's going to be covered by 5 billion. kr – how is this going to work? They're talking about speeding up intercity, which is going to cost over 20 billion. kr, and they have a coverage of about 2 billion. kr at it – how is this going to work? It is all right – before the debate ends – that we are told how the Workers' Party has intended that the alternative national transport plan they have submitted should go ahead economically.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2660	It'll show up if we get an answer to that. In the meantime, I've been thinking about wondering who the representative Raja could be in that picture, with Humles cords and all the other characters from Harry Potter. The next speaker is Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2667	In Harry Potter I know who Abid Q. Raja would be, but I shouldn't say that. The Labour Party has provided an ambitious, serious and responsible alternative to the National Transport Plan, which will contribute to better and more climate-friendly transport and jobs across the country. There is a high potential for future value creation and new profitable jobs across the country if the infrastructure is safe, good and efficient. This is why the Labour Party is betting on transport and digital infrastructure. We make a clear prioritisation of the coast, public transport and climate action. We secure our roads and say that everyone should have access to high-speed networks. This is how we ensure future value creation, business development and profitable jobs across the country. The train becomes important for passenger traffic in the areas where there is a possibility. While much of the debate is about intercity in the East, Trundellag with our potter intercity stands at a fraction of the price and gives almost new content to the term 'good deal'. Because by electrifying the Trander and the Merakar Railway, the train offer is much better, the take-offs are more frequent and the train journey is faster. In addition, there are well over 14 000 tonnes of CO2 in the year, and the investment will be climate-neutral after just one year. In the 2013 establishment of the National Transport Plan, an overall committee underlined the importance of the start-up of the electrification and modernisation project in Trøndelag as soon as possible. The Progress Party wrote that the project had to be carried out as soon as possible, and that electrification of the Trønderbanen and Meråkerbanen had already given priority to the Advance Party in 2008. They welcomed the other parties after. Unfortunately, I cannot stand here today and welcome you to the Council of State. Instead, I must say that the Council of State and his government are following. The promises of the Advancement Party were empty words. Four lost years for Tronderbanen and Meråkerbanen are unfortunately a fact. To the extent that someone has used the magic wand here, it's to magic away its own promises. The working party will prioritise investments in the next budget to prevent even greater delay in a standard on the train offer that they have been able to take for granted for many, many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2682	I would like to start by saying that, until now, it has been a good many good years for investments in the transport sector in Westfold. The current Minister of Transport speaks in every post about the red-green government, but what he forgets to say is that it led to a large-scale bet in Westfold on the four-field E18 and start on double tracks on the railway, a modern railway in line with the intercity bet. Several have said that they looked forward to the national transport plan with anticipation. For us in Westfold, it was enough that we looked forward to the National Transport Plan a little bit with fear, because we had begun to get the first signals that the government wondered if you might not have double tracks on the railway between Tønsberg and Larvik, and that the ambition of a fully developed external intercity by 2030 should not be followed up. Then came the national transport plan, and it turned out that fear was not unfounded. However, on the first occasion after the implementation of the national transport plan of the previous government adopted here in the United Kingdom – and the Minister for Transport, he has followed up the efforts of the previous government in Westfold – when the government is to present its own plans, then the uncertainty and postponements arise. We saw it in the absence of planning resources for the year's budget, and – as I said – with uncertainty whether there should be double tracks all the way. It should have taken place when we have a newly built – thanks to the previous government – double tracks from Porsgrund to Larvik, to have to go on single tracks and then double tracks again from Tønsberg. Fortunately, my party has greater ambitions than that. Another thing, which not least the far too many Right-Rapporteurs in Westfold have been very concerned about, is to see that from Larvik to Horten, yes, perhaps Holmestrand, there is basically a coherent city. This means that we believe it would be natural for Vestfold to also be integrated as part of the urban environment agreements, and I am pleased that it is the ambition expressed by the Workers' Party in the setting up of the National Transport Plan. But whether it concerns urban environmental agreements, secure rail investment or other transport projects in Westfold, it is probably the reality that we have to get Westfold back on the agenda, we have to get another state council from the harvest of, from a different majority, and I actually look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2695	Cross-connection over Oslofjord has been discussed for as long as I have lived. In 1995 it was decided to go under the fjord in two races, steps 1 and 2. Step 1 is built. Now I live exactly over step 1, and I have been rapporteur for almost all of its life in the municipality with the eastern entry. In other words, I know well the issues and needs – the need for greater security and the need for greater capacity, read: uptime. In the context of the NTP, the bridge alternative has again received wind in the sails, the enthusiasts have been very active in all media, and even some technical advice has pointed in the same direction. It is then gratifying to record that it is a good and solid majority to implement tunnel step 2. It's the best solution, it's economics, security or feasibility. Bru is nice to look at – at a distance – and in this case it is good to see that we are not going to spend 15-20 years with regulation and discussion and 15-20 billion. kr in increased costs. When this is set against a finished regulated plan and a cost of 2 billion. kr, the conclusion is really easy to draw. In reality, this means that we will soon have a safer cross-link with larger and necessary capacity, rather than an option that is extremely uncertain if it had been implemented at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2704	It is interesting to note that the opposition in this room has not even managed to provide an alternative national transport plan. The opposition managed well in the last period, precisely because we wanted to make what we would actually do, and how to lift the transport sector in Norway. What the Workers' Party and the Centre were able to do was to patch things up and make some small suggestions. The representative Sverre Myrli wondered where I have been today, since I have not been in the debate before. Then I can reassure him that I have been and driven on roads with a speed limit of 110 km/h to Telemark – approx. 350 km with great roads because this government both builds a new road and ensures maintenance of the road that is there. Sometimes I have had to drive a little slowly because it is actually maintenance and new construction. It's fantastic to see that the infrastructure is built just like that, and with the ambitions that this government has, the Progress Party will be there and make sure it's built more roadway. After hearing the representative Gahr Støre say that it is not safe to build a road with a speed limit of 110 km/h anymore, or that you may not have to have a full four-field road anymore, it is good to go back to my own county and my own municipality of origin, where you have been very concerned that you should build a road where it can be run for 110 km/h, where there are wide road debts, and where there is light. But it is obvious that Jonas Gahr Støre did not find money in his budgets, or in the comments of the Workers' Party, so you have to cut the standard. I think it's incredibly stupid to actually build the roads of the future, and that's why I'm glad we have a Minister of Transport who wants us to build roads at 110 km/h speed limit. It's amazing. The previous government wouldn't have it, but this government wants it, and that's why it's been a good day to run on. I hear the representative Dag Terje Andersen say they have great ambitions. It's not a problem to have big ambitions – if you don't have money for it, your ambitions are nothing but airlocks. This is what is seen in the national transport plan presented by the Workers' Party in particular. There's a lot of air money and little reality. You have to want to build intercity by 2030, but there are tens of billions left to do it. The Government with the Advance Party and the Right has put forward a proposal that is realistic to complete in 2032. It almost ended up as a little pipe in Telemark when the National Transport Plan was released into the Committee. It was harrowingly quiet, with a little pipe about intercity by 2030, but when you saw the realities, there was no more of it. Finally, the gas road, which is very important in Telemark, and which the municipality has tried to catch for 40 years, has been part of the national transport plan. New roads say they look at the possibility of realizing it. The red-green never made it. This government seems to do it because we're thinking new and we're using new tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2719	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2724	It was the story of former fisheries and coastal minister Lisbeth Berg-Hansen about U-864, the submarine wreck outside of Fedje, who made me take the floor. The previous government had to crawl to the cross over and over again as it is known. They were for the covering of the wreck, then they were against the covering of the wreck. But money never came. It is wrong when I am given the opinion that the wreck should be lifted. What I have always said is that the load must be raised and the pollution risk eliminated. That work has started this government. This government has granted the necessary funds. So it is also wrong when Lisbeth Berg-Hansen stands here and claims that nothing has happened during this government. I would recommend Lisbeth Berg-Hansen to study the file that is being processed in this room, something better before she takes the word with attack, as she did in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2731	I have listened through many posts during the day, and I think I have actually now managed to get through all the 27 road projects that the Workers' Party has promised to speed up. So they're going to accelerate 27 road projects to over 50 billion. kr – by using 5 brd. kr. It's an interesting calculation that doesn't jump. In addition, several of the representatives have said that we should have completed intercity by 2030. It'll cost 27 billion. kr in addition to what is inside today – it is set by 2 billion. kr for the purpose. In my simple world, we'll need 25 billion. kr to make it. It's not in the jump, either. Then the Workers' Party shall have completed the Free E39 within 20 years – maintain that ambition. It costs $10 billion. I see that it's going to be difficult to implement. I share the ambition, but I hardly think 20 years is a realistic progress plan. So here it's created an image that we can implement and speed up a lot of projects that have not been funded, and then this ambition becomes just a wish list. Then it will be to choose and to throw away: what will be out there, and what will be done, if any? What can one trust in the promises made by the Workers' Party in this debate? From what I can judge, there are none of these projects I can now trust to be carried out in a good way – when everything is put into play. So for cost-effectiveization. It is a good purpose and a good measure. This is precisely why we are implementing many reforms in the transport sector, such as the rail reform and the establishment of New Roads – to look at new ways of doing things, to look at new ways of reducing costs, building faster and more efficiently. Who is it that is against? Yes, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are voting against these reforms. Then we can talk about cost control and cost reductions, but when you're not willing to take action and think new to get it done, it gets a little bit hollow. In addition, the Workers' Party and the Centre have added 15 billion. for efficiency measures in its financing plan. What's that? I still have the benefit of hearing from the Workers' Party and the Centre what these efficiency measures are. They need to give us some concrete examples of what you intend to do to make the sector more efficient – when a large majority of you are voting against what we are proposing. A small visit to maritime transport. We share a strong ambition to move more goods from road to sea. That's why we're fixing for 2 billion. SEK to port grants, we're setting up an incentive scheme of SEK 1.7 billion. NOK, we're facilitating a reduction of $0.9 billion. kr – and some other measures via Enova. We're building City Ship Tunnel. It is not possible to claim that there is no investment in shipping, that there is no investment in moving goods from road to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2748	At the beginning of this debate, Mr Astrup from the Right made a good contribution. He concluded that he was looking forward to the debate and hoped he received some clarifications from, among other things. the opposition. I was very excited about that too, but when I've heard the debate here today, I'm really starting to wonder if we're getting any wiser. The representatives of the Workers' Party have been in the Progress Party on and off. I understand that they don't want to talk about their own policies. This government and the cooperation parties have presented a comprehensive NTP, it is funded, and it is strictly prioritised. One has been more concerned about being in, for example: tolls. Perhaps the Workers' Party itself – also the representative Gahr Støre – should inform this Chamber and the Norwegian people about its toll projects and ideas, because it is putting on the drivers a toll shock to increase by a further 6 billion. NOK in tolls for the drivers. The representative Gahr Støre was also very concerned with the national transport plan in 2013. Yes, that plan was comprehensive, it was tabular, it was transparent, and it was a good document with strict priorities – and the Progress Party prioritised transport – where it showed policy. The Workers' Party has not made that clear. I would also like to remind the assembly that the alternative transport plan that was then so violent – that was not how mad it was – was less than today, so cordially welcome after! It is good that several parties engage in transportation and bet on it. But when the Labour Party Jonas Gahr Støre goes to the pulpit and has to explain how to finance it, you don't get any wiser. You talk about the magic wand – yes, you've talked about it a lot, that's what's going to apply. When the Workers' Party's representatives go up and talk about intercity and ask in proposals the government to come back to how to complete it, it's no secret that it will cost almost 30 billion. kr outside the plan to finance it. Then the Workers' Party will have to show them their cards. When the Workers' Party has 27 projects that cost over 50 billion. kr, and say that they should digitise and streamline: digitisation today. But when I read suggestions from the Workers' Party, I realize that here they have no ideas themselves, but have to ask the government. Proposal No. 4 from the Workers' Party: ‘The government is asked to provide a roadmap for the adoption of different technologies in the transport sector.’ The working party has no solution. It is reassuring that the largest party in the country has no politics and no ideas, only criticism. I understand that when you don't have the ability to present your own plan – no table, no clear leads, no ideas on how to speed up projects. Just talk and write notes – it's not credible. With that, the Workers' Party, with Jonas Gahr Støre at the head, has lost all credibility in transport policy in Norway in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2765	Today's debate has actually been on safe school roads, on larger housing and labour regions and on improved competitiveness for business. We ensure better mobility both in cities and in districts, and we provide greater freedom in everyday life and greater flexibility. Then we have to build better infrastructure. We cannot continue as one has done in this country for so many generations with governments – that one leaves the infrastructure a year after year, that one builds in pieces and divided, that one has a cost increase, that has also happened under our government, but that really had it as a background before. We have to put an end to this. The government has presented its solutions in its national transport plan. I note after many hours of debate that there are no concrete alternatives that will change this. Yes, one wants to do more, but with magic money, where one commits large projects, but funds them by 10 pst. of costs, and where one assumes that in the future one will find some way to do it cheaper, but one does not fully know how – one just hopes it will happen. It would be like going to a car dealership and delivering 20 kroner for a lottery ticket and saying: Take the win and charge for the car, but I am taking the car with me now. There is no one who would accept it, perhaps except in the world of the Workers' Party. I do not agree with the Labour Party, which in this debate has said that maybe we should not build the motorways with four blocks and 110 km/h anyway. That's the clearest position the Workers' Party has ever had that they can actually do, because it's about deprioritising and going back to such a building before. It's not forward-looking. I meet too many Labour Party rapporteurs who say that the Workers' Party was built in the 1990s, today is too bad. Why in all days does the representative Gahr Støre and the Labour Party in this debate call for a return to the same standard? That doesn't make any sense. I thought we agreed that the four-field motorway between Stavanger and Kristiansand was good when this government adopted it, and not that one would return to the red-green plan with a two-field road again. We have invested a lot on the coast and on the short sea shipping – very much. We have included it as part of the transport policy because that makes sense. We have ensured that there is a support system for short sea shipping, and that the tax regime has been reduced much more than what Lisbeth Berg-Hansen pointed out that the Workers' Party was successful. And we're spending more money now than before investing in fairways and ports. The fact that the Labour Party has shown in this debate that they have not got it with them, I find it alarming. The fact that they also overlook the need for further investment in our national transport plan is even more serious. And that the representative Berg-Hansen has twice been up on this pulpit and shown that she obviously didn't get my main post, where I went through all this, but later on as if I didn't dare take up the theme, is really just embarrassing. This debate shows that there are four parties that are able to gather on which direction Norway is going, and that there are four parties that are completely in disagreement on which direction Norway is going to go, where some are going to build more roads and others are going to scrape it, where some are going to build railways and others are going to scrape it. Then it's much safer and much more forward-looking actually to go in the group, as the bourgeois side does.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2776	The representative, Magne Rommetvei, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2781	In the comment from the Right and Cooperation Party on E16 Stanghelle-Arna, you can read: ‘The majority believe that it is important to turn all the stones around in order to find ways to get started faster so that the road can be completed as quickly as possible and refers to the possibility of starting construction through tolls during the first period. The majority use this as shown by the answer to question 50, and the construction start is no later than 2022. The work undertaken to further reduce costs and further accelerate the project shall aim to realise the construction start in 2021 as originally planned.’;» For me, it is amazing and a mystery how this can be possible when the majority of the comment also asks whether the Workers' Party and the Centre's proposal for three billion more to the Stanghelle-Arna joint project is sufficient to realise the start of construction in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2791	I thought I would take the floor to discuss the draft representative in case No. 6, which is about implementing a concept currency for the Tromsbanen. Because, as the Committee and the Storting may be aware, it is within the proposed national transport plan that a route from Fauske to Tromsø, also known as Nord-Noregbanen, should be decided – a very simple one. It's a practice we've been through before. 2011 was the last time that one carried out a very simple, similar, arrangement, which gave too much ground to go on with the case. We must not forget that this matter is primarily a matter of transport as a means of achieving something in society. It's not a goal in itself to build a railway. It is not a goal in itself to build a road, even if one sometimes gets the impression – especially when Bård Hoksrud talks. Nor is it a goal in itself to build ports or fairways – it is to build or maintain something that brings value to society. This is just a tool. We know that North Norway may have the highest potential for nutrient development for Norway. We know that in the next decades, the importance of the petroleum economy for the Norwegian economy will be going down. It's a fact. What is pointing up is what is, among other things, what is pointing up. takes place in North Norway. Sintef carried out a major sectoral analysis of the marine industries in northern Norway two years ago which showed that by 2030, if this is done, the seafood industry will be bigger and more important for Norway, in terms of export value, than petroleum. Creating an infrastructure that can actually solve this for North Norway is crucial. That's why we wanted a concept-valuation of a part of North Norway, Tromsbanen. In the area we talk about here – Tromsø, Narvik, Harstad – there is a population base of 228 000 inhabitants. It is often claimed that there are too few people in the north to build a railway, but the population base there is larger than that of several of the routes that are being built today – so it is an old myth that still lives with. When one combines this with the enormous potential of the northern marine food industry, which will increase transport in this region almost ten times in the next few years – and we have a lag in this region of eight billion from before – we know that this will not be solved with today's transport concept. One has to move this into a railway thinking. It's amazing that when you have discussions like this, there's a lot of talk about people on the roads – that people are going to drive cars, etc., but the nutritional dimension of the debate is often absent. Therefore, I think it is sad that no more parties support the SV's proposal to establish a concept-valuation for the Tromsbanen – so far we have seen no other party than SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2806	A solution for E6 Helgeland North has been found during the Committee's examination. I am very pleased about that, because by decision you have secured a future solution. I'm waiting, like many others, for how to finance, or when the funding for Brenna-Brattasen-Lien comes, I hope it comes in the harvest. But further north of the Salt Mountains there are still many unresolved projects and projects that are being delayed or taken completely out of the plan. On the E6 south of Northernland, in Trøndelag, there are still several E6 projects missing or for which there is an uncertain map in time when they arrive. I was surprised that the Ofot track was not inside the NTP, I think it should have. It's a long time to wait four years for a further solution. I am also surprised that the electrification of the Trønderbanen has gone as slowly as it has done. I had expected full speed on it. I am very disappointed that no solutions have been found for Ballstad port, where in the previous NTP treatment one was very clear on a lead to find a solution for the expansion and deepening of the ports in the western bay municipality. I sincerely hope that you can get it in place in the next round. It is important to get a real investment in ship infrastructure, and the Senter Party has put up a coast package of 1.5 billion. kr over these two planning periods. There are several ports in North Norway that are only financially solved in the second planning period, and it is too late to look at the development of the fishing industry and the aquaculture industry. In addition, we have four specific projects that are inside very clearly. Racial protection is very important in North Norway. That is why the Center Party believes that there is a need for a stronger commitment. The centre party is very pleased that we are getting an extension of Bodø and Mo in Rana airports. Now you have to ensure good processes, so that the realization succeeds as quickly as possible. I am also glad that no airports are proposed. Broadband is and becomes important. It is necessary to use more resources for development, therefore the Centre Party proposes it. It's not like you're solving everything with a new digging order. Finally, the centre party has an overall proposal that goes up and that is going up to voting tonight. In addition, I believe that the proposal of the Centre Party has a better distribution between the parts of the country, with a more comprehensive development of our main road network. This is due to a historic effort on broadband. We'll be able to do that without being irresponsible, and we'll be able to solve it without more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2827	We have now debated for almost seven hours, and almost no one, with a few exceptions, has been in the climate, one of the biggest challenges that this sector must contribute to solving – I repeat: must contribute to solving. We know that the transport sector accounts for about 30 pst. of the total Norwegian climate emissions, and therefore transport measures are absolutely necessary and essential to reduce emissions. It won't happen by itself. Should the companies and the traveller really change the course, predictability and clear signals are needed, and in this debate there have not been very many clear signals from the government. Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen is the most important climate minister besides the climate minister himself, and it is a task the Minister of Transport so far seems to have little ability and willingness to give priority, both in terms of results and ambitions, at least after hearing today's debate. Traffic growth in and around the major cities is to be taken by public transport, bicycles or corridors. The zero growth target, set by world leaders as an ambition to reduce emissions, is crucial. To achieve the zero growth target, the Workers' Party will invest about 10 billion. kr for climate and collective action in major cities over 10 years. Over four years in opposition, we have followed the promise through budget proposals, and now we are doing so in our proposal for a national transport plan. In the past, the Workers' Party has been met by the Right and the Advance Party, who say they don't believe in any of what the Workers' Party says about the collective vow. Well, in today's setting the beep has received a different sound. The Right Party and the Advance Party recognise the 70 pst. of the Workers' Party, and I am pleased that they do – welcome to understand that we in the Workers' Party implement what we promise. The Chairman of the Committee, Nikolai Astrup, asked the former Labour Party in the debate on what to do. Well – The Labour Party has presented a serious, ambitious and responsible alternative to the government, with clear priorities for maintaining and creating new, profitable jobs across the country and for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The answer is that with the Workers' Party in government, it is the tax cuts of the richest to go out, while the priorities of the community are to enter. Access to high-speed networks for everyone, a large-scale coastal investment and a formidable boost to public transport are good for everyone, not just the few. We have now had a debate in which the Right Party and the Progressive Party have been more concerned with talking about the Labour Party's policy. That really must mean that they are not very proud of their own achievements and their own plan, and that might say theirs. I can therefore rejoice, to all the listeners who listen to, say that the Labour Party's policy will be implemented from the harvest of, almost no matter who we are going to cooperate with, and with good cooperation parties, for which some are very concerned, and then this Chamber will once again have the opportunity to discuss the policy that the country is going to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2838	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2843	I will follow up the criticism from the Workers' Party that we are so-called delaying intercity. That criticism just bounces off. A little fact in the matter: the Labour Party has not fully funded its ambitions to build outer intercity. It'll cost 27.8 billion. kr, and the total number of promises made by the Workers' Party is between 142,4 and 182,4 billion. NOK, slightly depending on the cost of the free E39. So here the Labour Party lacks several billions and makes big, heavy promises that they can't fulfill. Then they meet themselves in the door when they at the same time criticize the representative Bård Hoksrud and try to make a number that we and the Progress Party promised too much earlier. Whether the Workers' Party had had enough money, they would not be able to complete Oslo-Navet. The tunnel to be built through Oslo must be built first – it must be completed before any external intercity effect is obtained. It also does not help if you have magic wands and magic money – since the facts are not on a wavelength with the plans of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2848	It must be a little sad to belong to government parties and governments when, when you are going to go to the exam and present your national transport plan, you have to spend so much time talking about the Workers' Party's proposal. I'm very happy about that. I like to talk about the Labour Party's proposal, because we have a responsible, well-worked and serious alternative. But here the government parties choose to pretend that this is a budget to be aged. They later appear as if there is no explanation of what policy we stand for. It seems that the biggest problem here is that there are no tables – or more tables, to be precise – in our part of the setting, because numbers are not missing. You throw it out and quote the Workers' Party. What is missing is understanding — or ability to read the whole. We've made some clear priorities. We give priority to the coast and the fairway, unlike the government, which also does not deliver on the current NTP. We go into the future and say that digital infrastructure will be crucial for equivalent opportunities across the country, and we have an alternative and priority where market forces fail. We are clear that collective, climate and environment are crucial to achieving good quality of life throughout the country in the future, and to save the planet, and then we have to take our share of responsibility for it and give priority to it. We want safe roads across the country, so we do a lot of tailor-made projects. But I realize that it is painful that we find money to prioritize the projects that the government is pushing out in time, because they've thrown the cards. We're assessing what projects that are we can enforce, because we have greater ambitions. But neither do we manage within the limits of the government, and the cards the government distributes, to find all the means, because the costs are out of control. On this guard, the cost has risen by 40 pst, the government says, and to the railway by 30 pst. It can't go on like that. If the representatives of the government parties had wanted to listen, in this debate they would have heard several of the representatives taking up and pointing out concrete measures to bring down costs, because there is a situation where the government says that the room for action in the economy is getting smaller, where tax cuts are to be made, so that the richest get more, and less tolls are to be paid. The socio-economic benefit of the government's plan is minus 179 billion. kr. Uncertainty about what is right investment, in the light of new technologies and developments, is increasing. The cost of road projects increases by 40 pst. and the railway projects with 30 pst. in four years. The use of oil money has to be limited, says the government itself, and the government has great reservations about the feasibility of the plan it has presented. Then I realize that it is a bit painful that we rock at the foundation of what you have presented, because there are several environments that ask the question: Is that possible? And when we hear the representatives of the government parties say that they have priority, well, then they're on collision courses with many, among other things. The Transport Economics Institute, which says that there is no priority here.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2861	In fact, I think this article illustrates how incoherent the Labour Party's policy is right now. We are criticised for spending too much money, but they are going to spend more money on their own. We get criticism that it's supposedly not socio-economic profitability enough, but they're going to do even more unprofitable projects themselves. We get criticism that we're going to lower the toll, but at the same time we get criticism that there's too much toll. It's not related. Then we get criticism that we don't think long-term enough, while the Labour Party solution is to reduce the speed limit and the dimensions less. It doesn't harmonize. The dissatisfaction here is not about the lack of tables, but it is about the fact that there is no connection in the Labour Party's promise, and what they say they will finance. Even party leader Gahr Støre has been here and admitted. That the trans-political spokesman for the Workers' Party has not received the speech of his own party leader, I think it is quite alarming. But there were two arguments that the representative Gahr Støre raised. One is, yes, we've added 10 pst. of what it costs. And argument 2: We hope that once in the future we will find a breakthrough in technology that allows us to bring down costs. For this reason, it was admitted that there are no concrete measures that this government is not already in the process of doing. So I hope – when the representative Sivertsen says that we just haven't heard well enough after, neither has the representative Gahr Støre heard well enough after – that the representative Sivertsen comes up here and comments: What measures are there to cut costs where you have experience from abroad that it works, but where this government has not wanted to use it? For all the measures we have taken, the Labour Party has voted against. To New Roads and Railway Reform, all of this, the Workers' Party says no when we mean yes. And we get the effect. The cost growth that the Workers' Party is concerned about is already under way. We are unable to solve this immediately when we take over the government power, but we are now showing through New Roads 20 pst. cost reduction in general. We're about to present figures that show cost cuts within the railway, simply because we can run it more efficiently. But then, however, the burden of proof is back on the Workers' Party. When one has had a seven-hour debate where one gives the impression that there is a lot that can be built, but the Labour Party is unable to say how it is to be financed, it is simply not credible. Then the representative took up the fact that the climate has been too low in this debate. Yes, I can at least show that it was part of my main post, and we also had a lot about it in the line chord shift. If you look at page 233 of the NTP message, you see that we've made visible how it's possible to cut. I recommend that the representative, Tung, reads the entire NTP message to bring this about, because through the work between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party, we have presented an offensive climate message, an offensive NTP, but where the main instrument is not to ban everything and increase costs at all, but to make everyday life easier by providing better alternatives. I know that's a pretty unusual way to think about for the red-green, but that's still the best way to build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2872	The representative, Roy Steffensen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2878	It is one of the most important documents of the period that is now being treated. The representative tongue made a point that we had spent seven hours, but we took nine hours four years ago. However, it seems that the Workers' Party is struggling to mobilize its own. Could it be that they think it's awkward that the party leader won't give priority to four fields and 110 km/h? Could it be that they are disappointed that they do not know how to finance all their promises? They have brought in road projects that will cost 50 billion. NOK, but they haven't added more than 5 billion. kr in funding. Or could it be that they are disappointed that they are going to increase tolls in the districts? Only on the Rogfast project will the toll increase by 1.6 billion. kr. I record that the representative, Tung, says that the Labour Party's policy will be implemented. Then it seems as if the previous member of the Workers' Party, Eirin Sund, is right that the new E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger should not be prioritized before the Ålgårdsbanen. It is also not part of the alternative NTP, so I expect that we will not see any excavators in the South-West if the Workers' Party joins the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2885	There has been a strange debate, and the claims have been hailed in the room about who has the most money, who has the least money – who wants to give the most here or most there. But I have to say that when the representative Karianne Tung went to the pulpit, it became a ‘higher’, because obviously you can't have read the whole NTP. In fact, the NTP is about climate, and it is also a fact that if you have better roads, straighter roads, so that you get less queues on the roads, the emissions also go down. In addition, with a number of different cases, the government has changed the car charges, which reduce emissions. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have taken a number of steps that go in the right direction. But what's special about this debate is that the one that the representative Sivertsen was dealing with, in the first place, is related to the use of numbers. Yes, that's quite right: in the Workers' Party's alternative scheme, there is no number missing. The problem is that the numbers are not related. It may seem that Jens Stoltenberg, when he went down to Brussels, took all the calculators across the whole group to the Workers' Party, because it is not possible to sum up these measures and come out with a sum corresponding to what the Workers' Party says you will use. Several measures are being put forward, and projects of the order of 50 billion will be speeded up. NOK, but what you see from what you want to spend on money is 5 billion. kr. You're talking about intercity, you're going to have to fill in 2030, and you're going to put 2 billion. kr – for a project that costs so much more, ten times more! It's simply not for believers. This government wants to build the whole country. We want people to be able to live around the district and do business. Then you actually have to get your goods to a market. That's why the Møreak is important in More and Romesdal. Therefore, E136, the export route out of More and Romesdal, is very important. For no one is more busy than a dead salmon to reach a market. Many have put on their country hat today. I usually don't do it that often, but right now, finally, I'm going to do it. For the county council in More and Romesdal, there was a ten-point plan, a ten-point list, of what one wants to prioritise in the transportation of the plan that lies there. This government is committed to all those desires. Then it's a little strange when you see in the media that some Labour Party representatives criticize this government's NTP when you deliver in all the areas you actually want. Yes, then it gets a little hollow, and I think actually that someone has to get on the plane and go down and borrow a calculator by Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2896	Later today — or perhaps tomorrow morning — we will decide on the national transport plan. It's a historical plan, with a commitment to transportation that lacks parallel in modern Norwegian history, and we have a broad majority, consisting of four parties, behind the bet. That's a good promise. In my first post I asked for answers from the opposition about what we could expect from them. We haven't got so many new answers. We got an experimental response here, that the undercoverage of the Workers' Party was to be financed through increased taxes. Well, the Workers' Party has proposed raising taxes by 15 billion. kr, but they are missing at least 120 billion. kr or maybe as much as 160 billion. to comply with the promises they have given the voters here. The different opposition sections crack in all directions, so it's not good to say what the voters can expect from the opposition. I need to comment on some of the claims made during the debate: The representative Eidsvoll Holmås was concerned that the E18 West Corridor project would only be beneficial for men over 50 years in Bærum who drive a car. I think it's turning the case upside down. For what is the E18 project really about? Well, that's to put 9 of the 17 kilometers that the west corridor is in the tunnel. It will make it possible to build closer around the important railway stations, where we have already invested billions in double tracks. It will make it easier for more people to travel collectively. In addition, there will be a separate bus route, which will make it far more attractive to travel by bus to Oslo and internally in Asker and Bærum – and it will be a cycle path. So this might be the environmental project of the times for that part of the country. We're simply also doing it for men over 50 years to travel collectively to work. Several have been busy with intercity. The representative Irene Johansen said that intercity had been pushed into the blue-blue. That's not the case. But with the arrangement of the Workers' Party, the intercity is pushed into uncertainty. We are clear that we are going to realize double tracks to Tønsberg by 2024, to Hamar by 2024, to Fredrikstad by 2024, to Sarpsborg by 2026 and to Halden by 2034. At the same time, we're going to build a railway tunnel under Oslo, which costs a lot of money, but which is a very central part of the project, and which was not part of the previous intercity plan. There's a lot to say, but just a brief visit to the representative Sivertsen, who says that the Labour Party prioritizes: the Labour Party prioritizes everything, and thus they give absolutely nothing, and the voters don't know what they can expect if the party gets power.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2913	I also want to talk about climate, because there are no other countries in the world that are close to being so offensive to implementing climate action in the transport sector as we are now. All passenger cars, light vans and all urban buses shall have zero emissions in 2025. All heavy goods vehicles must have it in 2030. 75 pst. by 2030 of the long-distance buses. 50 pst. of new trucks in 2030. And all the distribution of goods in the big cities is going to have it in 2030. So it's seven and twelve years to achieve so much results. This is way ahead of what you're doing somewhere else. In addition, the ambitions we have in shipping, where projects are being carried out, and what needs to be done now, are creating a distribution network for both electricity, hydrogen and biogas. Yes, we need to use biofuels for a transitional period, and the use must be concentrated in heavy transport and air transport. But we make sure we move forward and get advanced biofuels as soon as possible. We're offensive to the big cities. Transport shall be by foot, bicycle and public transport. We're adopting Oslopackak 3 today. I started with Oslopackak 3 when it was an initiative back in 2002/2003. It was then expected in Oslo – and in Akershus – that there would be no state support. I was in 2012, together with the representative Igstad, and negotiated the agreement that time. What a difference there is from that time to today! In 2012 there was not one crown from the state of Oslo and Akershus to support public transport – nothing! We had just received a government decision that transferred $2.5 billion. kr for the exceedances on Sinsen-Ökern, which were to be taken locally with Oslopackak 3. This year it's almost 500 million. kr from the State – in the State budget – that goes to public transport in Oslo and Akershus. And we're up to 50 pst. to the large collective investment undertakings. When we built the Lørenbahn, there was not one crown coming from the state. This is a rise made in this four-year period. Yes, I sympathise with the Workers' Party's desire to reach 70 p.m., but you have to look at what parties do, not what they say. Trustworthiness is built up by what you do, not what you say. Finally, a little bit about railway: there are 100 more departures from Oslo S now than it was four years ago, and we're moving forward with intercity, looking at the ‘city link’ and the local routes. I'm happy for one thing: now we're lifting the high-speed discussion back into rail transport, by getting a decision that we're going to have distance-wise high-speed investigations. This is absolutely necessary, because high speed is not at some point in the future. It's about the investment you're making now that you have to have the right dimension to build up under a Scandinavian network. Now it's going to go into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2930	The representative, Toril Eidsheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2935	The working party has tried to call itself the major defender of digital infrastructure. That's interesting, because they're actually spending more time on this today than they did while processing digital agendas. I appreciate the commitment, even if it's a little late. The right-wing party government has shown great action and has been a good facilitator for effective development, including by the digital sector. For the first time, NTP contains a large sphere of ITS, which takes heights to allow new technologies to be an important contributor to increasing efficiency and achieving our transport policy objectives. We do not currently have a fascination product for the transport system for the future, but we recognize the contours of a transport future that is radically different.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2942	It was interesting to hear from the Workers' Party's transport policy spokesperson Eirik Sivertsen, who was going to explain what the opposition wanted to prioritise, and what it wanted to prioritise down. When I heard all the representatives Sivertsen wanted to give priority, there was nothing left to put down. It's going to be a little bit difficult when you're missing a place between 100 billion. kr and 150 br. kr to have a realism in the national transport plan. In fact, four years ago, in the Progress Party, we had a lot of fun when we presented an alternative national transport plan, where there was, in fact, funding for the projects we wanted to carry out. It is therefore not clear to the Labour Party in the proposal submitted by the Labour Party that we are dealing with today. When the national transport plan was presented, there were major headlines in Telemark from red-green politicians. The center party said they would change the NTP if they came to power. The Labour Party said that NTP was a scandal for Telemark. Then it's interesting to go in and see what's in the alternative proposals for Telemark from the two opposition parties, the Center Party and the Workers' Party. On the E134, there are no sections in addition to what the government has put in, which has been one of the most important matters in Telemark. There's something in the neighboring states, but that's the same thing that the government has put in. There's something about arm to Bergen, but except there's nothing for Telemark and E134 through our county. As far as the railway was concerned, as I said before, it was a little pipe, or cluster, from an Labour Party representative who thought that the construction of intercity would now take place by 2030, but when you started looking at the costs and the bill, there was no money to implement. I think it is quite surprising that the largest party now in this period – I hope it will not be in the next period – is able to present a national transport plan that is not fully financed by the proposals that are here. It's quite surprising. I hear the representative of Kjerkol and several others from the Workers' Party say that this is an ambitious, serious and realistic proposal for the National Transport Plan of the Workers' Party. It's definitely not that when you look at the numbers and how you trick with numbers. It's a shame, because someone out there would think that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are going to do a lot, but for Telemark, there's no suggestion that matters to the even telemarking, except for the great thing that the government has actually done, despite all the shooting down when NTP was presented. So there's nothing in the attitude of the two parties that matters to the major road sections, except that this government is betting on both road and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2957	At the risk of my post being completely grounded – because I have no harsh words and harsh statements to make – I will only argue for my view on some questions here and come up with a reflection or two at the end of the debate. The first liabilities are economics. For me, this is just a replay with inverse roles compared to four years ago. Then the red-green government put forward a transport plan. It was an incredibly large economic boost compared to all previous transport plans, an enormous boost to bet on a broad front across different sectors. Nevertheless, the opposition said that it was too small, and put forward even more ambitious plans, a bit crackling, but still, and the debate followed that pattern. Now it's the opposite. There's no doubt that the investment in economics is very big, it's a bit forward in every direction, and the same kind of criticism comes especially from the Labour Party and the Center Party. If I were to tip, I believe that the challenge, no matter who will control the next four years, is to finance, whether it is the government party or the opposition's arrangements that will apply. We are entering this year with major economic challenges and a great many other areas in which it is to be invested. The second is that, as usual, the debate has been marked by something that I myself am busy with and know well about, which is an important road project all around the district of Norway. Many of them are very important. I have experienced for myself how incredibly important it can be to people and businesses, and many of them are important without having significant negative environmental consequences. However, when I see society as a whole, I think that urban policy has played a far too little role in the debate. That's where the great number of people lives, in and around the big cities. That's where we run most cars, Akershus is the county of Norway we run most cars per person, not Finnmark or Sogn and Fjordane. It's where the big climate promises can come from, and transport is a big influence on urban development. These include: Therefore SV has added an extra bet of 50 billion. kr in urban environmental agreements during the period, and reward funds for bicycles of 6.5 billion. kr. There is an extreme amount we can get out of a bet on the urban areas when it comes to climate impact, but also when it's up to good urban development. So the third thing I want to mention. On page 42 of the plan, the major technological changes we can have before transport are as follows: ‘The Ministry of Transport considers that, although we see contours of major changes, there is no danger that major and irreversible errors will now be made in relation to the investments proposed in road infrastructure during the first part of the planning period. In the long term, uncertainty is significantly greater.» I wonder if it's – 12 years this plan is all about. There's going to be huge changes just in recent years, and I think we're in danger of making big mistakes in areas where the transport pattern can look completely different in a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2973	This ageing period is soon over, and I can look back at twelve years in Stortinget, along with several others here who have a few days left. Since that time in 2005, we have discussed and discussed my local road, my county road, my national road, namely new E18. And we've never been closer to starting the expansion than now. I think that, like my party traps, is a pleasure. New E18 is possible thanks to Oslopackak 3. The representative Nikolai Astrup from the Right has described quite well what it's really about. It's about getting a much better bike path to Oslo, which will mean that many more will cycle, it will mean that many more can take the bus, because it will go much faster and be more efficient to take the bus, and we will get a local development in Asker and Bærum that will free many plots and mean much larger housing. It does not require any more mobility for cars. I will praise those who have stood through this over time. There are many in this room, and there are many parties that do not criticize others, who stick to the promises they have made, and who praise the partners. They have been shoulder to shoulder with my party, Akershus Arbeiderparti, about this package, and I appreciate that. This is absolutely necessary, because we need to work together across states, across multiple parties and over several major periods. But then there is one who is the Minister of Transport for the time being, who is able to trample on this consensus. ‘Stop playing the fool’, he writes in Budstikka on 16 June. It is a reading article about the red-greens, and the Working Party is mentioned by name. He calls it a fool's game, what we do. Then I ask the Council of State to hear what we are saying. He can also read the setting, where the Workers' Party goes for, and he can be present here tonight and notice that the whole Workers' Party is going to vote for. The party of progress, on the other hand, has voted against Oslopackak 3 every time. That's because they're against tolls. But there is no Oslopackak 3 without tolls. It's impossible. I would like to say that it is quite rude to attack the Workers' Party and those who stand together in this conciliation, and who ensure a broad majority. In fact, I expect more of government councils. I expect more of the people sitting at the King's table than they're talking about fools and making mistakes in a political debate. But that might be a transport debate. It comes in harsh words, especially from the Progress Party, and I do not think it improves the reputation of politics and gives more respect to politicians – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2986	The representative, Kjell Idar Juvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e2991	I have noticed that the Council of State is still in the Chamber, but he has stopped following what is said from the pulpit. It'll be his challenge. At least they've been trying to talk down the Workers' Party's proposal all day. They only get to do that, but at least this can be a clear message from the Workers' Party: we are ready to take over the government offices. We are also ready to take over the transport offices and show that what we have included in our transport plan, we will also manage and deliver on. We've been trying to talk our stuff out here today. We've been talking about the coast, where, in the government's setup, there's no bet on ports and fairways, we've been talking about scaffolding, which hasn't got the desired increase, we've been talking about broadband and digitisation, we've been talking about increased bets for cities, and we've been talking about increasing bets on single projects. And throughout this ten-year period, we've supported the proposals that have been here, whether it's been 80-zone, 90-zone or 110-zone, so try to make a black-and-white debate if there's a bomb shot. Then I just want to spend ten seconds thanking for the cooperation over four years and all of them wanting a great summer, where you charge the batteries to – hopefully – new people in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3001	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3006	We've been problematicating the economic space to implement this plan, and we've been trying to invite you to a debate on it. The only thing we've got back is almost manic answers like: We've created New Veier AS, and we have a railway reform. It remains to be seen what savings New Roads actually lead to. If that leads to 30 billion. kr in savings, I shall be the first to rejoice for it. But we still haven't seen it – we read about it in press releases. The store treats, with all due respect, not press reports. I hear the Council of State say that he will present figures for the railway reform and savings there, in the near future. I'm glad. If you can save tens of billions there, that's good. With regard to savings proposals, we have presented it from the pulpit repeatedly today, but we have also described it in detail in the vote. And I know that most people might want to read it again. Then to Astrup. This notification shall not be strictly adopted, it shall be annexed to the Protocol. But we have one proposal that we are together on, and the invitation here to the representative Astrup and Right is: there are several good proposals from the Labour Party that it is possible to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3015	I am actually taking the floor to support the representative, Mr Solhjell, that there should be more urban policy. It is vital that we meet the challenges of traffic growth in the big cities. It's hard. Even with Oslopackakt3, there are still challenges. I wish we had talked a lot more about how we're going to get a collaboration on the Breivoll station, to get a development there, how we're going to get a reduction in RV. 4 and go to Tonsenhagen, how we're going to be able to keep prices down within the collective system – they're going to be set up with this – and how we're going to be able to contract the prices, sum up the sums, to be able to both upgrade the traction net and buy new tricks. There is area by area where there is still a need to do a job, and I would like that to be what we concentrated the debate on, instead of what the debate has been about this month after month, about 2.5 kilometres of road in Bærum – whether one should have a solution either to Strand or to Ramstadsletta. For everyone who goes into the matter, it is quite obvious that when someone first wants to build, it is right to build the road from Lysaker to Ramstadsletta. It's cheaper, it's faster, and you don't have to tear so many houses. But it's a single decision. There should be a lot more concentration on what's in the rest of the city, and we still need to work together to get a lift. We have to do that locally, you have to do it as the landowner, and we still have to do that from the Storting, with the tools that we have. There is also a great advantage in this: it has always been in these packages that the railway is an integral part of the whole – but the railway has nevertheless been quite absent. Now a railway bet gets in as part of the bet. We have known Intercity for many years, but one now also gets into the railway tunnel, which is important for the whole of Eastern Europe – for the whole country. One has equivalent in Trondheim. Even though one now electrifies the Trunder Railway, one needs to continue working with double tracks for the Guards to see if one can get a proper flight. That's how you can look at other places as well. I think this is a big step in the right direction to look at the whole thing – based on local and national responsibility – in order to manage to bring together the projects we need in the big cities. It's not just about having them after each other. One must have funding when planning is in place, so that one does not have to stay unnecessarily and restart again — which is all too often the case with this type of project.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3028	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3033	I take the floor for the last time today – probably. I noticed an opinion from the representative Sivertsen, claiming that the national transport plan is not a budget. No, I entirely agree, it is not a budget. But we should treat it and its impact as if it were a budget, because the figures have to be linked. That is what has been our criticism of the Workers' Party today, that it is not linked – all the promises proposed by the Workers' Party are not funded. Ergo is hard to attach trust to what is presented by that party. In the end, I'm just going to send a little greeting down to South Africa and to the representative of Omland, who spoke so much about the two OPS projects that have been carried out in South Africa. There I fully agree – I wholeheartedly support the protests of the two OPS projects. I hope that the representative of Omland and the rest of the Workers' Party will also support future OPS projects and use the opportunity to implement them faster and better. We fully agree on that. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3044	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3049	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. When it was said here that the Progress Party and others were so concerned with the Workers' Party, it was precisely because – as I said – it is the country's largest party, it is a party that has the ambition to become a government, and it is the Self-declared governing party. What I'm left with after the debate today and tonight is that if you repeat «ambitious», «serious» and «responsible», there will be an established truth – there will be nothing more true for it. I have understood that it has obviously circulated in the Workers' Party's big group today that it was right to say so, because then it became as though responsible and serious. I don't think it was responsible at all – I think it was surprising that you couldn't prioritize. That's why we called for the Workers' Party, just to get the priorities, so we can tell the Norwegian people what we can expect. Instead, what the spokesperson Sivertsen said on the radio here earlier – before they even made their own statement: it must not be the case that NTP becomes a long wish list, with a wide range of fun projects that cannot be implemented. Now we see what the Workers' Party itself has delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3058	I want to thank you for a few things – for the first Oslo package 3. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is so clearly informing them that they support the government's proposals on how Oslopackak 3 should proceed with regard to the E18 West Corridor, that we are building both stage 1 and a bonus, stage 2, that it is being built completely. They thus give a very clear signal that they support the government and not the city council Raymond Johansen in how this best is to be done. Secondly, I see that someone uses a headline from a reader's letter I've written about fools' games, and gives the impression that everything is just a fool's game. What I pointed out was that the Workers' Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens in Oslo give the impression that when we build stage 2 together with stage 1, there will be a crisis for Oslo. Then I say it's a fool's game, because Oslo has signed that they're not just going to build stages 1 and 2, but build all the way to Boysrud. Then it makes no sense to give the impression that what the government is doing is bad for Oslo when Oslo actually agrees to do even more. Then we disagree a little about the time horizons, and that's why it's good when the Workers' Party in Stortinget says they don't agree with the reality description of the Workers' Party in Oslo. Then we can go on together about this, and that's good. Thank you for the debate, it has been an interesting and partly informative debate. I've got some clarity in some facts, both about what's funded, and not least that some things aren't funded. We have a thick document from the government, along with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which shows what we want in the next four years. There's very little discussion about the fact content of it, because it trusts people. The option is maximum in blue, not only how the four opposition parties could possibly manage to unite on a unified policy, but not least what lies in the option of the largest opposition party, when they are unable to say how to finance all their wishes. We've spent four years together, and we've had very big reforms. We have changed and improved the organisation in both the road sector, the railway sector, shipping and a little bit at Avinor, even though aviation works well. We have stopped the decay on the road network, on the rail network and on the coast. Recorded road projects are under construction. Eight billion bets. kr more on rail only in 2017 than in 2013, more money is spent on walking and cycling roads, we get more middle parts built, and we get traffic mortality down sharply. Norway was the best country in Europe, also in the world, in 2015. It's inspiring. When we see how much we have done through good work for four years, think about what this team can achieve for the next four years – hopefully in constructive cooperation with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3073	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3078	Since this is my last post in the transport debate and probably in Stortinget, I want to thank you, after eight years in Stortinget and in the Transport Committee. It's been amazing. Thank you for all the recordings, all the meetings and travels around the country, it has been incredibly instructive. In the end, I want to give a little visit to the representative Hoksrud, who said that the centre party has not given priority to Telemark. Yes, we have. We have prioritised Seljestad–Røldal on E134 and the start of government funds in the first planning period. Well, at least that's what they say. Thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3087	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3093	It's obviously the time for thank-you speeches. Some say it's been a good debate. I don't know if the debate has been so good. Some parts of it have been good, but there has also been a nice debate, and it is mainly due to contributions from many of the government parties, who have only – at least to a very large extent – talked about the Workers' Party's alternative proposals. It is very difficult to get political debates on digitisation and broadband, on coastal bets, on climate and big city and on the issues we have raised in the vote. So I would also like to say that I think it is a little sad that we have a Minister of Transport who is so little busy talking about the future, who has such a little constructive approach to debates in Stortinget, and where everything that is being taken up is perceived as criticism by the government. It is not, but it is a desire to draw up political debates, but it is unfortunately difficult to deal with the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3100	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3105	I have to do a little revisit, because Seljestad – Røldal is not located in Telemark, but in our neighboring state. Wagslid – Røldal is located in Telemark. When the Center Party says they're prioritizing it, they definitely don't. The consequences of the Central Party’s priority are the removal of the Oslo tunnel for the rail sector, and it means a great deal for all – including in Grenland – who intend to use the rail system from Grenland to Oslo. In the case of E18 through Bærum and Asker, which the Center Party proposes to postpone by four years, there is an important project that means a lot to people from both Telemark, Vestfold and Agder states who are going into the capital. So it's very sad to see that the Center Party prioritizes down the districts, to get these projects in place means a lot to District Norway too.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3112	I think there are a lot of people who now think that the Labour Party has to clarify what they want. There's a gray and embarrassing over-the-counter policy that can't stand without charges. We see the representative Sivertsen and the Labour Party's proposal in which they claim that intercity expansion should take place by 2030. But in the interview he gives to E24, he claims that they have never given the impression that it can be built before 2030. Now the representative and the working party must soon decide what they want, and when they want to. In one eye, they give the impression that this should be done within a time frame, but at the next crossroad, they reject it and claim that they will not build within that time frame. What is the actual ratio?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3117	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3-13. The size of the store then goes to the handling of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3135	The Progress Party does not intend to create problems for work within the Council of Europe and the Committees there, as it has now been pointed out that it can become in committee work and with whom it is appointed. So the Progress Party draws up its proposal, which is in the second section of the proposal, of a new member of the Council of Europe, so that it does not create the problems that have been pointed out through the media and in letters. We want to do that. I hope that the remainder gets a majority. If you don't go into a new practice in Stortinget, where it's no longer the individual party that chooses who should be a representative in the various positions. I think that might be a bad new practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3142	We'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3147	I want to continue in the Nordic Council for the period. There's not much left of it, maybe a couple of meetings – maximum – and it's the middle of the holiday, the time when most of the others are fighting election. I have been a member of the Nordic Council for almost eight years. I've been both a permanent member and an alternate. I have not failed my assignments, and I have set up as far as I can, and it has been quite often. My group took up what we are now dealing with, at a group meeting where I was not present. It was not on the agenda, and I had not been informed that the matter would come up. I think it's very special, as this matter most concerns me.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3156	It is good practice for the different party groups to choose who will represent themselves in the different organs of the Storting and in international delegations, even if it is the Size and the Delegations. We support that. The issue we have to deal with today, however, is special, because here the Parliament is used as a kind of criminal tribunal in an internal party resolution. SV's group doesn't like the scheme we have in between is used in this way. It is natural and correct that the parties are allowed to move their representatives over a period of time. This may be due to political priorities, the need for internal reorganisation or even a representative doing a bad job. The removal of the representative Credit two days before the last meeting of the period is something else: one initially symbolically decided to distance one representative. It is also about the international office of a representative on behalf of the entire Stortinget. The tradition that lots determine themselves is a trust-based scheme. In this case, we believe that this system has been abused. The election is about punishment, not about the fact that the representative has not done his job, not about the fact that the representative has been in office for a political line that is not acceptable to the party, not that there is a need to allocate political tasks in a new way to the Progress Party group. In an important area, there could also be practical significance. This applies to the work of the representative of the Vosskensen of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The representative has made a great effort. We need representatives with networks and knowledge, and it's important work to do in the next few months. I note that the Progress Party has drawn up its proposal for one of the two committees, with the formal foundation that we all know at present, that there is no basis for replacing people in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on that basis. But in order to decide what we are going to vote on later today, I would ask the representative Nesvik to clarify what a basis the Progress Party has for wanting to replace the representative Vossken from the Nordic Council. Is it an action against a breach of trust, or is it a punishment because of her actions in another case? Or is there a different reason than the one they've given to the media? I think it also has relevance for the second question, even if it's not contested, because it's not acceptable, as SV sees it, that the size is used for internal game settlement in a game. It will eventually undermine the trust-based arrangement that allows parties to appoint people on a relatively free basis. So I ask for a clarification of it from the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, so that SV can decide what to vote on when voting is later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3175	As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, the Progress Party and the Storting have not made a choice, because it is the Council of Europe's own rules that we also have to deal with. When the representative Nesvik talks about new practices, there is certainly a new practice that is being tried here today, namely to throw out a big business representative for two days before the Stortinget closes its doors for the summer and in the last year of a four-year period. It's a new practice. The question will then be, as the representative, Solhjell, whether the Storting will be able to use – or abuse – in this context. It's petty, it's brutal, it bears witness to revenge and to take it back again, and for my part I have no intention of agreeing to support such a kind of revenge on the Stortinget. I believe that the Storting has far more sensible things to do. This is about being good colleagues and having a certain kind of humanity. It is also about how we want policy to be. Is this the idea we want to show? Is this what's going to be left? Is that how we want to appear? I don't think so. At least I don't want to be in it. We also have an ethical responsibility as magnification, as big-scale representatives, as colleagues, and I would strongly urge the Progress Party to draw this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3186	I think there is a lot of perception in the big room now that the big group of the Progress Party and the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party have put the Storting in a very difficult situation. There is an agreement between the parties, and it has probably been this way every year, that when the Storting is to allocate places in different international delegations, the number of places per lot is to be allocated, and then the parties themselves designate which representatives are to be charged with which positions in different delegations. The other batches initially don't interfere with it. But it's a system that's based on trust among the parties, and it's a system that's based on the fact that the parties don't use the system and the system that we agree on, to involve other party relationships. I don't think I've ever been on – and no one else here either, probably – that the Storting has appointed anyone else to delegate than the party groups have proposed. As far as I know, the Electoral Committee and the Stortinge have always dealt with this. But at the same time, I must say that I have never been involved in what is now happening, that a party group wants to punish one of its own representatives who have voted against the party in one case, two days before the Stortinget split up. If the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group leader of the Progressive Party, who has put the Storting in this hopeless situation, do not understand, then I would like the Progress Party and the parliamentary leader, Nesvik, to take up the difficult situation that others are now in. On the one hand, of course, we don't want to change the system that the parties themselves appoint their representatives, but what is happening now, we can't be involved either. I have to say that when this started rolling in the press this weekend, I really didn't believe in what I was reading, that it was simply a punishment for the representative of the Goodwill from her party. I didn't believe it, I couldn't believe that it was the situation, but after hearing the good news myself, I realize that that's the situation. And I really don't think that's possible for the Storting to be in. There's one way to sort this out, there's one way we can split up here tonight, or tonight, with our head up and say that we found a solution to this, and that's that the Progress Party takes care of it and draws both of the proposals, and that the vote committee's position is also drawn and is no longer relevant. If not, the Progress Party has placed the Stortinget in a hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3203	As head of the Labour and Social Committee, where Vosskensen is a member, I would say that the Committee has had very good cooperation with Vosskensen. We record that she has largely been an alternate, when she has been in the Nordic Council and in the Council of Europe, and she has been very active in the two roles. So to put it that way: we have had a good cooperation with the Vossense, although she has been a lot in the Council of Europe and a lot in the Nordic Council, so much that it has almost been a standing joke when there have been committee meetings: where is Inbjørg? – Just so it's said, so we know it. We're not going to interfere with the voting at Stortinget today, but as head of the committee of which Vosskensen is a member, I needed to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3208	I signed again because the representative Nesvik didn't sign up again. Now he's done it, and that's good, because I expect him to give an answer to the questions we asked, and he also responds to the representative Myrli and others from here to withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3213	The Group of the Party of European Socialists has dealt with this matter and part of this proposal remains. These include: in the Nordic Council, meeting in different party groups. It is also the case that we must expect, and we must trust, that those decisions, such as at any time, will be taken at all times. be taken in the lot's own organs, always followed up. In this case, the Progress Party has chosen to ask for the appointment of a new alternate member of the Nordic Council, after treatment in our large-scale group. There is no revenge at all, but there is a desire to have a new member there now, as a result of the situation that has arisen, related to trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3219	There is no doubt that this is a brutal punishment and a retaliation. I hope that each representative asks if they can participate in this. I hope it's dismayed by the Storting. This is a new practice. I think that if a reviewer examines the story, the story of the Storting, one won't find a parallel to this that a representative is deprived of his international responsibilities as a consequence of an internal split in a party, under 48 hours – when the vote takes place, it's probably 36 hours – before the Storing separates, in the last year of a four-year period. This is absurd, this is embarrassing, and I hope that it will be voted down by the Storting. This is noticed. At least it does not increase interest in and confidence in policy, and it certainly does not increase the recruitment of policy. So let's at least let's not upset others' policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3226	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3240	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3249	We have been discussing a matter on which there has been an agreement, I dare say, in the committee that is a good initiative of several representatives from the Left to promote social entrepreneurship. This is a theme I think all the games are concerned about, and I also think the setting bears the mark of it. On that basis, our intention when I became the case rapporteur was to promote a very brief remark – presumptuous aggregation – and a proposal that was probably less detailed, but, we had hoped, more unifying than the five individual proposals that had been submitted. This is summed up in what is now the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, where we say: «The government is asked to present its own case to the Stortinget for the promotion of social entrepreneurship in line with the intention of the Representative's proposal 82 S [[2016-2017]] Unfortunately, I do not think it was possible to reach an agreement on our experimental opinion that such a central theme needs a comprehensive and comprehensive approach, but that instead, according to the vote, the Left promotes three of the five proposals presented in Document 8 as minority proposals. Now I have understood that those proposals may not be taken up by the Left's representative because, during today's day, we have been distributed a loose proposal as it stands by a majority, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. In line with the good spirit and our intention to separate in a peaceful and harmonious atmosphere, we cannot see that there is anything in the proposal that does not fulfill what was the intention of our proposal, No. 1st@item: inlistbox With that, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, I take up our proposal, no. 1, but will at the same time inform us that we are going to support the loose proposal that is now being distributed in the Chamber, and hope that the sum of Document 8 proposal, the proposal that has been there but that has been lost again, and the proposals that will finally be discussed, will lead us jointly to take responsibility for developing the opportunities of social entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3263	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3268	Social entrepreneurship is important. It's an important addition to the welfare state we have. I am pleased with what is now becoming a touching consensus on the loose proposal submitted by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, but there is no point in concealing that in this thematic there is an ideological disagreement. There is a difference between those who believe that all good forces should be used in welfare work and those who believe that the public sector should have the primary responsibility. We see in my home municipality, Oslo, how to re-communize good private offerings where users are satisfied. It's done for the sake of one thing: ideology. You don't want to use all the good powers. It is believed that the provider is more important than the quality of the service. In the history of the welfare state, social innovation has always been seen alongside the welfare state. This is what social entrepreneurship is — both ideal and private — has contributed to this. Social innovation outside the welfare state is important because not all good ideas come from the public sector. The public sector is unable to do everything, solve all the challenges, see all the challenges, and therefore the efforts of social entrepreneurs are so incredibly important. This government, together with the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, has increased and strengthened the social entrepreneurs system. With this proposal, we show that there is something we intend to do if the same majority exists after the election. I think that's positive. It is nice that the Workers' Party is also voting for this proposal, but if you want a guarantee for social entrepreneurs, you also have to look at history. You'll see, for example. that this government is the first government to mention social entrepreneurship in a government platform. It says a little bit about how important we think this field is. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3279	The representative Stefan Heggelund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3284	The left is for entrepreneurs and for entrepreneurship not only in the ordinary economy. We also believe that entrepreneurs and newcomers have an important role to play in what we know as our welfare society. They already do that today, and they've always done that. One might say, in fact, that the origins of the welfare society and the welfare state were just social entrepreneurs – people who started out, usually on the basis of an ideal motivation, and wanted to offer their fellow human beings in many areas of life. Now we are, and I would say fortunately, in another situation, because today public – state, municipalities – take an overwhelming share of responsibility for providing good and safe welfare services. But still it is that there should be room for entrepreneurs, there should be room for those who are able to think new, have a new idea, want to try something out to solve what is common tasks, in a new and hopefully better way. That is why the Left has tabled this proposal for a representative. I would like to say that I think it has received a good reception, both through good and satisfactory answers from the government and the Council of State, and through good cooperation within the committee. Unfortunately, the committee has not been able to gather on any specific proposals, despite the fact that the case-speaker, Andersen, has done a good job. But after the setting was made, we have tried to find out what it is possible to gather about, and at least the cooperation party on the Stortinget has been some of the things about the loose proposal, no. 5, which the representative Heggelund took up. At least that means that we from the Left are a good proposal, and it takes great care of what was the intention behind the three proposals we chose to make in the setting. So I would like to inform you that we are not going to take up those proposals and that we are going to support the joint proposal, No. 5, which we're behind. There were originally two proposals in the proposal for a representative, but they we found, in essence, that the Council of State gave a good response, so we have chosen not to present them in the debate today. I'm glad that we've done a good job in this big time period, not least that we've increased the funds in the social entrepreneurship system. It has been an important budgetary priority, and I hope it will continue. And I hope that what is now agreed, which, in my view, is concrete and clearly leading forward, will be closely followed up by the government already in the first budget for the autumn. It's important to continue to cheer up those who, through their work and their ideas, are helping to make our society even a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3297	Social entrepreneurship is about developing and implementing innovative and sustainable solutions to social and societal problems. The government will improve the conditions for the use of social entrepreneurs and voluntary sector in the welfare system. To get more people in work and activity, we want a variety of suppliers and professional environments. We have therefore taken several initiatives in this area, and we have started work on how to further develop social entrepreneurship efforts. Five proposals are promoted to promote social entrepreneurship. The proposals concern several departments, and my written reply has been drawn up in consultation with the departments concerned. One proposal is the designation of state development funds for cross-ministerial projects involving businesses and social entrepreneurs. There are several state development funds here that can benefit businesses and social entrepreneurs. The fact that the schemes fall under the responsibility of different departments does not initially prevent actors from cooperating locally on applications. Departments may, in letters of allocation, require underlying activities to give priority to social entrepreneurship. The letter of assignment to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare provides guidance on facilitating cooperation between labour and welfare management and social entrepreneurs. As mentioned in the representative proposal, the government launched in February a booklet on social entrepreneurs as partners in the public sector. This shall provide information and knowledge on, inter alia: acquisitions for both purchasers and social entrepreneurs. However, it is important to focus on how to further strengthen the competence of public acquisitions and social entrepreneurship. Here I can mention that there is a ongoing work on a paper on public acquisitions, which is scheduled to be completed in 2018. As regards the extension of the target audience for the grant scheme managed by the Labour and Welfare Directorate, I would like to stress that the purpose of the scheme is to stimulate the development of social entrepreneurship aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion. The grant scheme takes a broad range of target groups, e.g.: children and young people at risk of falling out of education and work and those with drug and mental problems. Although the scheme has been strengthened for several years in a row during our period of government, expanding the objective will result in fewer funds for innovative activities to combat poverty. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of good cooperation across the public, voluntary and private sectors, so that we exploit the good resources of society smarter and more effectively. Many of the societal challenges we face today have complex causes and require solutions across disciplines and policies, and social entrepreneurs often work across disciplines and sectors, helping the public to meet needs in new and innovative ways. I am concerned about improving that work further. We have started a good job and will continue our efforts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3314	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3319	I'm aware that I'm taking the floor on a long day, but over four years I choose to spend 3 minutes on this, because I think it's a very important matter, and the majority of the parties have raised social entrepreneurship in different ways over this four-year period. This is about innovation in both the civil and public sectors. We're in a technology shift, and it was made very visible to me with the refugee crisis we had almost two years ago, when many people brought smart phones on board, to say it like that, and one could actually carry health information with them. The second was that there were many who had not been participants in non-profit activities or were employed in the public sector, who had the opportunity to engage, participate, facilitate and help others. It is important for Norwegian society to integrate in this way as well, and it triggered great creativity. I got the pleasure of accepting over a hundred here at Stortinget, a bunch who later called themselves Guts to Change, and who have become social entrepreneurs, and some of them have also become real entrepreneurs after that hard work. In the health sector, we have spent some time on fountain houses – over 20 million. SEK to establish several fountain houses in Norway. The thirteenth thing we are so lucky to get in my home town, Gjøvik, from 2018. There, for the first time, the Norwegian Women's Sanity Association has chosen to enter a fountain house, and it also shows that those who established some of the social entrepreneurship in Norway well over a hundred years ago are still ahead, see the opportunities and see the arenas where they can contribute, and also help others in. It's going to be a fountain house that targets women and young women, and it's also interesting that the mall CC at Gjøvik, with many women's jobs, has chosen to engage in that fountain house, because, as they say, we have a lot of work tasks when we don't have to stand by the cash register and meet people face to face. These are examples of what comes out of social entrepreneurship, and of actors meeting across societal tasks. So to the Council of State: it is particularly important that the departments facilitate acquisitions, because through social entrepreneurship, such as the Fontenehus model and others, the new governance models and forms of organisation that the public enjoys – sometimes so good that we should pay for them and buy them.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3336	It was really just a small comment to the representative Stefan Heggelund, who refers to history and that there are deep political dividing lines between the right and left of Norwegian policies in the case of social entrepreneurs. What we have warned against is, of course, profit from well-being. When Heggelund is concerned with the story: In 1819, the Episcopal Hospital was established in Christiania. Even as a young girl, I was so lucky to be allowed to go on the Red Tand, at the holiday home of the typographers. The Women's Movement to the Workers' Party helped to create the first kindergartens in Norway. Traineeships under the control of the trade union movement are nothing new, it is more than a hundred years old. The last mentioned font houses, which the Workers' Party has also been actively supporting. So it was just a little visit to Heggelund: when we're going to apply the story, we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3344	What the representative of Christoffersen addresses is absolutely an important part of the story, and we shall remember that. It also reminds us that the welfare society and the welfare state we have built up in Norway are part of a joint effort. It doesn't belong to one party or one movement, it's something that belongs to all of us. We've built it shoulder to shoulder. From this point of view, I am pleased that the representative Lise Christoffersen in his speech now addressed what is – to say – the bourgeois description of the reality of the development of the Norwegian welfare state and the Norwegian welfare society, which says that everyone has a part in it, as opposed to the «partial» description of reality and the story of history, which is that it is all due to the Workers' Party. I have an example from modern times of social entrepreneurship, of how these are ideological differences. It's in one of the suggestions my party has in its programme for the next period. These are welfare bonds, that we want to introduce something like this in Norway. It's an important proposal, which social entrepreneurs are concerned about. What was the Workers' Party's reaction to the Right National Meeting Decision? Well, then we heard the same thing that we always hear when it comes to criticism from the Labour Party against the Right, that this was a proposal that only benefited rich investors. To be honest, there's the ideological differences – instead of listening to the social entrepreneurs and finding out what can make more people invest in social entrepreneurs, find out how we can get more companies that want to be social entrepreneurs. So when the Right has an action based on conversations with – I kept saying – a global movement in social entrepreneurship in Norway, it is criticised that it is a proposal that will only benefit the richest. Here you can see the scepticism of all the good forces of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3367	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3383	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3392	I would first like to thank the proposers for an important document. Unfortunately, mental health and mental health challenges are still taboo, although there is more transparency now than before. There will be more elderly people in the future, because we live longer. This group also has the right to maintain its mental health. The older we get, the more complex the disease image becomes, which will also affect our whole health, physical and mental. Many people experience being isolated in many ways. A lost spouse/partner, friends, one no longer has contact with colleagues, and we may also be isolated because we lose physical assumptions. Work on mental health is not only about municipal services, but also about how health promotion and prevention are put into practice, given the overall life situation of older people. Parents have the same need as others for experiences, social gatherings where you eat together, culture and not least activity. One knows that this can help and promote the health of the elderly, both mentally and physically. Can't everyone come to open cultural offerings, it has to be arranged for culture to come to your people. Like KrFs, I'm glad that we managed to save the cultural walking stick for the elderly, which the government would lay down. One needs to get involved and experience professional cultural offerings. At the same time, we should not underestimate the fact that some older people also suffer from common mental disorders, not just as a result of their experience of loss. There are people who, we do not know why, in old age, have normal mental diagnosis, and they must have the right to treatment and to get the right diagnosis. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1998–2008 was important to give better competences and greater economic priority to politicians and bureaucrats, and mental health was not fully lost. What is now presented in a proposal is to get a more holistic health around the mental challenges of the elderly. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for expertise in the mental health of the elderly, who often have much more complex and more suffering than other patient groups. So both as case rapporteur and as KRFs, I will now, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, take up the proposal that we are together on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3409	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3414	In this representative proposal from the Workers' Party, we ask the government, as part of the announced strategy for municipal mental health work, to implement a municipal action plan to strengthen the mental health of the elderly, where it sees in context the health promotion and prevention work, better diagnosis of mental illness in the elderly and good treatment of the elderly with mental disorders. Good prevention and good public health work should help older people to maintain their physical and mental health and to live good, maritime life. There's a reason to notice the written recording of the Norwegian Psychologists' Association Committee dated 8 May. The Psychological Association believes that much more needs to be done to strengthen the mental health of the elderly, because older people with mental disorders are currently under-prioritised in mental health protection. If the Psychologists' association is right – and I think they do – an extra effort is needed to provide the elderly with good mental health care, better than they are today. Therefore, it is a pity that the government parties and the Left do not support our proposal that an action plan for the mental health of the elderly be part of the strategy for municipal health work notified by the government. Good mental health is not only about municipal health services, but also about how health promotion measures are being put in place to raise the overall life situation of older people. Older people have as much younger needs for experiences, culture and activity. That is why there was also massive protests from the elderly throughout the country when the government in its very first draft budget proposed to remove the cultural spaser stick, which has given so many good cultural experiences to the elderly. After much pressure, the system was partially recovered, but without designation and without reporting requirements for the use of the funds. Therefore, no one can explain how many people are getting an offer today. This should be amended in order to provide an overview of how the funds are used. It is, I think, sad that the government lets such a great measure more or less sail its own sea. Day-time activities places for residents of the elderly with dementia shall be a legal right by 2020. Then it is a pity that the government is dampening the ambitions by cutting off the subsidy to the daily activity offer in the budget for 2017. In the event of an incursion, a wrong amount has been entered for this cut. It says in the setting that there will be a cut of 45 million. NOK, while the correct figure is at the base of SEK 19 million. NOK, so it is corrected. Just as fully, it means reducing the ambitions of daytime activities, while we know that the need is great, and that we really need to do the important work with such places.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3425	There is no doubt that the proposers address an important issue. That is also why today’s government, together with the Christian People’s Party and the Left – from day one onwards and throughout the period – has raised and prioritised mental health and care. A good mental health throughout life has been a main effort between the cooperative parties, with the main objective being to raise mental health in line with the somatic environment. As we are still facing many challenges that need to be addressed in the field of mental health, I share the intention of the proposers with the proposal. At the same time, I believe that the proposal for a separate action plan for the mental health of the elderly is really to open doors, because the mental health strategy to be presented by the government in August 2017 will address all age groups, including the elderly. Psychiatric problems are often closely related to risk factors such as: solitude and exclusion. This is also one of the reasons why the government has chosen to make mental health and the fight against loneliness an integral part of public health policy. There is therefore reason to remind the proposers that the Government of the ‘People’s Health Communication: Testing and Opportunities’ included three new areas of action in public health policy. From then on, mental health became an equivalent part of public health cooperation, while at the same time focusing more on active older and health-friendly choices. An active, safe and good life as an old age is therefore an important part of the government’s public health policy. With regard to the Workers' Party's criticism of government policy in the field of dementia, I would also like to remind you that the government has made a strong effort to increase the daily provision of services for people with dementia through the state budget. The fact that many municipalities did not apply for available funds in 2016 is very regrettable. I will therefore strongly advise the municipalities to make use of the earmarked funds in the 2017 budget, which will facilitate 750 new day activities. It's also a pleasure to be able to remember the government's new reform, Life for the rest of its life, which is a quality reform for the elderly. Here too, mental health is included, with objectives of several good years of life, where older people retain good health longer, becomes more social and more mastery of their own lives. Lifelong reform is based on a number of measures already undertaken by the government. Among other things, the government is making a major effort to increase the competence of municipal health and care services. Several managers are trained and more clearly required for management. New quality indicators have been introduced and a municipal register of patients and users is established. The government is already in the process of raising this issue, and therefore there is no reason for the right to vote on the proposal that is being promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3442	We know that in the years to come it's going to get older. We also know that many older people are struggling with mental distress, and that this affects the quality of life of many people in their everyday lives. Social isolation and solitude increase the risk of developing mental disorders, and in particular depression. We also know that the number of elderly people who get dementia will increase significantly in the years to come as the number of older people overall increases. Psychiatric health and the active elderly are therefore areas that are high on the agenda of our public health policy, while at the same time a number of initiatives are in place that will help to ensure that municipalities can already provide better health and care services to their citizens. This will be further reinforced in the future. To mention some of the things the government is working on, I would like to point out the package course in mental health and drugs, measures to contribute to good, coherent and cross-cutting patient trajectories, increased predictability and more equivalent offers. Since a number of measures are relatively new, it is important to see their impact before, where appropriate, the proposals put forward by the proposers, to draw up a municipal action plan to strengthen the mental health of the elderly. I also believe, as the representative, Mr Nørve, that the proposal has opened doors, since the government has indicated that a separate mental health strategy is being presented as early as August this year, and that it should address all age groups – including the elderly. I want to discuss this with daily activities for people with dementia, which is what the Advance Party, as part of the government, has been involved in fighting for. While there is a strong focus on increasing the daily supply of services for people with dementia through government budgets, the fact that many municipalities did not apply for funds for day-to-day activities in 2016 resulted in much less money being spent than the budget allocated. It is very regrettable that many municipalities did not apply for grants, and I really hope that the municipalities will now avail themselves of the earmarked grants in the 2017 budget, where 750 additional places have been allocated. It is very important to work to put in place a sufficiently developed activity offer for people with dementia. I would also like to point out that the government will propose changes to the Health and Care Services Act in order to establish an obligation for municipalities to offer a daily activity offer to residents with dementia, applicable from 1 January 2020. In the end, I would like to point out the cultural spa, which lives in the best of luck, and show that the government also has funds for a new grant scheme that ensures the use of music therapy as part of the care of the elderly. After visiting nursing homes that have invested in this kind of competence — even some private ones, who are probably not as happy in the hall — we see that music therapists, as well as stimulating good music experiences in the form of concerts and visits to hospitals, can use music as an environmental treatment in individual care for patients. Whether they live in a nursing home or at home, it is very good for many older people. I refer you to the comments The Progress Party is on in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3459	The centre party will support this very important proposal by the Labour Party to have a municipal action plan to strengthen the mental health of the elderly, where both prevention and health-promoting activities should be seen in the context and better diagnosis of mental illness in the elderly. I thought we should take the proposal very seriously, because even if a lot has been done, this is a problem that is getting too little attention in the Norwegian health care system. It is quite serious that one does not detect mental health problems in the elderly. Older men over 85 years of age are the group of men with the highest risk of suicide. The Roadmap for Mental Health is addressed in the proposed document 8. The plan was successful and led to a significant expansion of service provision in the municipalities. The evaluation showed that, but she also showed that we should do more. Norwegian Psychologists' Association has made important contributions that support it. I react when the Council of State writes – and representatives from the government here place great emphasis on – that everything is as it should be. As the government party, the Christian People's Party and Left write in the setting: ‘ so much has been done in this field and it is not appropriate to go ahead with an additional action plan.’ [[...]] I don't think everyone experiences it this way in the service. It is referred to as the Golden Rule, but we know from Samdata for 2014 and 2015 that the opposite has happened – so this has increased more than psychiatry. Day activity places are important in this regard. It is a pleasure that it will now be an obligation for the municipalities to offer it. Everyone's talking about municipalities not using the bill. No one talks about why. That's because the design is too bad. We have proposed that one should increase the rate of increase, but it has been voted down many times, and that is regrettable. Finally, I would like to show that the Centre Party has put forward a good deal of proposals that fit into this – a Document 8 proposal to ensure rehabilitation and physical training at the hospital, a proposal for a mandatory escalating plan for the establishment of day-to-day activities, and a five-year municipal action plan for mental health work in municipalities. But we support this proposal by the Labour Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3475	For the Left, mental health and health interventions are very important. When we do not support these proposals, it is because for four years we have had – I would say – an adventurous opportunity to make an effort and bring Norway forward in the field of mental health and health. In the ‘People’s Health Communication: Mestring and Opportunities’, for which I was delighted to be the case rapporteur, we equated for the first time work on mental health with other public health work. Only that in itself was a progress. Finally, mental health was taken seriously. We have allocated a lot of money, among other things. to employ more psychologists in the municipalities. I am very happy to have been able to contribute with it for four years. A lot more municipalities have acquired that capacity. There will certainly be a lot to say for municipalities to make their own municipal action plans. We have also legalised ergoterapeuter from 2020. I am sure that will do something about both innovation and organisation in the care and care sectors in the municipalities. The primary health teams were introduced in the primary care message. Many structural adjustments have been made. There is also a significant increase in professional capacity, so the municipalities are well equipped to meet the major challenge ahead of 2040. It is precisely in the years ahead towards 2025 that we have the opportunity to adapt to the future we will meet with ever more older than 80 years. Then it's a little strange to think back to the fact that a large minority here in the Chamber voted against the municipal reform and will not have future welfare municipalities that can be adapted to that capacity, at least not contribute to structuring them for the future. That's what we have to do now, when we have the time window with an extremely good economy and have not yet got the big growth in the number of older people. Last week was the first conference on a national mental health strategy in Norway. It is also going to include the elderly. For the left, I have to say that much has been done for mental health and strengthening that field over four years. I am pleased that we can contribute in the next four years to build up further. Therefore, we will use the resources and energy for measures other than to overestimate the work of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3490	Let it be clear: Elders have similar requirements for diagnosis of both somatic and mental health disorders, as well as proper and appropriate treatment. We have launched a series of measures in the areas in which the proposers in the proposal are involved. We have presented a strategy for an age-friendly society: several years – more opportunities. The strategy shows that all sectors can help older people to live active and independent lives and participate more in society. The Directorate-General for Health will provide a guide on the work of health care services in the field of health promotion and healthy ageing. In 2017, the Directorate for Health shall also issue national technical advice on the content and organisation of offers to elderly people with mental illness, both in the primary and specialist health services. Together with the cooperation parties, we have increased the grants for activities directed by non-governmental organisations and senior centres that work to counteract loneliness and inaction and stimulate social and physical activities as a concrete follow-up to the public health communication. In August, we will present a mental health strategy covering all age groups, including the elderly. We have focused on increasing the capacity, competence and quality of care services. An important measure is to strengthen the commitment to skills development. We've strengthened the investment grant to the happy day care centers and created our own dementia plan in close cooperation with people who have dementia, and their closest. We have a right to hospital or similar accommodation. It has been absolutely necessary to put these changes in place before we start a quality reform in the service of the elderly, living all our lives. The aim of the reform is, inter alia, to: helping older people to master their whole lives, both with physical and mental challenges. The reform will be in cooperation with those who need the services, those who provide the services and those who are responsible for the services. We're going out into the country and we're going to listen to those who need it – those who have the shoes on. We are going to create the patient's and relatives' health and care services, which we are creating a quality reform for the elderly. I look forward to presenting the results of this work in a separate message to Stortinget. We have strengthened the mental health work in the municipalities, increased the number of annual shifts in the care services, not least to a significant increase in the number of psychologists in the municipalities, and introduced and recently adopted a legal requirement for municipalities to have psychological competence. It will provide a good basis for providing content also in the supply of mental health for older people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3513	We hear quite often that when the Workers' Party is in opposition and makes good suggestions, they are rejected on the grounds that we are opening doors. I wish we did! At that time, we would not have had to deal with older people's policies here in the United Kingdom, whether in the case of diet plans, greater efforts at activity or this – a commitment to the mental health of the elderly. There is no doubt that the Association of Psychologists is right in saying that the measures we have do not take older ones. Nor does the legalisation of psychological competence guarantee that older people will meet – we do not even know how large these positions will be. So my question is: Since the Minister of Health is going to come up with a municipal plan or a health plan for mental health – I don't remember what he called it – in August, can he say a little about what it is that will specifically target the mental health of the elderly? And is that different from what we're now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3520	I think the Psychologists' association might have a different assessment than the representative in terms of the law decision to require psychological competence in the municipalities. The Psychological Association posted on its website that it was a historic day for mental health. I had to remind the Association of Psychologists that yes, I fully agree, but the Labour Party voted against. Having psychological competence in municipalities — not least strategically — is an important prerequisite for municipalities to have both a good prevention and a good health offer in mental health, regardless of age. There is an overall mental health strategy presented in August, covering all age groups, and not only the municipal services, but also the specialist health service. It is a strategy that Norway has not had to now, and which, in our opinion, we are also obliged to have after the decisions taken in the World Health Organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3529	My reference to the Psychologists' Association was not a question of lawmaking of professionals or not – it is a fact that the law does not say anything about the size of the psychologists' positions in the municipalities. It is a fact that the elderly today cannot be seen to have poor mental health. So I want to drill a little bit more into it and hear if the Council of State has any thoughts about what we've put forward in this proposal – whether it can match any of what he thinks he's going to put forward in August, and whether he can give some examples of what he thinks is going to specifically target the mental health of the elderly and the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3536	First, I fully agree with the description that the mental health of older people does not receive enough attention today. This is one of the reasons why the government and the cooperation parties have been so clear about taking full advantage of mental health, even though we have jointly said that what we want to prioritise is a stepping-up plan for – as a follow-up to the strategy put forward for the autumn – children and young people’s mental health. The strategy put forward for the autumn will also match well what is the intention of this proposal, namely to strengthen the supply of mental health to the elderly, for this is a strategy covering the whole service, from prevention to treatment, and all age groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3543	Interestingly, the Council of State says that much of what is involved in this proposal can become part of what he has thought. But then my question is why the government parties and the state council cannot open the doors and say that this was a good idea, we are taking this into account in the strategy – because that is what our proposal is about, that a plan of action for the mental health of the elderly should be included in the announced strategy. Isn't it a bit tempting to say that you can be a part of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3548	This is actually a line that is a repetition of the Workers' Party, because – as the representative himself was involved – very often promote representatives from the Workers' Party who are involved in work started by the government and the cooperation parties, in order to try to get their marks off. But we have this tradition – and so did the Workers' Party when they put in government: A vote is not for proposals related to work that are already in progress, and as a experienced person is actually a selection proposal to try to show that one is occupied by the same thing as the government and the cooperation parties are working with. Such proposals are often put to the vote in Stortinget – they were also when the Workers' Party was put into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3553	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3571	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3580	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Workers' Party for promoting this proposal and the Committee for a good cooperation on the matter. It's important to draw up a slightly longer perspective here. We end another four-year session in Stortinget these days, and then I'll think back and reflect: have I been allowed to make a difference? Yeah, I could say that. We decide in this case today to get an investigation that is actually 30 years ago the last time we got in Norway. For those of us, those who have a diagnosis within the autism spectrum, and their relatives, not least, we make an important difference. We have probably been a little impatient along the way, because when it comes to a Norwegian public investigation, it takes some time to set up a sample, and it takes some time to work through such an investigation. Then there may be a big message – yes, the years may go, and it is very important help we should give to them. But impatience has gone beyond patience. Those who have made recordings along the way in dealing with the matter have earnestly asked us to take time. They have waited so long that it is important that this is good. And we could take that time. There are many actors to interact with, and that is why it is important. We have started to establish package processes within different diagnostics in Norway. This applies to the individual patient. In this case, I would probably prefer to say that it is perhaps public Norway that needs a package trajectory. There are so many resources and actors to interact with, and there are transitions in a vulnerable life where it is not always possible for a person to find out without having a very thorough roadmap or orientation map. There will be many tasks for the relatives, and therefore in many cases one will also end up with one who may be sickly reported and in the long term ill. So we have to, both for those who are involved, and for those who are related, get these resources to play better together, find together and find out until the relatively few we're talking about here, because it's through a life course we're going to organize. Now that we're in 2017, I really expect, when we have so much resources and so much expertise, that we're better at packing these resources together.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3593	This is policy at its best. Here we've been able to agree. It started in February with an interpellation and it ends here for the time being, but this is just the beginning – this is going to be common political thinking. Autism and Tourettes need children, young people, adults and the elderly. It also needs the relatives. Thank you very much to the entire committee and to the co-rapporteur, Karin Andersen, thank you very much to the Council of State and not least to the rapporteur, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, who has dealt well with this matter through the Committee. What this is all about is that we all see that the offer and follow-up of children, young people, adults and the elderly in the autism spectrum and the Tourettes doesn't hold up, so we have to do something about it. So the goal is for this group to have a worthy and good individual follow-up, regardless of where you live. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Today, it's pure bingo which help and follow-up you get, and of course we can't sit still and watch that. A NOW is not a guarantee of a good result. That is why it is important that we now combine a good sample, find a good mandate, that we work with the target in that sample, and that we add some political leadership for the follow-up and offer of the future to this group. I have good faith that we can succeed in this, as long as we are able to get such a common political mindset on this topic that we are getting here today. What makes it a little bit complicated, of course, is that this isn't just about health. This is about education, it's about work, it's about social security, it's about leisure. This is about a number of agencies that are going to interact to make life the best possible for the people involved, and for them around, and it's about a number of agencies, a number of instances that we need to add more competence, and that we need to provide tools to cooperate better. And not least we need to strengthen the field of practice, as we see fail very often. But all in all: this gives hope to all those who are struggling out there, and unfortunately there are too many of them, who today are not getting a good enough offer. In addition, we have put in an urgent action where we are very clear that we expect better cooperation between specialist health services and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3608	Every year in Norway, 50 children with autism are born, 50 children are born with changes in the brain leading to a wide range of developmental disorders. Common to them are unusual social interactions and communication and a limited stereotyped pattern of behaviour, interests or activities. A site between 3000 and 5000 children and adults has this diagnosis in Norway today. According to the Autism Association, there is no single cause for autism. Likely, the cause of autism is different from that of children to children. Researchers today believe that the main explanation is changes in the brain, and there is a consensus that hereditary and neurobiological factors are of great importance. Autism is a diagnosis that often requires lifelong organisation and follow-up. Unfortunately, there is no curative treatment, and treatment is therefore directed towards changing the particular symptoms and signs of the child. The objective of autism treatment is to change specific symptoms and signs and depend on the age of the child and the needs of the individual child. It is theoretically possible to use the option of free treatment at other centres of expertise and health establishments, but it may be difficult and practically impossible to leave for treatment. As the acceptance that the child is likely to have a disability grows, so do thoughts, desires and hopes for a good future for the child. It was then felt unfair to be denied the best follow-up in the area because someone happened to live in the wrong state. In conclusion, both the Progress Party and the Right therefore consider it nice that a unanimous committee now supports the establishment of a comprehensive plan, a plan with several objectives, and where one of them is to give all related access to the best treatment for its children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3619	I think it's great that a joint committee now says it's time for a new review of the autism field. That's very good. Since autism can be a broad range of expressions, several different diagnostics related to each other, the knowledge and competence of the people and services that meet and care for the individual is required. A common denominator for autists is, however, the need for a holistic and lifelong follow-up, and good and individual organisation and assistance are essential at many levels, both from the municipality, Nav and the specialist health service. Everyone needs and must have the individual follow-up just as they need it, individually. A basic principle for Norwegian healthcare is the right to equivalent services. There is no need to say which municipality you live in, or which hospital you belong to, as to which follow-up you should receive. Everyone shall receive the same follow-up regardless of diagnosis and shall be entitled to equivalent services. However, the Committee points out that very many families with children with autism experience that the auxiliaries do not provide the help and follow-up needed to enable individuals to live a decent life, and that often it is a matter of lack of priority, lack of competence and lack of interaction — and in some places also of poor attitudes. Individual plans and a responsible coordinator are often lacking, and relatives can look for who is really responsible. The Christian People's Party hopes today's decision is the start of a work that, overall, provides a better offer to the individual in this patient group: proper and early diagnosis, increased cooperation with specialist health services, the municipality and relatives, increased knowledge and increased attention, both in the municipality and specialist health services, in the years to come. The Christian People's Party would like to thank the proposers, who lift up a group that is often deprived and forgotten. It is an important and good proposal, and the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of both proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3634	The representative, Morten Wold, made a good statement to the Right and the Progress Party's common position on this matter. I also want to thank, on behalf of us, especially for the commitment that Mr Freddy de Ruiter has had in this matter, and we are very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that supports both a NOW and a more committed cooperation between the specialist health service and the municipalities. In many ways, this case shows the Storting at its best. It also shows that the commitment to strengthening and improving the provision of children and young people and families affected by autism-spectrum disorders or Tourette syndrome is present with us all in the Committee. It's the Storting at its best.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3641	I can join in what the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen just said. I would also like to thank the representative Freddy de Ruiter for having been a proponent in this matter, both with the interpellation, and now to get to this proposal, and also to get to the piece of art that it is really to get a joint committee to stand behind both proposals in the recommendation. The proposals will be supported by the centre party. We thought the clarifications made in the committee procedure were wise. I'm not going to mention what has been said about people with autism or Tourette's syndrome. I think it's good that the NOU and the selection to look at this, also expands the scope a little and looks at it not only against one diagnosis, but a little bit further. That makes sense to me. Proposal II in the recommendation is a good thing that one should notice first, where one should look at health professionals and municipalities for better cooperation, and that a priority should be given to early diagnosis, follow-up and guidance of autism-spectrum disorders. In fact, this proposal should be unnecessary, because it is the responsibility of healthcare professionals to ensure cooperation when there are young people who have a specialised disease that needs to follow up both hospitals and municipalities. But it's in its place, because we know that there are too many, especially children and families, who experience holes in the system just at this point, that one gets too bad follow-up and for late diagnosis – one doesn't get at all what one needs. So the Central Party will support both proposals for decisions in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3652	The February inter-pell debate on offer to people with autism showed considerable agreement in the Storting on the current situation and measures to improve the service. Some municipalities and hospitals have good cooperation and satisfaction with users, while other users experience a working day that is demanding, where they themselves become coordinators of the service provision. Not least the case is related. Users experience too wide a variation in competence and availability. Autism is a diagnosis that requires lifelong organisation and follow-up, but how many can master everyday life and have a high quality of life if they receive a knowledge-based offer with security and continuity of service. Other groups of users with severe congenital or acquired disabilities also have the same needs. Improvements must be made through cooperation between national and local authorities for the benefit of all user groups and through changes in the regulation of services. Persons with autism must receive a service offer based on their needs. I understand that an overall committee is asking the government to set up a selection to propose measures to strengthen the autism field. Autism is a serious condition that needs special attention, and I agree that the work should also include related diagnosis. I will inform the Storting about the mandate for such work and how work can ensure that the decision of the Storting is respected. On the same line, the government will also follow up the NOU and draw up a strategy plan for people with disabilities. The plan will show how we will ensure cross-sectoral and administrative coordination, and it will also contain concrete measures. Many professional environments and user groups want quality registers. The health region is responsible for the establishment, development and operation of the quality registers, and the national unit of competence for autism may apply to the health region for the establishment of such a register. The size of the population also decides today that health enterprises must give priority to early diagnosis, follow-up and guidance and stimulate commitment to cooperation between health enterprises and municipalities. I will follow up this decision and use data from the Norwegian patient registry to get a better overview of the diagnosis of autism in line with my response to the committee and the committee's comment. There is also reason today to congratulate the representative Freddy de Ruiter on an important breakthrough, which will be followed up and which will also have cross-political support, and which is an important work to be undertaken now for a group in need of a better offer than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3676	I am very pleased that the Council of State generally thinks in the same way as I do. Just a few small clarification issues: in the case of immediate action, can the Council of States be even a little more specific on how he thinks it can be implemented, in view of the binding cooperation agreements? And what is the time perspective of the Council of State regarding the reduction of a sample to come with a NOU?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3682	First of all, it is natural to follow the decision of the Storting today in future mission documents to the health regions. Whether it happens during the autumn or in the 2018 mission document, I almost get back to. It is important that that kind of mission is well prepared. As for the further schedule for the NOO, it's too early for me to say something about it today. But it starts with work with a mandate and with a composition. One knows that the government's work in August is very focused on budgetary work, so the progress of this work I almost have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3689	Today we had a very pleasant visit. It was the Autism Association in Norway and the Norwegian Tourette Association that were here to celebrate – in advance – the decision of the Stortinge in the evening/night, which is likely to be unanimous. It was very pleasant, and they had a lot of good professional input. What they're obviously concerned about is that these professional recordings are kept, and that they also get a solid representation of such a sample. Is this what the Council of State will consider in the preparation for this sample to be reduced, ensuring good user involvement both in the sample and also in the input, and perhaps also in the context of mandates?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3694	Yes, I can definitely answer yes. In the range that we have reduced, there is always good representation from users and relatives, and that will of course be in this work as well. There's always a limited number of places to work with a NOU, so that means that not all organisations that want to join in get involved. But it is also very clear that in a NOU work, one is not only dependent on the competence of those in the sample; one also has the opportunity to work protracted, to have recording meetings and also to attract organisations and others who have not been given the opportunity to be a member of the sample. And this, of course, will also be reflected in a mandate, a job to get input from users, that's a prerequisite for that kind of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3699	First of all, thank you to the Council of State for the goodwill on this matter, and – as he explained – the sample work to be done. My question may be a little general: in Norway we are relatively late in diagnosing the autism spectrum, especially for autists, or for those who have the most common forms of autism. My hypothesis is that it's a symptom that has survived from a previous assumption that this was a disease spectrum that belonged to the psychiatry, while it's somatic, it's biology. So one hangs a little bit behind. My hypothesis is that you've been hanging out a little bit since you've been in that category and not in the somatic. Does the Council of State have to confirm that hypothesis?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3706	No, I don't dare. But I hope that the sample work can confirm or invalidate that hypothesis, and possibly provide the necessary measures, because it is clear that early and correct diagnosis is important in order to provide the right help.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3711	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3729	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3738	This is absolutely an important matter and of great importance to the people involved. That is why I am very happy that the matter has come. Today there are about 50,000 people with chronic wounds, and these will largely need coordinated multidisciplinary help. Chronic wounds are defined in two main groups: pressurised wounds and different types of leg ulcers. Chronic wounds on the feet and legs are often caused by illness and/or lifestyle, while pressure ulcers are most often seen in the elderly and lying in bed. We know that in the years to come health and care services will face more users with one or more chronic disorders that will require long-term follow-up, and we note that for example. Diabetes-related ulcers are increasing. We also know that many of these wounds can be prevented, and that in any case it is important to bet on good treatment of the underlying disease. It is also important to work for, among other things. reduction of obesity, increased physical activity, good hygiene and proper nutrition. These are important measures to prevent, and they remind us of the individual's responsibility to make good and healthy choices, cf. The public health report, which the Stortinget has also dealt with. I would also like to point out that most of the practical wound treatment by chroniclers is done in the municipal health service, and that primary health teams will be an important measure with targeted prevention work, both primary and secondary prevention. I also believe it is important to point out that some municipalities and hospitals have developed particularly good measures in wound treatment, and that the professional community calls for more outpatient wound centres. I have to say that I agree with the proposers that the development of competence in wound treatment is important for employees both in the community health service and in the specialist health service. I would also like to point out that the national guideline for diabetes has recently been revised and that it provides recommendations on the prevention of ulceration and wound treatment. I expect that most of the parties who have proposals in the case will explain their views on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3755	Norwegian healthcare is based on important principles, including: the right to an equivalent offer and the priority to be given to the sick. After almost four years in the committee, Kjersti Toppe and I were present at an eye-catching seminar in December where we were confronted with a group – chronic wound patients – in which I had not received the insight I received during these four years during this day. It is quite right that the rapporteur said that they amount to 50 000. An increase is expected as a result of older people, an increase in weight among the population and more with diabetes. Chronic wound patients have low health status. They often live with constant pains without the possibility of relief, with little sleep, much guilt, and in a state between despair and hope, with fear of amputation. The ulcers smell, look bad and can be difficult to treat. It can lead to social isolation, and patients experience that much of the active life stops. Chronic wound patients are a severely suffering patient group, but have good prognosis with proper treatment. Treatment of chronic ulcers is very costly, but it is obviously beneficial to provide a good supply to patients with ulceration. Today's offer is fragmented. Only in Haukeland University Hospitals, patients are treated at 20 different clinics, and municipalities have very different competences. The Diabetes Association suggests that leg ulcers are among the most common complications of diabetes, and too many have to amputate. In 2014, 413 amputations were performed in people with diabetes in Norway. New studies show that with proper treatment the number of amputations can be reduced by a total of 80 pst. The Labour Party believes that regional wound outpatient clinics should be established and that we should learn from Denmark, which is using telemedicine to reach the wound patients via home disease care and treatment. Wound treatment should also be part of the syllabus of health education. Chronic wound patients experience being wasteballs in the system. Today’s funding of wound treatment equipment means that many patients experience being part of a black-out game between home health care, permanent and outpatient clinics. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to take a national responsibility for developing a comprehensive patient offer for chronic wound patients and to reduce the number of amputations. We record that there is a majority in the form of an annotation for it, but in this case, which in most of the course of this four-year period, remains outside the scope of the proposal so that the proposal does not have a majority in any more than the form of an observation. We're sorry about that. Chronic wound patients had earned it. In doing so, I am promoting the joint proposal from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3770	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3775	As others have said, we're assuming it's approx. 50000 people in Norway with chronic ulcers, and that about 15 000 of these have active wounds with ongoing treatment at all times. The average age is 75 years for those who have wounds, so good adult people, and there's reason to think that the number will increase as people live longer. In addition, this patient group has low health status, and many of them live with constant pain. Many have reduced the quality of life, even though they would have had good predictions with proper treatment. Treatment of chronic wounds is expensive, often because the material is expensive. It costs a lot to the individual patient who has wounds, but socio-economically it is obviously beneficial to give the patients a good offer. As many have said, Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom have a good professional environment at the university level that conducts active research on wound treatment. We shouldn't be worse. From the part of the country I come from, different municipalities have chosen different ways of organising wound treatment. Stavanger Municipality has a nursing outpatient clinic. In Eigersund, a separate specialist group in home health care is responsible for the wound treatment. They have worked closely with well-functioning wound out clinics and have thus reduced the duration of treatment, and the proportion of those who heal their wounds has increased considerably. Another example is the cooperation between the wound outpatient clinic at Flekkefjord Hospital and the municipalities around it. It has shown that they have managed to succeed with the entire 90 pst. of all wounds, which have been healed because they are being treated correctly. That's great. The Diabetes Association suggests that foot ulcers are among the most common complications in their target population. Diabetics are also an increasing group of patients. Many people experience undetected wounds for a long time, and the result is amputation. Often these patients are also casteballs in a system: medics, home care and specialist healthcare – care is incredibly different, despite the fact that it is a large patient group. This patient group deserves an overall approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3788	It strikes me that with all the representative proposals we have today on the various diseases, we are almost into one semester of some health-profession course. Now I'm listening to those who were on the pulpit before me, so I don't have to repeat anything about patients with wounds in Norway, and we're all learning a little bit. That's true, what the representative Ruth Grung said. She and I were at a seminar, and I also learned more about this patient group. Because it's like if you're here at the Storing or there doing other things, there's some patient groups that are difficult, and that we're less concerned about than other patient groups. The wound patients are such a group. I was also made aware that they cost the health service quite a lot. In Sweden, they have calculated that they represent 1.5 pst. of the total health budget. I haven't seen the corresponding bill for Norway, but it costs a lot both in human suffering because you can't be at work, need care, etc., but also in bandages, and there are long-term diseases that require a lot. What's good is that it's possible to do something about it, so that we can ensure more systems in the course of treatment. Today, many people have a good offer, and different representatives can tell about a good project in their municipality or in their region, and I can also tell you about it. They're good at this on Stord, it was with and fear the local hospital there, because this they had competence in, but there must be a system for it, it can't be entirely dependent on local fireplaces. This is a responsibility a health care provider must take. This makes it possible to create decentralised services, where a good partner will be with the community health services where these patients live and need follow-up, and they will call for the wound clinics that should be an offer in all regions, which all patients could get. The point is that there are too many wound patients who go too long with inadequate treatment and who could have been healthy before. Then there's a point with foot therapists, which in Norway is too poorly funded. The patients have to pay for it themselves. Then there is also a problem with who has to pay bandages, regardless of whether you go to home care or to the doctor. That's what I hope the Council of State can get into its article. I'm dealing with the Central Party proposal on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3805	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3810	Much has been said about the challenge picture – and the left shares it. In the case of competences that are different, but also organised differently, there is a quite correct description of both what is happening in the community health service, which is different, and what is happening in hospitals, which are also surprisingly different. For the left, it's important that we work with the tariffs to change this, but that we also work with the telemedicine, so that it gets used. There is no reason why it should not be used on a larger scale than we have now done in Norway. Another moment that I want to point to is, for example, that left has been passed through so that we now have to have a diabetes plan. It is in progress and will also include this. For us, it is more important to push there, so that the measures to be taken are taken. Then I will also point to the system of self-interest. It is a challenge not only for bandages and materials, but also for example. nutrition drinks, for which it is not so easy to get a refund – a regular regular resident hardly knows how to refund this, and the patient himself has to spend quite a long time. Some have been and seen how this is done in good wound outpatient clinics – Flekkefjord Hospital has been promoted, and Lister cooperated. Even I have had – to bring out more witnesses – a wound patient in the house, so I have followed the course. There's a lot of things that we have to do. For self-participation: When we are now going to have a review with a view to coordinating the balances at a single ceiling from 2018, more attention should be paid to definitely wounding aids, whether bandages, food drinks or whatever they are, in order to make it easier to identify both for individual patients and for professionals to refer to. Then I also want to point to local medical centres – we only have twelve of them in Norway so far. When we talk about wound out clinics, it's a good opportunity for local medical centers to take advantage of the technology that we so badly need to implement. It is also about these tariffs, and the competences which do not necessarily need to be in all municipalities or in all home services, and which can be well coordinated regionally, for example. in local medical centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3823	The government is committed to improving the prevention and treatment of chronic wound patients and to ensuring a comprehensive and coherent treatment provision for this patient group. Some experience that coverage of wound care material may appear random and varied. The same applies to competence and practice both in the local health service and in the specialist health service. The government is working to avoid undesired variation and increase the competence of the service, but there is no basis for supposing that healthcare wound treatment is generally irresponsible. There is a lot of activity to improve the quality of wound treatment. Prevention and treatment of diabetic foot ulcers is central to the revised diabetes guideline. National guidelines for the use of antibiotics in specialised and primary health services have their own subchapters for the treatment of post-operative ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers and infected, veneous leg ulcers. It is mandatory for all hospitals to participate in the Norwegian Monitoring System for Antibiotic Use and Health Associated Infections. The Public Health Institute investigates the occurrence of such infections and antibiotic use in Norwegian hospitals. Prevention of pressure ulcers in hospitals and hospitals is an input into the national patient safety programme. An action package for the prevention of pressure ulcers has been developed in hospitals and hospitals and has been in use since 2013. Individual wound and diabetes clinics have been established in many health firms and in some municipalities, and continuous wound treatment courses are being conducted. As the proposers themselves mention, there is provision for further training in wound treatment in Norway. The content of the training shall respond to the needs of healthcare. Funding and organisation for wound treatment depend on where the service is provided. This is a general issue for healthcare and is not specific to wound treatment. The municipality is responsible for providing necessary and sound services, but is free to organise services in such a way that they are adapted to local needs. Follow-up to the primary health service notification will facilitate increased competence in municipal health and care services, improved management and cooperation within and between levels of service. There are several measures in place to improve the quality and competence of wound treatment, and the government cannot see that at this stage there is a basis for changing the financing of medical consumables.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3846	As I mentioned in my post, at least the Diabetes Association shows that 413 amputations have been carried out in 2014. There is a significant number, and trials in both Norway and other countries also show that good prevention can be achieved both by avoiding wounds and by reducing the number of serious outcomes such as amputations. The Norwegian wound healing community points to the fact that when HELFO changed the reimbursement system in 2012, several of these patients experienced that they became a caste ball. The municipality refused to treat them in the home care and transferred them to the caretaker, so that they had to pay for the bandages themselves. Is it not clear that we should review the funding system in order to support it under the good and comprehensive treatment provision aimed at both prevention and those who are exposed to wounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3855	I perceive that there is a general issue related to reimbursements of various types of activity and material that cannot be a governing factor for the service. Municipalities have overall responsibility for primary health services in this area as well. We see many good examples of municipalities organizing this work in a good way, for example: in setting up their own wound outpatient clinics for people with special needs, resulting in good results. I am concerned that the municipalities take the responsibility they have in this area, and look at others who have found good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3862	It is quite right that some municipalities, perhaps a handful of what we have been recorded on – Haugesund is one of them, Austrheim is another – have managed to organize good offers for this group. As we were in various articles, it's a very vulnerable group. It's not a group that very many people stand for. When they so clearly say that there is a link between the funding system and treatment provision, and that it has been exacerbated since 2012, should you not then go in and try to see if there is a context, whether or not there is a need to rectify something, rather than just hold on to a change? After all, it's been a few years, and the number of amputations is still very high.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3869	I think it would be to draw it too far to say that this change that was made, as far as before I became Minister of Health, is the cause of the high number of amputations. It's been a problem for a long time. Therefore, the prevention and treatment of diabetic foot ulcers has now become a very central part of the revised diabetes guideline. The four health regions have also been agreed as late as 22 May this year on four very clear principles for improving the responsibilities of wound treatment, as agreed by the trade union directors and which are now being followed up in the various health regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3876	The centre party makes a proposal asking the government to take action to make foot therapy a more accessible and inclusive provision in the public health service. In the setting, it says about Germany, where patients with diabetes have the right to three interviews with a foot therapist in one year. In Norway there is no such arrangement. Patients will have to pay this on their own, and it will not be covered by a self-employed participation. Will the Council of State assess whether something is going to happen in this area in view of what the Council of State has said that there will be more focus on prevention, especially in patients with diabetes, but perhaps also with other chronic diseases, where one is destined to develop chronic wounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3883	Wound treatment is one of the basic services of a primary health service. I expect that the vast majority of those who work in primary health care, whether they're in home health care or someone's permanent, can handle wound treatment. I want to look with scepticism at thinking that one should establish wound treatment in the primary health service as a special service funded alongside. I think that will only reinforce what is already a problem in the primary health service, namely siloorganisation. Then I have much more faith in building up around what Stortinget has also joined in the primary health report, namely the establishment of primary health teams and follow-up teams in the municipalities, which is just ensuring multidisciplinary follow-up, not least by the chroniclers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3890	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3908	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3917	First of all, thank you to the Committee on Structural Cooperation. The decision-makers are an important topic, and we also see that the Committee unanimously supports many of the comments on this matter. Insofar as there is disagreement, the list lengths shall apply. The majority of the Committee considers that it is not appropriate to reduce the lists on a general basis, but a joint committee agrees that an evaluation of the fixed medical system is needed. This and previous debates show that it is appropriate. We spend a lot of resources on health in Norway, and primary healthcare is an important part of this. Decision-makers are one of the pillars of this part of healthcare and it is essential to ensure good coverage. Of course, we can do that by recruiting more, but we can also do a lot of work. The tasks are gradually changing, the population base is changing, and so we have to make sure that this part of healthcare is changing, as it does of course all the way. One thing is certain, we can't meet all the health care challenges of recruiting more people alone. The Primary Health Communication described a wide range of responses to the challenges. The challenge picture and the proposals for a necessary further development have been joined by Stortingen, and we are well aware that the government is working to follow this up. Comparisons show that Norway is better off than many in terms of fixed-term coverage, but there are challenges, especially one in some parts of the country, in the districts, among others. This is not a new issue and has more explanations. It is the responsibility of municipalities to recruit professionals in all parts of the primary health service, but of course we have overall responsibility here in the UK to ensure access to health professionals in Norway. The State has a number of instruments that can help to facilitate better recruitment, but ultimately it is the municipalities that have to take the necessary decisions. Primary health care doctors perform tasks on behalf of municipalities. It is the municipalities that have to provide adequate medical coverage in order to comply with the requirements imposed on the municipality by the regulations and other relevant legislation. It is, however, that municipalities have the same responsibility for recruiting many different types of health professionals, but we see that getting regular doctors is a special challenge. The Council of State is clear in its response to the Committee: the Government will stimulate better recruitment. A grant scheme for the recruitment of fixed doctors and compensation measures in the general medical service shall be established again. The right considers that the primary responsibility of the prescriber is medical treatment and medical clarifications. Nevertheless, we know that doctors spend a lot of time on other more administrative or routine work. It is a point to take into account in this debate that when someone proposes that other professional groups take over or cooperate in medical tasks, this is a quick resistance from medical teams. Fortunately, the government is well-informed about the measures decided upon by the primary health notification. It will help both patients and doctors to improve their daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3938	There is a broad political consensus that it is health-promoting when patients get a better overview of the treatment process, mobilise their own resources and get good guidance on the possibilities for combining health and work. Good care professionals are the very hub between patients and increasingly complex health services. But in recent years, we have seen an increasing problem with recruiting permanent staff, not only in the districts, but also in cities like Stavanger, Bergen and Tromsø. A survey in 2014 shows that every fifth municipality with less than 20,000 inhabitants lacks a regular or medical doctor and solves it with frequent substitute fat. One in three permanents is over 55 years of age. It's also a challenge that a total of 50 pst. Norwegian medical students are educated abroad, where general medicine as a subject is consistently little priority. 90 pst. health services are provided outside hospitals. It is an objective that patients in the future should be met closer at home. If we are to succeed in better prevention, early and correct health care and overall follow-up of chroniclers and the elderly, we need to put in place measures to improve the recruitment of fixed doctors. Norway is a country with its own general education, and only those with general practice have to resume their education and be re-certified every five years. It also provides opportunities to ensure quality. But urgent action is needed. It is not enough just to leave it to the municipalities alone, not just to wait for the evaluation of the recruitment measures that have been in the last few years. Primary health teams will also not solve the recruitment challenges alone. This is why the Workers' Party has proposed measures to ensure that we have a comprehensive approach to improve and ensure the recruitment of permanent workers throughout the country. We need to ensure that future doctors receive more training in general medicine during the studies, and that half of the practice remains with a regular practitioner, in a health centre, in a nursing home and in a medical care centre. The Workers' Party believes that we should consider following the students with practical funding and strengthening their guidance skills. We believe that educational positions are a good tool for young doctors to be safe and good managers of the gatekeeper role. It provides room for good guidance in a professional community. Starting as a regular may also be a heavy financial burden for many young doctors. The ALIS-Vest project is a good example, where several Western municipalities cooperate on the organisation of new doctors in educational positions with good guidance and practice both in district municipalities and in the municipality of Bergen. The government had almost forgotten the decision-makers when it presented the primary health message. It's a shame that the government parties wouldn't be part of our proposal to ensure the recruitment of permanents, but it's a pleasure that we get majority comments on the matter. We are promoting the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3955	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3960	Norway has a relatively good fixed-term coverage. Nevertheless, it is often the case that in those places that are far away from medical care and hospitals, you have difficulty recruiting regular doctors. This shows that the recruitment of this scheme is under pressure. In addition, one has recently changed a part of Health Norway in terms of how a worker works. Before, it was often the case that the patient was finished in hospital, and then one wrote out the patient. Now this has changed. After the interaction reform came, it is often the case that the patient is ready for printing, but that does not mean that he/she has completed his/her treatment. This again means that the patients in the municipalities can be healthier than before and, not least, more complex. This means that we need more, and not less, competences in primary health care, and not least the important role of decision-makers. The fixed medical system and the quality of medical guards are closely linked. The County Board of Sogn and Fjordane pointed out that when the interaction reform was introduced, a number of fixed positions were proposed because several tasks were assigned to the municipalities. This development has been reinforced in the form of several tasks — without so many more warrants. It is both a state responsibility and a municipal responsibility to facilitate good recruitment to general medicine. It is also a reality that 50 pst. Norwegian students are educated abroad, where general medicine as a subject is deprioritised. Norway itself should take responsibility for covering a greater part of the education of our students. When we know that some universities in Norway can give students an opportunity to take the master's degree at home in Norway, we can ensure this part of the education ourselves. The University of Stavanger is among those who have such a capacity, but we have not done anything to add more education to Norway. In addition, it is necessary to provide for more education positions in general medicine in order to strengthen their recruitment. One has good projects in some municipalities in Hordaland and in Sogn and Fjordane that show that this is necessary. The Medical Association also believes that the tour system primarily recruits for hospitals. As the complexity of primary health services has increased, it is also the case that many young doctors want to be in a wider environment of competence, which ensures a professional and collegial environment. If we are able to facilitate good local further education, it will allow more people to stay locally. It means the seventh and last time that there must be enough political will to do something about the challenge of the fixed medical system.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3975	Securing the recruitment of permanents is a very important proposal. In a way, this is a warning disaster. We've been listening for years to the fact that there's a failed recruitment of permanents, especially in the districts. Now it's also in central municipalities, so it's an increasing problem in the health service as a whole. We should take that seriously. KS has announced that four out of ten municipalities are working hard today to recruit permanent workers. The Storting should recognise this problem, and look at measures. It's both a state and a municipal responsibility. There are many contributions to this proposal for a representative that it is very important to look at, both in educational settings and in looking at medical training. It is a fact that there is a great deal of emphasis on the practice in hospitals and much less on community health services. This means that you can recruit a local health service later. It is a challenge that so many of the medical students are emigrated abroad. It is also a fact that today's tour system works so that the tour candidates are well-negotiated with the municipalities, and choose more central service locations at Restetorget. This is a big problem for municipalities that repeatedly lose their turn candidate. I think the list length is enough to look at. Fixed pay is another thing that can work in. A district tariff of its own is also the responsibility of some. But one thing that you're forced to talk about when a guy talks about recruiting a regular is medical. This is like hand in glove. The medical and security challenges cause many firmers, especially in the districts, to get a daily life that is extremely tiring. The medical service must be strengthened in order to be able to recruit properly. A few months ago, we presented a proposal for an action plan on accessibility, quality and competence in the Liaison Service. I took the proposal from the government statement, but it was therefore voted down. Nor did the Labour Party, which is now proposing, vote for it a few months ago. It was a bit alarming, but we're not worse than voting in favour of the Labour Party's proposal in this case, because it's very important that we do something about the permanent recruitment in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e3990	This debate is important, but it bears the mark of being a little immature. For the Left, the most important content of this proposal is that we evaluate the reform. It's needed when it's now in service for something over 15 years. It will also be able to chisel out all the measures that have been brought to this square right now, because it is a large number of instruments that are being discussed. In my home country, Uppland, it is currently being discussed in one of the largest cities, Lillehammer, how to recruit permanents, while in the neighbouring municipality of Gausdal, which has more character being district municipality in Uppland, one has gone over to several municipal employees doctors with fixed wages. So here are the different instruments used by the municipalities themselves. As others have been in the room, the medical officer is one of the elephants in the room that we're discussing. There's good reason to discuss how to recruit the medical officers in the future. We need to ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, general practitioners operate the medical guards, who may also eventually become health guards and will cooperate more closely with other health professionals. But many people say that having a doctor is one of the most demanding things in medicine, and that one should recruit to one of the most demanding things, it requires one's own. Then I want to address the medical training and admission requirements and whether we need to discuss in the long term also to differentiate further, because many of the PCs experience working a lot alone. Especially when they come to medical care, they get a stronger sense of it, and out in the districts, one might work even more alone. In North Norway, there is an experience of recruiting on more criteria than on grades; there are some characteristics that you might want to include in the assessment when the future becomes that you should work a lot alone and gather resources around you when you sometimes need it. There's a discussion that needs to come, also related to the number we're training in Norway. We have a high level of medical coverage in Norway, so the volume may not have to go up that much more, but we need to discuss what those who are going to phase into Norway with foreign education are going to get refilled. That is why we must also discuss those educational positions. When 7 out of 10 people who start medical training today are women – almost 8 out of 10 – who are going to start a family, practice firm practices, which are now a very large business, and have medical services, then it is a very challenging job we lead them into. That is why the Left believes that the evaluation of the reform of the law is what we need now, because we are going to focus on having the reform of the law as it has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4005	SV supports the proposal for a larger distribution. The lack of decision-making is perhaps one of the biggest challenges we have in the district health service. On the 15th anniversary of the scheme, last year, the National Center for District Medicine carried out an investigation in which they mapped out the situation. It turns out that one fifth of the residents of Norway who are entitled to it are missing a doctor or a medical practitioner – one fifth. This problem doesn't seem to be getting smaller, it seems to be increasing. Many municipalities don't have enough list places to cover their own population. This leads us into a vicious spiral that often becomes self-enhancing, by the fact that those who have the strength to continue get too long lists and too much workload and get burned out. Ein also sees that one third of private-run permanent homes are subsidized by municipalities, and that most of the permanent residents want a fixed salary. There's a lot of interesting findings in that mapping. Young people probably also look differently in the firm profession than the older garden does. Days that extend far beyond normal working hours, and the experience of being forever at work is often drawn out as a problem. In addition, there will be increased control, tasks, functions, etc. A good professional environment and access to good infrastructure are also called for and pointed out as something that is important to get done. Either way, it's presumptuously time to think again, or say in another way: we have to do things differently than we do today. With the interaction reform and the increasing challenges it has given for the community health service, a lot of the contours of a bigger task than what we've been addressing, at least through practical policy, are looking at now. We all want a regular service that first covers the population. We want her not only to be passive, but also to be right on the outside and on the preventive work. The service should be professional and included in all relevant arenas in the municipal health service and at the same time work well with the specialist services. Then probably not today's system is what can be the answer to it – in that case a radical grip must be done. SV has not finished thinking about this, but an idea from my side – when you want to discuss it more openly – may be that you can look at schemes you have in other countries, for example. the ‘restrictive practices’ scheme in Canada, where one has had good experience in expanding the morbidity role and thus being able to relieve the registrar.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4020	In Norway, a great deal of resources is being used to ensure good health and care services for the population. And we're going to keep doing that. The challenge for municipal health and care services is fully described in the primary health service notification. The size was linked to both the challenge picture and the government’s proposal for the necessary further development of the service when the notification was addressed. Several measures have already been implemented. Of course, the municipalities have to provide adequate medical coverage to meet the requirements of the municipality. This is one of the reasons why there is room in the notification to describe the importance of management and planning competence in the municipality. Municipalities that manage and plan the provision of services well will better address any recruitment challenges. Norway has good fixed medical coverage. The statistics show that we have succeeded in recruiting more permanent staff than population growth requires. These are signs that the recruitment to the permanent profession is under pressure. This is something that is closely followed by the Health Directorate. The government has implemented several measures that will help ensure good recruitment to the primary health service. I have decided to re-establish a grant scheme for municipalities for the recruitment of permanent doctors and empowerment measures in the general medical service. The Government supports two projects for training positions for speciality in general medicine, the aim of which is to improve recruitment and stability. After I have been informed, there is a great deal of interest in participating in this project, which is due to start in the autumn. The project has probably also been strengthened through the revised national budget and the negotiations here in Stortinget. The need for doctors must be seen in conjunction with other staff working in the ministry. Several tasks performed by permanent doctors may also be carried out by nurses. According to the plan, a three-year pilot with primary health teams in selected municipalities will be launched during 2018. The experience from there will provide us with knowledge that points to the direction of future organisation and funding of primary health services. It is important that education prepares students for work and working methods in the health and care services of today and the future. It provides better quality, predictability and stability. The practical part of the education is an important learning arena. The Ministry of Knowledge has recently concluded a consultation on proposals for a new management system for basic health and social education and on a common framework for these. The aim is to ensure that services have an increased influence on professional content and to ensure practical and research-based basic training of high professional quality and relevance.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4037	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4043	As the Council of State had in mind, we dealt with the new framework when we had the primary health message for treatment. It's been a year and a half. The primary health team was one of the measures, and I want to plague the Minister of Health with various questions and among others. to ensure that primary health teams are in place. The question is: is there a content decision? When does the piloting of primary health teams begin? If it hasn't started, why has it taken so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4048	This work is very well going on. There has also been a good anchoring work in all trade unions. The Medical Association, the Nurses' Association, the Trade Union Delta and the Health Directorate have done a good job of preparing the pilot, and one has a plan to launch the pilot in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4054	On average, regular jobs are at least 46 hours per week. Then the doctor comes in as well. We know that there is a large growth – actually too much growth – of women in the medical study now, who probably don't see such a watch load. Does the Council of State see this as a problem? Does the Council of State mean that it should be so in the future that the full basic preparedness provided by the medical services in the community should be driven beyond normal working hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4059	Now I think it's more about generations than about gender. I may not think the men who take medical training are interested in working around the clock either. I think it's more about generations than about gender. It is, of course, a challenge for healthcare that affects, not least, primary health care. A combination of self-practice for which one is financially responsible and at the same time having an obligation to participate in medical care means that one has to work a lot. That's some of the reasons why we want to try out different models, for example. two different models for primary health teams. But we also look at different pilots related to health care, and we look at whether there are other solutions to provide good health care. That's something we're now working on. I agree with the issue and believe that today's debate reflects in many ways the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4065	I agree that it's about generations and not about sex. It was a nice reminder. Still, it's a big problem. Health services, as I understand it, require other professionals to take over some of this preparedness. I would like to ask you again: whether there are any new arrangements, there should be a doctor in the municipalities. Will the State Council soon consider how to implement this during normal working hours, creating pilots at it? And will there be an action plan, as it stands in the government platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4070	It is too early for me now to address the content of various health care pilots, but the intention is, of course, that there should also be medical services available to the population. It's quite obvious. I may be more concerned with action than with action plans in this area, and I believe that important steps have been taken, for example. the fact that we are now demanding that one be regular, that one be either under specialist training or specialist in general medicine. I think that will also be positive for recruitment, because one depends on ensuring that those who take medical training in Norway or abroad, and who want to work in Norway, want to work in this important part of healthcare. I think the debate today has shown that it is the composition of different grips that are probably the solution, and that it is not just about example. the number of permanent teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4077	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4095	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4104	It is an overall committee that determines that music therapy is an important treatment for many patient groups, and that we need to make greater use of a wide range of methods and tools in the treatment and therapeutic work of different patient and user groups. Art and culture have their own ability to touch people – not least in vulnerable situations. It is the qualities and intrinsic qualities of music that are used by music therapists when the goal is to create better health and quality of life. Music has always played a major role in human life. Over time, it has also been understood that music has a health promotion effect. Music and play have long connecting lines in history. Children, young people, adults and older people with mental and learning problems, people with memory loss and dementia and those with drug problems or other physical and mental problems can all benefit from music therapy. Today, music therapists work in different disciplines and in different contexts, such as: in the School of Culture, mental health protection, hospitals, kindergartens and in elderly centres and hospices. In its reply of 8 May to the Committee, the Minister of Health and Health said that music therapy is only one of many recommendations in the guidelines for treatment, and the Council of State – supported by the government parties – further states that the municipalities have all the incentives to consider using music therapy integrated into the services and indicates that 5 million have been allocated. kr for training programmes, environmental management and integrated use of music and singing in health and care services. It's got the head of the institute Frode Thorsen and Professor Brynjulf Stage at the Griegakademiet to send a letter to the committee, pointing out that the current support of 5 million. kr per year goes to music-based environmental treatment, not to music therapy. The argument put forward by the majority – i.e. the majority of the Committee – can therefore be equated with a view to supporting physical activity in environmental treatment in response to a proposal for the development of physiotherapy services. This must well be characterised as a real punishment from a competent academic environment and is an important reminder that music therapy is a form of treatment that is academically based and that can be studied today at the University of Bergen and at Norway’s high school of music – a five-year integrated master’s degree and an annual master’s degree and a two-year master’s degree based on relevant basic education. There is also an offer for a five-year professional training course with masters both in Oslo and Bergen. Music-based environmental treatment is important. No one disagrees, nor is the Grieg Academy, but it is something other than music therapy. So then I'm going to take up the suggestions we're promoting with the Center Party and the Christian People's Party about a broader commitment to education and treatment in music therapy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4119	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4124	I won't sing, it's too late in the day. But «Better and better day by day» was the song that met me and colleague Bård Hoksrud when we visited Lambertseter's old and sick homes a few weeks ago. There are music therapists at the hospital, who have living quarters for demenspacers and other patients. It is well documented that music therapy in dementia and elderly care works very well, against anxiety, against depression and against detoxification. It increases the quality of life of individuals, and it can definitely reduce the use of sedative drugs. As part of the Competence Plan 2020, EUR 5 million was granted for 2017. to further develop and disseminate training programmes on the use of music in care services. I myself had the pleasure of being present as the National Center of Competence for Culture, Health and Care had one of their major training seminars on this at the Gardermoen a few weeks ago. This national competence centre shall contribute to the development and dissemination of environmental therapeutic treatment activities and to the interaction between research, education and practice. Music therapy is also an important therapeutic tool in treatment in other areas of health, including: in the field of drugs and mental health. In the national professional guideline on the investigation, treatment and follow-up of psychoselling patients, music therapy is one of many recommended forms of therapy and treatment. Then it is that if one wants to increase the annual educational capacity of music therapists, which is part of the proposal promoted by the proposers, it is primarily a matter for the Ministry of Knowledge. In the right, we think it is gratifying that there is starting to be Norwegian, relevant research on the use of music therapy. We want such research, and we want more of it. There are funds for such research through the Research Council, and it obviously demands that Norwegian researchers apply for these funds and reach the competition. Music used correctly can be like medicine for many patients. When it's used as an integral part of health care, we can experience meeting the patient more on his or her side of the track. It requires the identification of music preferences and, of course, the appropriate competence of the healthcare professional to perform the therapeutic treatment. The right does not vote for the minority proposals in this setting. It is justified that the government focuses, and has focused, on this, that research efforts are increasing, and that the use of music therapy and other therapeutic treatments, both in the specialist health service and, in particular, in the community health service, is a professional responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4143	Over the last few years, I have been very concerned with music therapy as a form of treatment – from the very beginning, where most people were just so strange to me when I said that this would be part of the future treatment, and up to today. Much has happened, and many have enjoyed such an offer, and I have met many of them. All the answers we have received show that music therapy is today viewed as part of the overall health service. Today, in health, we find music therapists in mental health protection, in drug care, in hospitals, in elderly centres, in hospitals, in hospitals, in hospitals and in prisons. Drug-free treatment services have been requested for several years, which has made it possible for this government to become a reality in all health regions. This means that the drugs have to be replaced by something else, and research has shown that music therapy can be one of these substitutes. In the national professional guideline for the investigation, treatment and follow-up of psycho-sellants, music therapy is now part of the recommendations. Drug-free treatment services are arranged in different ways and have different content. It will be exciting to follow developments in this field as we can gain experience from these new offers. I understand that the music therapists who have received a lot of attention in the last few years are impatient and will go on. Nevertheless, our healthcare is diverse, precisely because patients are different and need different things. By introducing free treatment options, we have facilitated the fact that demand will largely be involved in managing how much and how fast the offer of music therapy needs to be increased. Finally, I would like to say a little about music therapists in the municipal health and care services. We have received music-based environmental treatment as an integral part of care in some municipalities, and the government has given special funding for this. Using music, singing and movement, especially in dementia care, has proved to be very valuable. We may never get there that we have a music therapist in every nursing home, but using music therapists in the municipalities to guide and facilitate music-based treatment will also be a major advance. And then it's also possible to misunderstand comments, if you want to. I'm not going any further into commenting on just such statements. The municipal reform with larger municipalities will give us new opportunities for more professionals who are currently lacking in municipalities, including music therapists, and I would like to welcome it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4164	Culture and art have their own ability to touch people in vulnerable situations, and music in particular seems to communicate in a way that reaches the individual. The individual has his musical form, and the music recreates emotions, experiences, and memories. Sitting with people who have lost their language because of, for example: dementia, and that suddenly gets words and starts singing, is an incredible experience. I experienced it myself with my own mother, who was demented for years. When the music was there, the words came, and the songs came trembling like pearls on a string. I got my mother back in good moments. In the NKS Olaviken old-age psychiatric hospitals, they use music therapy to retrieve resources and create participation, especially when cognitive abilities and languages are impaired. So they use music therapy as an important tool in their treatment. We know what music means for children in their mother's womb, that children recognize the music after it is born, so music is a separate instrument from cradle to grave. The goal must be more music therapists to promote experiences, improve quality of life and better health. Music therapists often disappear in the major health priorities, and therefore the Christian People's Party believes that this field should be raised up and up in health policy. This applies both in the specialist health service and in the community health service. International music therapy is a driving force in research and development of knowledge in this field. Music therapists often have skills that other health professionals can make more use of in their work. For several patient groups, drug use can decrease when music therapy enters as part of the treatment. This is seen in both drug use, mental health and the treatment of cognitive disorders. Music therapy is documented as an effective supplement to medication and conversational therapy. If we are to solve this in a better way in the future than today, the Christian People's Party believes that one of the solutions is more music therapists – as well as using us commonly to join in and sing with our own, but it's something other than music therapy. That is why the Christian People's Party has put forward the proposals with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4175	Norwegian music therapy stands strongly academically, but the implementation of our services is deficient – and Norway lies far behind the corner of the country with which we can compare. For this reason, the Centre has put forward this proposal for a representative, asking the government in dialogue with healthcare professionals to propose stimulating measures for knowledge-based implementation of music therapy in the services. We are also asking for an increase in the national educational capacity of music therapy education and to strengthen the system in the Health Directorate for settings and projects in knowledge-based treatment methods, such as: music therapy, so that they can reach more municipalities and health professionals, and more resources for follow-up research and other relevant research on the implementation of music therapy in services, focusing on user experience and ways of working together. These proposals do not get any plurality, but the Labour Party supports them – partly also the Christian People's Party. So if there's going to be another government after the election, this might be an area for which we can see a little bit different engagement. I hope so. Music therapy has entered into the professional recommendations for both psychosis, intoxication, palliation and dementia. I feel it's being minimized in both the government letter and the setting, that there is only one of many measures. The point is that when there are not enough music therapists, it is a political responsibility to ensure that the professional guidelines that exist can be implemented in the services. The case leader noted that the majority did not understand the difference in music therapy, environmental treatment and integrated use of music and song in health and care services. We're going to have both – both to learn existing health professionals using music and to bet on the profession that specialises in knowledge-based use of music. When it comes to educational capacity, it is important to propose precisely because it is the key to getting this out in the services. According to the Norwegian Association for Music Therapy, there is a need for at least 1,200 music therapists on a national basis to comply with the professional guidelines that are now in force in the services. That means 900 new music therapists in the next few years. With an educational capacity that today, at 24 students a year, it will take 50 years before we have enough music therapists to realize the professional recommendations for the areas listed. It's too long. This is why it is urgent to have a greater political commitment to music therapy in health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4188	It is important to apply a wide range of tools and methods both in treatment and in therapeutic work to different patient groups, which are also covered by the Committee. I agree with the majority of the Committee that patients who wish to do so will have the opportunity to choose drug-free treatment options. Music therapy is one of the measures recommended in the National Professional Guideline for the Investigation, Treatment and Follow-up of Psychosellants from the Health Directorate in 2013. Later, music therapy is recommended as a form of treatment in national professional guidelines also in the field of drug treatment and palliation, and it is assessed in the guidelines on the investigation of dementia and the follow-up of people with dementia and their relatives. The Nordic University and National Centre of Competence for Culture, Health and Care are the main partners in developing a music-based environmental management training programme for health and care professionals. Training programmes are now being developed to adapt to dementia care and further training modules are being developed for the master’s level. This is an important contribution to making music therapy an educational pathway for more than today. I assume that the current national professional guideline is known in the service. Furthermore, I would like to point out that health care managers are responsible for organising activities so that recommendations made in national professional guidelines can be followed. The guidelines of the Health Directorate and the content of knowledge-based recommendations should be central to improving the quality of healthcare. The recommendations are not legally binding, but by relying on them health professionals can be sure that they comply with the legal requirements for professionally sound health care. Evidence should be provided when health professionals choose solutions that differ significantly from the recommendations of the national guideline. When assessing whether it is in accordance with good practice, the Health Inspectorate takes as its starting point the recommendations developed systematically and knowledge-based. The setting points to several examples of music therapy being used in the treatment of different groups of patients. These are good examples, in my opinion, of the proper functioning of the guidelines when healthcare professionals apply them. I also believe that these are examples of why it is appropriate to follow the recommendations and guidelines. My position is that politicians at national level must see it as positive that we do not have to make detailed political decisions to ensure that health professionals follow professional recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4210	As a musician, I have been around institutions, sung and played, and have had many wonderful experiences. I think it's sometimes been important, at least it's been experienced like that. But I'm not a music therapist. I'll never call myself that, because it's an academic profession. Then my question to the Health Minister is whether he can understand the post that was in the evening post, and the letter that came from the Grieg Academy reminding me of the difference in music-based environmental treatment – which is very important in itself – and the music therapy prophecy that they train people to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4218	I know very clearly the difference between this. So when I hear the representative singing – and it's very nice – I don't see it as music-based environmental therapy. It's culture and entertainment. Therefore, music-based environmental therapy is not the same as singing to patients. It is knowledge-based and carried out by health professionals who have an education. The same applies to music therapy, as performed by music therapists. These lines of division are clear. I still see that having good cultural entries where music is present is important, but I also think that music-based environmental therapy and music therapy are important in the service. It also appears, among other things: in the guidelines that I referred to in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4225	My follow-up question is: can the Minister of Health see that it would be important to implement some of the proposals that we have put together with the Central Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter? For example, in my part of the country, music therapists are not trained. Suffering if it is not the Department of the Health Council, I ask him to reply, however, if he can see that it is absolutely necessary for us to be trained more music therapists, and that this education can also be established elsewhere than today, for example. in that part of the country I'm from.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4230	As the representative is aware, educational capacity is not my responsibility, but I, together with the Ministry of Knowledge, have set up a number of schemes and put in place a lot of work to improve dialogue between health services and educational institutions in order to ensure that the educational capacity of educational institutions and the content of education are more consistent with the needs of the service, and it is clear that the service needs more music therapists in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4235	I have read the answer that the Council of State has given to the Committee when it comes to proposal No. 2, to increase the national educational capacity of music therapy education. I must admit that I am surprised that one is so reprehensible that this is something that the Minister of Health should care about. One indicates that this is a priority that the educational institutions themselves must give, or the Minister of Knowledge, and that there is a responsibility to pay for it without ensuring that it is implemented. My question is, does the Council of State think this is to regulate something in detail? Is there not cooperation between the Health Council and the Knowledge Councils? Will the Council of State take the initiative to assess the need for more places of study before music therapy — from government?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4242	I don't see this as a detail, but I think that if the representative talks about this with his colleague on the Education Committee, she will quickly discover that there is another way to run the educational institutions in Norway than we do, for example. the specialist health service. Training institutions have a significant independent role in Norway, defining both the scope and content of different training courses. What I've been working on is getting better cooperation at all levels, including with the Ministry of Knowledge, but not least between the service and educational institutions, to ensure that there is better consistency between the capacity and content of education, so that they better match the needs of services, and that is a work that's in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4249	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4256	It's late in the evening, but when I take the floor now, it's because this is my last case in Stortinget after twelve years. Fabulously, I ended up on music: back to basic. It has been twelve fantastic years, a journey in teams of good colleagues both inside and outside my own party, and it has been a great honour to be able to represent and trust women for people who have voted for me and my party in elections. But I have to come along with a little bit of daring, because I think in these four years it has developed a kind of tradition because some government councils have turned the questioning institute into a sort of verbal breakup. In the last ordinary quiz it became a football match, where the council found an imaginary judge flute, blew for filming and distributed yellow cards while criticizing the Workers' Party's program. I'm taking this up because I think it might be funny sometime, but it's part of undermining what's going to be important with the ask institute, at least one of the things that's important: that the opposition should be able to ask tough and challenging questions, and then the state councils should answer supplementary and informative to the Storting. I hope that tradition might change a little bit for the autumn. But the great, exciting, beautiful, pagan debates, where we have been very disagreeable, have been delicious! One of the finest things about democracy is that we can have this disagreement, and then the next day, as the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen said, we can stand together, shoulder to shoulder, as we did with the autism proposal today, and agree and raise important issues. I just want to say thank you to everyone, to the Stortinget, and to my beautiful people in Troms, who have shown me confidence three times in choice – and since it's about music and health, a little lyrics with another tune, that goes like this: «Soft wind, soft wind, you open your door, If you open your door, you ask him in, soft hand, soft hand, you let her iron you, let her throw you now while she is capable of doing so.’» Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4282	Thank you so much for the song! The next speaker is the representative Kjersti Toppe – as I expect it to speak. [[Applause from the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4289	I'm not going to sing, but thanks to Tove Karoline, also for all the years we've had together in the Health and Care Committee. I only have one small line, but it's perhaps boring now, after the fine conclusion of the representative Knutsen. It goes on educational capacity and the line to the Council of State. I just want to remind you that the two educational institutions – this is what the draft representative says – have recorded to the department both last year and this year the need to increase educational capacity, and with regard to the representation of our representative in the knowledge committee, we both support this proposal. So we know how it works, but we now have a willingness to raise this and the need to get more education places. - It was just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4296	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20. The regulatory time has now come to an end. The President proposes that we continue the meeting until today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The request for sick leave has been lodged with the representative, Bengt Morten Wenstøb, from 19 June onwards. 22 to 21 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods Tone Damsleth shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4322	Tone Damsleth is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4336	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4345	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, and others, promote proposals to replace the Health Business Act with a separate Health Administration Act, where the majority of a hospital board is to be composed of representatives from the county. The centre party will also change the financing of hospitals, with the aim of ensuring that all hospitals are mainly financed within the framework. In 2015, the government appointed a public body, the Women’s Country Committee, to investigate the organisation of state ownership in the specialist health service. The selection was asked to consider three alternatives to today’s organisation: an undertaking of its own, directly controlled by the Ministry; a new directorate to replace the current health business a national health enterprise that replaces the current four regional enterprises; 13 of the 16 members of the sample considered that there should still be a level of regional decision-making. One of the reasons given in the sample is that a regionally anchored level gives greater legitimacy. Regional anchoring will improve regional planning and dimensioning of the specialist health service. So the Women's Country Committee had no better options than today's model. I have to agree with the Workers' Party's remarks that a comprehensive reorganisation of businesses will require both financial and human resources, and that a new organisation will have to be more effective and effective in providing health services than is the case today. So it concluded that the sample doesn't. The model of the Center Party actually creates the impression that county councils and state politicians have a direct responsibility for hospital operations. But in reality, these rulers have to deal with the direction signals coming from the government and from the Storting. The model really creates unclear responsibilities. A key instrument for the implementation of health policy is the funding mechanisms, and the specialised health service is funded partly through a basic allocation and partly through different activity-based financial instruments. This so-called ISF scheme was introduced in 1997. It is therefore not new and, unlike the framework funding, stimulates the system of more cost-effective patient treatment. This was one of the reasons why the government increased the proportion of input-funded governance from 40 pst. to 50 pst. The Women's Country Committee looked at many different issues in addition to the management model. I am pleased that the government wants to see these in context, and it has announced that it will provide an overall presentation of the direction for the further follow-up in the state budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4372	Of course, the way we organize our hospitals is of importance to our common health care. The Labour Party believes that the report of the Women’s Country Committee provides a good description of today’s hospital model and points to a number of key areas for improvement. Health services are constantly changing, and there will also be a need to improve the way we organise operations, from time to time. The criticism of today's business model covers several areas. Distance between management and the patient-related business, lack of legitimacy of top management, excessive focus on market principles at the expense of patient treatment, and the fact that there is often too little trust across hospitals, are some of the key elements that often emerge from the criticism. The conclusion of the Women’s Country Committee was that none of the models they identified was clearly better than the business model, and the majority of the sample proposed that the current model be maintained, with certain adjustments. There is plenty of room to make the necessary improvements within today's health business model, and the Workers' Party is using it to improve the functioning of our hospitals. We believe that there is reason to dampen the market funding of hospitals, so that there is a better balance between the quality of patient care and economic requirements. It also needs to be reflected in the way the specialist health service is referred to, for example. by the fact that a hospital is a hospital and not a health business. The Labour Party therefore believes that it is appropriate to maintain governance at the different levels, and that governments must have both heavy professional competence and good social understanding. Good management and trust between the different stages of service is a prerequisite for a good service, and we believe that real local management should be a general rule. I would also like to say that the Labour Party is part of the committee's recommendation, and we therefore do not support any of the proposals that I expect will be promoted in the wider debate, by a slightly different minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4387	It's not always the Center Party and the Advance Party is in agreement, but we unite some of our good thoughts in dealing with this Document 8. We agree that it is right to put down regional health businesses. But our paths are separated when we come to the Central Party's wish that there are elected state politicians who are to govern our hospitals. To that, Norwegian hospitals are far too important. The Progress Party believes that the Women's Country Committee has not delivered the order it received. The sample was supposed to come back with a model to replace the RHFs, which was to be dropped. In 2002, the hospital reform came. Then the state acquired ownership of the hospitals – in itself a good Progress Party model. What we recognize after this is that the regional health businesses have become large, overhanging and pampering mastodons. That's what we have to get away from. Hospitals are primarily responsible for patient treatment, and all their energy and focus should also be focused on this. In the populace, health is called the South-East Health Largest, for the simple reason that 2.8 million Northmen belong to this company. That's about. half of the population of the country. The job of removing power from the RHFs has already been started by today's government. Indeed, national hospitals, procurement and ICT companies have been established. I think it's a good start, and it shouldn't be hard to put them down, since the job of moving tasks has already begun. The Norwegian Medical Association adopted support for the wish to shut down regional health businesses, as they had the question for treatment at their national government meeting on 31 May this year. The Medical Association believes that decisions need to be moved closer to patients. I could not agree more. Finally, I would like to remind the Central Party that the Workers' Party is to keep the regional RHFs. It might be worth remembering when we go into the next magnification period. I take up the proposal The Progress Party has together with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4406	The representative Morten Wold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4411	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for the proposal. The Christian People's Party largely agrees with the rapporteurs, and we are promoting in the vote some proposals that are in line with the draft representative. The Christian People's Party believes that there must be political management of the hospitals. It's not too big a task to have political governance of, and we're going to wind up the regional health companies. When the Christian People's Party advocates the liquidation of the regional health companies, it's about us wanting more political management of hospitals. The Christian People's Party wants a transfer of power from bureaucrats to the elected people. The Christian People's Party model implies the continuation of state ownership of hospitals and the overall governance of local health companies by the State Council on the basis of leadership given by the Stortinget. The size shall be the overall long-term governance of a rolling national health and hospital plan, following the pattern of the national transport plan, which we are well aware of after a seven-eight-hour debate in Stortinget today. Significant changes in hospital structure and functions shall be determined by the Stortinget through this plan. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that it is the elected representatives of the Stortinget and the governments of the local health companies to decide. By the fact that the elected representatives of the municipalities and regions are in the local health company boards, and by having a long-term hospital plan to provide comprehensive and predictable governance from the Stortinget, we will ensure that it is the people – through the politicians they choose on all three levels – who decide what Hospital-Norway will look like in the future. This is the background for the voting of the Christian People's Party today. We are voting in favour of the proposals we are promoting in the vote, No. 1 to 7. We are very much in agreement with proposals 8, 9 and 10, but we want an overall approach to the whole funding system and therefore do not vote for the conclusions in this context. But no one should doubt that the Christian People's Party is critical of the large proportion of ISF funding that takes place in Norwegian hospitals. I therefore address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4426	The representative of Olug Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4431	So that's it, the government promise that one would wind up the regional health professionals – a 3-minute debate at the end of the four years. The centre party believes that the specialist hospital that is carried out in Norwegian hospitals is essential for people's safety, and that Norwegian hospitals are currently over-administered and under-leaded. For this reason, we have put forward this proposal to wind up the health business model, and we are pleased that we came up with a proposal that all parties who are opposed to this way of managing hospitals could gather around. The Women's Country Committee was supposed to lead to a broad political debate on this, but that follow-up was cancelled by the Council of State itself because the Right Party had changed its mind. 15 years of business modeling has been 15 years of continuous political and professional debate on this way of organising and managing our hospitals. We believe that the model is undemocratic and that he weakens the possibility of elected government and political control. That's the same thing as the Norwegian Toy Association. We suggest that the model be discontinued, and that we have a democratization and leadership reform for Norwegian hospitals where we take hospitals back to public administration and elected government. We believe that all the recommendations of the Women's Committee mean democratic deficits in the management of hospitals in the future too, but we believe that the one proposal, to sort out a system of fewer health care providers directly under the control of the Department, should be distributed in full scope. It is not. We propose a model where the state still has hospitals, but where we delegate to the local hospital board, corresponding to the local health services of the day, to operate hospitals where there is a majority in the board that is elected by and among the county, or by the members of the new regions, where hospitals are more well-funded, and where there is also urban rent at all hospitals. I understand that, for example: The Labour Party is not in favour of our proposals here, but it is incomprehensible that one cannot agree that an ISF funding should not be passed on to the department/clinical/hospital level, and it is incomprehensible that one cannot end up having the AD meeting open, and that one should make strategic decisions about ICT coming under political treatment and decisions. With this I take up the Center Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4446	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4451	The left is most concerned with building trust in the hospital sector and healthcare, between the patient and the public, between the patient and the employees or between employees and the public. The patient’s health service in Norway today is very good when the blue light comes on, but before and after, it is often difficult to reach and find. At the same time, public health work is deprioritised for repair, as well as too much attention being given to somatic materials compared to drugs and psychiatry. A two-part healthcare system must have less impact on sharing. The left is part of its programme for the period 2017–2021 for an experiment with a collection of all healthcare at one level and a greater effort in public health work. It should be encouraged that municipalities that want to do so may choose to cooperate with hospital companies on tasks of specialised care, immediate assistance and medical care — as an alternative to entering into more and more inter-municipal cooperation. The left is open to bringing together the four regional health enterprises of one national enterprise, with a focus on managing national treatment services and operating national development and standardisation of patient safety, quality and ICT infrastructure. This must be accompanied by a new organisation of current 20 hospital establishments. The left is concerned that more and more decisions in the Norwegian hospital sector are being brought together in an increasing number of forums, consisting of only the four directors of the four regional health establishments. An increasing number of large decisions on acquisitions are attempted to keep away from the public and users, such as the prices of expensive medicines and the outsourcing of large ICT contracts to foreign companies. Both the lack of transparency and uncertainty about digital patient information reduces trust. The left wants as many resources as possible for patients and health professionals. Today, there is a national conglomerate of actors with somewhat unclear mandates and too small resources to drive national standardisation and development of national infrastructure. We are calling for an investigation and debate on real alternatives to today's four regional health businesses. The few ideal actors in Norway seem to operate hospitals more efficiently and with a lower level of conflict than the public. We need to learn from this. There has been a little talk about new regions and elected actors at that level. In Spain, in the Valencia region, with 240 000 inhabitants, a private operator has subsequently been responsible for both primary and specialist health services. Ribera Salud has one ICT system, they've been especially committed to the chroniclers, they're monitoring the doctors. This is an example of the fact that it is fully possible to operate one healthcare service and not keep to the double bookkeeping we have in Norway. It creates a lot of bureaucracy, and it draws a lot of resources away from patient-care.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4467	In the last post, I was unsure whether the Left had the right to privatise the entire hospital business – that that was the point. ‘As we have a National Transport Plan for Transport, we should have a national health plan for hospitals. Then we will listen to local recordings, professional advice and let the Stortinget make the decisions.’ It has gradually become a rather famous statement that is very well said. It was our Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, who said these famous words the days before the 2013 elections. It can't be said. That's what Right went for. Ein would get a democratic management of hospitals. Behind it was a rather harsh criticism of today's business model, which means that political responsibility is very unclear. We know how it's been done. Nothing has been delivered. Ein has fallen into a pure defense of today's business model. SV wants a popular management of hospitals. We want to liquidate the business model, and we want to ensure that the management of hospitals is made up of people elected in full openness. Every four years, we've outlined, we're going to deal with a national hospital plan at Stortinget, where hospital structures, functions and leaders are laid. We also see strong regions, which include: hospitals, but also other functions, such as transport and resource management, are part of the tasks of the region. This is how the regions actually get content, while the government added to its proposal, were regions with no content and to continue the hospital operations in such a way as to do today. So summed up: SV is in favour of proposal No. 2-10. First of all, it is proposal No. 7 which is closest to our model. I would like to stress that proposal No. 1 vote in favour of subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4483	The government has made a number of significant changes to the governance model of the specialist health service. Firstly, the national health and hospital plan is established as a management tool. The first national health and health plan has been adopted in the United Kingdom and is now operational. The work on developing the basis of the second national health and health plan is in progress, in line with the leadership of the Stortinget, where development plans are based on the same model in the four regions, and where local communities, too, are involved in the work. It will provide a good basis for creating the next national health and health plan. Governments have become more professional, and one has also reduced the number of governance requirements for health regions. At the same time, several national companies are established to ensure stronger national coordination in key areas such as procurement, ICT and construction. It is also the case that a greater part of the political decisions have been moved up and taken as a political responsibility, for example. hospital closures and the location of new hospitals. The question of alternative organisation and closure of regional health enterprises is addressed in a wide-ranging sample, the Women’s Country Committee. Their proposals have been consulted, and several models have been explored. The government has announced that the direction for further follow-up to the Women's Country Committee will be given in the State budget for the autumn, but one can already note that the consultation round provided very little support for the majority of the Women's Country Committee's proposals. I also do not believe that any parties have supported that proposal. There is also very little support for some of the alternative proposals put forward by the Women’s Country Committee. I also note that in this debate – although many parties are still calling for the closure of health regions – I feel that the various parties have quite different descriptions of the alternative. I would like to give a very strong warning about the proposal of the Central Party, where one believes that a health minister should be responsible for hospitals, and that one should at the same time have a regime composed of politicians from the region and could only elect regional politicians as composite rulers. It will be a model that pulverizes political responsibility and makes this governance model less democratic, not more democratic. One risks that one will eventually run out of government representatives to nominate if the governments do not lead the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4499	It would have been tempting to use the little minute now to look back, for there is no doubt that if you look in the rearview mirror, the Right and especially the Minister of Health have had a mildly said healthy and different view of the governance model that now seems to survive again. But I'm not going to do that, because I actually think – and I've said it before – that there is respect for both parties and people who dare to admit that what you stood for before, you don't mean anymore, and you have a reason for that. On the other hand, what I think it would have been exciting to hear the Minister of Health say something about is when he – and perhaps some other central people in the Right – began to think that this might not have been as generous as one had imagined it was, and what concrete contribution did it make to that recognition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4506	I'm not going to start writing my memoirs from the Great Britain pulpit, so that's what I'm going to get back to. But I want to say that when the government decided to set up the Women's Country Committee, it was precisely because alternative models were not sufficiently established. I already said at the time that I was very concerned that the work of the Women's Country Committee would be completed in December 2016, so that it could also provide a basis for a good discussion in the parties related to which alternative models the different parties could then enter into their election programmes for the next major period. I believe that the work of the Women's Country Committee and the discussion around it have been crucial for what the Justice National Meeting chose to do when it was about the programme for the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4513	I thank you for your answer. I would say – believe it or not – that even for the Workers' Party, this model has been stoned, and I would say that several of the changes that today's government has also made to further develop the model have been good and blend into a tradition that the model of hospital management that applies today is very different from the model that was adopted here in Stortinget more than 15 years ago. What I think, on the other hand, I can allow myself, is a little, well-meaning advice back. When you characterize the models and model choices of other parties, how other parties now see themselves proposing quite dramatic changes in the governance structure, it's not so much more dramatic and different from what the government's own party joined, almost four years ago, and when you combine it with rhetoric like 'faceless bureaucrats' and 'glavalag', and now it's going to be kept, yes, even buried in the Right Program, my advice is to take it a little bit more piano in the character of other parties' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4522	I don't feel that I've given some particularly strong characteristics of other parties' programs, but that I've just been very clear that a model where one puts the restriction on government representation by people who are elected, and where they are clearly supposed to represent a different popular level than those who are actually responsible for the specialist health service, namely, corruption and government, will be a mix of roles that I think are very demanding. And I think it is right to inform you that there is a model that we believe will help to powder responsibility, and not clarify political responsibility. Political responsibility is an essential part of the discussion about the governance model.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4527	I'm going to get away from those coserillas from two parties that are actually quite a few, to what this is actually about. There is a political inconsistency about how we should manage hospitals and how one can get the best possible democratic control. And one takes over the criticism that is, both from professionals and from people, that hospitals are run in a way that doesn't give trust. I can accept that the Right and the Council of State have changed their vision. I would like to ask if there is a possibility that the Council of State will take initiatives to change the model. And then I would like to ask in particular about the outreach and ‘unpractice’ that the ISF system and funding are being passed on from regional health care agencies down to health care agencies and down to every hospital department and clinic: Will the Council take the initiative to change that scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4534	If the representative experiences the exchange of lines between me and the representative Mikalsen as food, she has a different view of food than what I have. [[muttering in the hall]] The Women's Country Committee has investigated a lot of things in addition to just the governance model. As I said in my post, the government will come back to the follow-up of the Women's Country Committee in the state budget for 2018. There is also work to look at costs per patient, which is a model already in place, and also to look at other models to better understand the costs of patient treatment and, in particular, patient treatment. So this is a question that we have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4541	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4548	I take the word especially because the representative Knag Fylkesnes from SV has committed himself to an unusual way of interpreting posts in the worst sense. Neither I nor Left have called for the privatisation of the Norwegian hospital sector. If the representative of Knag Fylkesnes listened to me, I said in my speech that winding up the four regional health companies for one benefit is perhaps the primary model of the Left today. What we're most concerned about is the 20 hospital companies that run hospitals in practice. They are very different — everything from the Inland Hospital, which was created to cover two counties, with eight hospitals in them, to Health Fonna, which has significantly fewer employees and significantly fewer and smaller hospitals. So why do we have to stay in the long run with so many variations? When you start with that starting point, you'd think you had an intention to evaluate-- maybe assemble and structure this more equally. So it hasn't happened very much. So we have development opportunities, to call it that, within public ownership. When I pointed at Ribera Salud, it's because they've had the courage to take a jump and jump over something. There's something to learn from it. It is probably also why the Workers' Party is committed to similar trials as the Left wants to do, bringing primary health care and specialist healthcare into one healthcare service. It was perhaps the most important thing I said in my post: we need to get a less two-part healthcare in Norway. How we're going to get there, was the third thing I said in my post: we have to do some bigger try. I actually want that of all the 48 hospitals in Norway, maybe we should take the chance of having one privately operated hospital, to get something to measure all the public against. We have a challenge if we run 48 hospitals in savings flares in Norway, and measure them equally – that everyone is trying to do the same, with such different starting points, or that we are measuring more against the ideal actors. As I also said in my post, they seem to operate with less "giva", but also less sparkles between employees and management, and with less management and greater transparency. So we have something to learn. Ribera Salud has taken digitisation seriously. There are 245,000 inhabitants in that region – just slightly larger than Uppland County, which has only two hospitals. Ribera Salud operates four hospitals in its region, with 100 primary health centres. However, they have taken digitisation seriously and have one ICT system, while in Norway we have about. 10 state actors located on the outskirts of the regional health establishments and the 20 hospital establishments. So we have something to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4575	The President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4584	This is an extension of the matter we have just discussed, relating to the organisation and structuring of hospitals in particular, and where there is a challenge in the trust relationship between hospital staff. Some people may call it a ‘new public management’ survival, target management and counting edges, and that this is used to a significant extent in the 20 hospital companies operating hospitals and that employees experience being measured at the top much. The second ratio is the flow of educational positions in these systems. In recent times, the focus has been on Oslo University Hospital, which is a major player in educational positions. There have been timely questions about how many educational positions are in circulation at Oslo University Hospital. When we see that through winter and spring it has taken many questions and months to get the real number in place, it testifies that the HR department is either struggling to have a system of counting, or will not bring to squares how many it really is, and then keeps information away from the public and the trade unions. There is some of the trust that we discussed in the previous case, which we need to develop and do better. At least the conditions for hospital staff must be predictable — what they go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4591	The offer that patients meet in our hospitals is the sum of skills, professional strength, motivation and job satisfaction that employees possess. All employees play a role in our common healthcare system, and together they contribute to the benefit of patients. Employees must feel valued and seen, and they must be part of the same team. Good conditions and firm and full positions, predictability in working life and room for warning when things are not as they should be, are all parts that have to be in place. It is important that hospital leaders offer trust and trust, both upwards and downwards in the system. Many employees in Norwegian hospitals report a hard-pressed working day. Time pressure, efficiency requirements, increased reporting requirements, less time for each patient and less predictable working conditions are mentioned. Confidence and conflict also characterise some hospitals and departments, while a number of hospitals in Norway are well managed through clear management, good employeeship and job satisfaction. However, it is worth noting that the health professionals and trade unions are alerting. Several issues show the need for a clear and good employer practice in Norwegian hospitals. There is a need to form a common and unified picture of reality, and it is up to the Minister of Health, as the country's chief in charge of the country's hospital, to initiate such processes. The establishment of trust between management and hospital staff is essential for the working environment, motivation and cooperation, and ultimately it is essential for good patient care. We have a solid Norwegian tradition where it is the law and duty of the social partners to negotiate pay and tariff issues. Tripartite cooperation is the hub of the Norwegian social model. That is why the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre are united on a proposal which was promoted in the Committee's position, calling on the Government to: ‘through tripartite cooperation, ensure cooperation and trust between hospital sector partners’. I'll deal with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4607	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4612	Let there be no doubt: staff and their competences are the main resource of health care — and ours. They rejoice, support, treat and follow up both young and old. They keep the wheels running today, evening and night, holidays and holidays 365 days a year. Without them Norway stops. That's why it's especially important that we facilitate them to continue, and that new ones choose to start. Thank the proposers for putting this important theme on the agenda. We know that the health service of the future poses challenges, and that we need to equip ourselves for it. According to the SSB, in 2030 we will experience a doubling of the number of older people, giving both benefits and challenges. Healthily, more people will stay healthy and work longer, while, on the challenge side, we will have many more older people with complicated and multiple diseases. The main focus of health and care follow-up is taking place and will continue to take place in municipalities, almost users, but we will also see an increase in the need for hospital treatment – not only for diseases due to old age but also new and complex diseases that require great expertise. Last week we dealt with the municipal reform. The Progress Party is not in doubt that we need larger and stronger municipalities that can get more tasks and more responsibility, also to give hospitals room for all the tasks they will do. Today we're talking about hospital staff. The debate might as well be about employees in the community health service. It is important that all employees experience joy in a tough everyday life, that employees experience good working conditions, and that employees experience hearing — be listened to — and that action is taken when necessary. So what actually gives joy and good working conditions? We believe that joy arises from the experience of mastering working life, through good contact with patients and colleagues, through the provision of knowledge, not least through security, respect and trust – and being seen. As a result, from the first day onwards, this government has prioritised several measures to recruit and maintain its employees: We've strengthened our skills. We have worked for full-time culture and flexible, alternative working time arrangements. We've focused on leadership education. We have offered nurses master training in advanced clinical care. We have strengthened the local economy, especially the prevention part, and tasks related to the interaction reform. We have strengthened the right to alert and adopted a ban on retaliation. The proposers believe that the State, as owner and senior executive, must ensure well-being and good working conditions, and want the Stortinge to have a proper debate on the values and general principles to characterise the country’s hospitals and health services. We do that every day when we deal with health-related issues in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4652	Our hospitals have employees who do a huge job every day. These are health workers who save lives and improve people's quality of life with their daily work. There are people who take social responsibility and who go as far as possible to contribute as much as possible. Health professionals work around the clock for weeks and years — and often at times when others are free — to care for the needs of society for health care. However, several employees report a working day that is under pressure. Many people experience a day-to-day feeling of time pressure, work pressure and expectation of efficiency improvement, and that there is no time to do a real job. There is too little rest, and there is work that is perceived as unforeseeable — and with little participation. Many experience the challenge of combining work with leisure and family life. The pressure is often justified by economic constraints. There's talk of a lack of trust and energy leakage. There are many conflicts that are taking attention away from patient treatment and from quality in the development of the health sector. We see that there are fundamentally different realities of today's situation, and very different views on how central parts of the organisation of the hospital's work are going to take place. Trust and good cooperation are crucial. I believe it is the responsibility of politicians to ensure good working conditions – as owners of Norwegian hospitals. The Christian People's Party wants a strong public health service. We want healthcare to be for everyone, and as in all other parts of Norwegian working life, there must be safe, good and predictable working conditions. The challenges of the future in specialist healthcare can only be addressed through cooperation. We need to figure out what it takes to build new trust and a common understanding of the situation. Tribulation requires good working conditions, cooperation, trust, predictability and ability to influence one's own working life, participation. Stories about pregnant women who do not get organized jobs, about the difficult withdrawal of parental leave, about doctors who have to go for years to get a permanent position, about changes in contracts during the contract period, about the challenges of the contract work – all these are descriptions of working conditions that I find hard to see that we can defend. Another important perspective is the right to combine work with leisure and family life. It is essential that we ensure an employer policy that does not scare away current and future employees, if we are still to have good recruitment to our hospitals. It's about resource use: conflict creates energy leakage. The Christian People's Party takes seriously the unrest that is spread by many about working conditions in hospitals. I bring this up with the Christian People's Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4675	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4680	Just some comments on the matter. The right-hand side shares the views of the proposers – that employees should have good and safe working conditions. There shall be a good warning culture and, in particular, a culture for placing patient safety high on the agenda. We know that good working conditions and a good environment in the departments infect patients. Hospitals with a high level of conflict — departments with what we can call an acid work environment — also do not benefit patients. It is clearly a management responsibility to provide good management down to the department level. That is where the interaction takes place, between patients and the individual nurse or doctor — or the laboratory — for that matter. We agree that tripartite cooperation should ensure cooperation between hospital partners. The Council of State has also written in a letter dated 15 May that ensuring cooperation and trust between the parties is ‘well cared for’ in our hospitals. Of course, employees are involved in governance and in the preparation of plans and strategies. As far as hospital management is concerned, the Stortinget has discussed the National Health and Hospital Plan and, in the context of this, the importance of transparency, quality and trust as well as of supporting principles in hospitals is emphasised. The Governing Boards are responsible for following up the regulations of the State — the Minister — at the Enterprise Meeting. As you can see, there is a red thread from the minister down to the individual hospital focusing on management. And I really think that this room has done. We've been busy with management. In connection with the National Health and Hospital Plan, we also discussed the importance of closeness to its leader and knowing who the superior is. As a result, we just wanted it to be essentially the local manager of the individual hospital. The working environment is important. We're talking about management, but we also know that you have to accept hospital management. There is not always agreement as to the objectives of management and what employees have. Then we have the order of trust, which is to be a mediation order. It works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4697	This proposal for a representative is very important and very interesting, and it would have sparked a different and more in-depth debate than it is today. Last fall we witnessed the longest hospital strike in history, and no doubt the tripartite cooperation in Norwegian hospitals is threatened. The strike showed us that the cooperation and trust between the addition and the rental in Norwegian hospitals is not well taken care of. The strike was an important signal that there is a crisis of trust between the rental and the addition of them to Norwegian hospitals. I have noted the findings of the Health Directorate of the Patient Safety Programme, where 44 pst. by units of Norwegian hospitals on a national basis, there is a high risk of undesirable events due to an immature safety and/or team work climate. It is clear that this is a liability for rental, but it is serious when we only say that this is the case after a time, without any change. It has been pointed out for a long time that we have a problem with the culture of expression in the Norwegian healthcare system, that adding to hospitals fears negative reactions and represals by expressing themselves, and that many people do not. In the notes I have also referred to the 2016 Medaktionsbarometer from the University of Oslo and Akershus, there 45 pst. by those who are asked, saying that Norwegian working life is moving in an authoritarian direction, and those who get the furthest down in this inquiry about who has the least involvement in their workplace are the health services and, in particular, the state. Only foreign employers have a more authoritarian lease than the state and health and care services. So it's no wonder there's going to be conflicts and strikes. However, when we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 2 from the Christian People's Party, it's because we don't believe a hospital owner's message will have a function, because we have a health care model that's part of the problem. There are false hopes of what a proprietary message will give. But we are voting in favour of the second proposal. When this is the case with urban rent, I react to the fact that the representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen told so beautifully about the urban rental that came in the national health and hospital plan. In More and Romesdal, there is no quiet lease introduced in the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4719	This is a very big and important discussion, which we're going to take about at the entrance to midnight – but he's just as important anyway. I'd like to address our proposal. There is a very negative development in Norwegian hospitals that only seems to go in an increasingly negative direction. I myself have gradually gained quite good experience through my own hospital, the University Hospital Nord-Norway in Tromsø, and have regular contact with them. I get right stories and try to check them, for example. by elevating me with the rental to this vote, and getting different types of tell-tales. But what's left is a pretty strong diet. There are conditions that I did not believe were possible in Norwegian work. There are reports of power and authoritarian abuse, where the reportants lose guards and become suspended, where active trustees lose opportunities for the future, where serious aberrations are not reported in fear of the consequences for the addition, at last pointed out by the Troms County Board, and a HR department that acts as the leader's extended arm in internal conflicts. All of these are statements that I've really tried to verify and to the best of my ability to verify. Just to illustrate by an example: Just before Christmas, the newspaper iTromsø revealed that the University Hospital North Norway had been playing sensitive personal information on Snapchat. The idea was that one from the info department would send a mobile camera around among them, so one would take snaps, and then it would be sent out on Snapchat and so be a cool and modern representation of the hospital. Then it had to be inevitable that personal information came out. What was the response from the UN Guide was to start an investigation, by a security officer of his own, by who had notified this. This is quite illustrative of how the state is at UN. It simply does not tolerate the light of the day. So to our suggestion. At St. Olav's Hospital, you suggest that you improve the effectiveness of shift replacements between nurses by cutting the overlap time by a quarter. We think it's a pretty serious attack on continuity, which we know is extremely important, especially when the patient coating is as high as it is. For this reason, we suggest that Stortinget clearly states that this cannot be done for patient safety reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4730	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4735	In the management of the hospitals' ownership, I have explicitly expressed the emphasis on transparency, quality, safety and respect in the workplace and a good reporting culture that contributes to development and learning. The Enterprise Meeting called for hospitals to continue their efforts to improve patient safety and to see this in the context of health, environmental and safety work. There is also a requirement to increase the proportion of permanent jobs, to develop a full-time culture and to reduce temporary employment where possible. Management's responsibilities are clearer in a separate regulation on management and quality improvement in the health and care service that came into force on 1 January of this year. The regulation is clear from the top management’s responsibility for planning, implementing, evaluating and correcting activities. The model for health is based on a clear division of roles and responsibilities for the management of the specialist health service. The State has the overall responsibility and shall fulfil its obligations and define overall health policy objectives as the owner of the health regions. The size has laid the political framework for the development of specialist health services in the treatment of national health and hospital plans. Representatives propose that the government ensure cooperation and trust between the hospital sector partners through tripartite cooperation. I believe this is well taken care of by the involvement of employers' organisations, associations and associations in many areas and at many levels. It is also natural that they are involved in the work in progress to ensure cooperation, trust, transparency and patient safety in hospitals. With regard to the proposal for a hospital message, I recall that the Stortinget has had and will have many opportunities to provide overall political governance signals for the development of the specialist health service, not least through the treatment of the national health and hospital plan and the annual government budgets. The Government will provide directions for the follow-up of the Women's Country Committee in the State budget for the autumn. I think everyone agrees that it is important to continue to ensure good working conditions for hospital staff. It is important to balance the consideration between clear expectations, values and guiding principles. At the same time, the management of hospitals and businesses must have room for action and trust in the responsibility of the employer and exercise good management. The role of employers has been added to hospitals and health regions, and it is important that they also have the opportunity to develop that role. I have started a significant work in this area in the health regions, not least related to seeing health, environment and safety in the context of patient safety work. I have recently had a follow-up meeting on this with all the directors and directors in the health regions in order to carry out similar studies on the working environment and management in order to obtain better data in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4759	The cause that is no longer entirely up to date, but the one that is most up to today is the conflict between the Spectators and the Academics last fall, which, as many have been involved, led to a long medical strike – the longest strike in the history of hospitals, or at least in very many years. It is not unusual for a bullet to go hot, and that it is intense and sometimes also heard between different parties when you are in a negotiating situation and are on strike. What is unfortunate now is that for a long time there has developed a persistently poor mood in some hospitals and between the different parties representing the different actors. The Minister of Health is not a direct party to this case, but is the top person responsible for the management of Norwegian hospitals and owns them. The question is: What concrete initiatives will the Minister of Health take, in addition to what he pointed out, to regain confidence?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4768	I think it is very clear that when a dispute about collective bargaining has to be settled by the Rikswohnsnämnend, it is not a winner or loser, then it is just losers. I see that everyone has taken responsibility and cooperated to care for the patient after the strike is over, and that everyone is concerned about what is best for the patient. I am happy and grateful for that. I also hope that the parties can meet to talk about how the cooperation can be rebuilt, and how to get a job well with the working environment at the hospitals, so that it can be taken care of. As I said in my post, there is also a systematic work in the health region to ensure better cooperation and inclusion of health, environmental and safety work and patient safety work, and to ensure good transparency and management.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4777	I thank you for your answer. To clarify my first question, it's my clear belief that what has evolved over a long time is what I call parallel realities among some of the actors. My years in politics and in other areas have shown me that one thing is to disagree on a matter, but if you can't even agree on what is the basis of the disagreement, and on what is the real situation, it's often very difficult to get closer to each other and find a solution. I believe, however, that there are many good things in the Council of State, but despite the fact that there are many who are responsible for things being as they are, despite the fact that national wage decisions, legal cases and strikes have been carried out, we are where we are. I agree that the parties have managed to take responsibility in the hospitals, but this is an unfortunate situation. Will the Minister of Health himself take concrete initiatives for discussions around a table, so that the parties could move forward a step further?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4786	I think the representative is aware that this is initially the responsibility of the parties, and if I take the initiative in this area, I don't think I'm going to deal with it in advance from the Parliament's pulpit. Then I don't think the purpose of that kind of initiative will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4791	There are different reality descriptions of what the condition in Norwegian hospitals is like. Employees report that they do not receive permanent jobs, they experience punishment, they feel that they are not able to have a career if they say so, pregnant women say that they are not allowed to facilitate working conditions. We also know that eight out of ten who become doctors today are women, and a large proportion of the nurses are also women. Specter has a description of what has happened in Norwegian hospitals, and the management of the hospitals has their description. What history, reality description, does the Council of State think is the correct description of reality? Do employees have any rights in what they say?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4796	It is clear that different conditions and different examples are brought forward in this discussion, and there is no reason to doubt that some of the examples are correct. But creating a common understanding of the actual situation is important. That is why, as I have been involved in, I have also given the health region a mandate to carry out coordinated studies on patient safety culture, the working environment and the HMS. That work was presented to me today, and is ready to be carried out in 2018. Then we'll get a better knowledge base to see what's the situation, and get comparable studies between hospitals. The background is that the patient safety study showed that 44 pst. by the hospital departments, there is a culture at risk to patient safety. I believe that this is completely unacceptable for an enterprise that has as much risk as it has, and that includes as many people as hospitals do.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4803	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4821	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4830	The Committee has examined SV’s proposal to ensure safe maternity care, a theme that the Committee has been involved in and discussed regularly during this ageing period. We agree on a cross-political basis that we have good results in Norway in this area. So when SV proposes immediate measures to ensure good maternity care, it is important that we do not leave the impression that maternity care in Norway is in crisis. The most important policy leaders for maternity care were placed in St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A Happy Event. The size was the time that now concerned that the food supply in Norwegian hospitals should not be weakened for financial reasons. In the government, the Right Party and the Advance Party have actively worked for safe maternity care, including safe maternity and maternity care. In the budgets, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have provided a good framework for both the hospital economy and what is happening outside the municipalities. We have facilitated a high growth in patient treatment in hospitals in our four years. Some political debaters in the media presented the budgetary agreement last autumn as a cut in the economy of hospitals. It's a misrepresentation. Through the 2017 budget, the government and the cooperation parties are also adding to the activity growth in hospitals in 2017. Through the media we are known that Akershus University Hospital shuts down several feeding rooms. As mentioned above, economic reasons should not be used as arguments for reducing the supply of food. In the Right and Advance Party, we therefore expect Akershu University Hospitals to do their reorganizations without weakening the offer to the natives or making it impossible for employees to meet the quality requirements of maternity care. The midwives are central to a safe postnatal delivery period. Home visits shall address challenges of breast feeding and other activities involving a newly-baked family. The government has increased the appropriations for health station and school health services by nearly 1 billion. kr since 2013. Now we see results. Only from 2015 to 2016 the KOSTRA figures show a growth of 12 pst. in the number of midwifery works in the municipalities. In our four years, the government has really delivered results. In the last four red-green years, only 20 more nurseries were employed in the municipalities. In our four years, the number is 83. Now we also have a statutory midwife as a mandatory health professionals group in the municipalities. With the community reform, which ensures strong, stable professional environments, pregnancy and maternity follow-up will have even better conditions in the years to come. This is important in the light of research showing that midwifery follow-up of pregnant women produces very good and positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4845	We have a steady history of safe and secure maternity, maternity and maternity care in Norway. As the rapporteur said, the main political leaders in this area were placed in St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A happy event, which was handled by the Stortinget in 2009. At that time, the main conclusion was that the offer to pregnant, birthing and maternity women should be strengthened considerably, and the Minister of Health and Health asked regional businesses not to make economically motivated changes leading to a lower supply of food. Furthermore, the current government has also followed up, and in 2014 new national guidelines were also introduced. The Labour Party believes that it is important that Norwegian food departments follow up on the reinforced requirements and that this also includes the requirement to follow up women in the active phase of their birth. The representative’s proposal addresses issues that are well known in healthcare and at Stortinget. It is a major problem that the food clinics in parts of the year are overcrowded: every summer the media report women who have been rejected in the door. The hospital location has been shortened, but the offer in the municipality has not been built accordingly. It's also known that only 11 pst. by Norway’s midwives live in a municipality offering home visits to midwives in accordance with the guidelines of the Health Directorate. Many municipalities explain the lack of follow-up that the number of midwives has not increased since the guidelines came in 2014 and that carrying out maternity visits will go beyond maternity care. The share of breast-feeding has also fallen, and this tells us that the world's best birth and maternity care is not a chance that stands by itself, it needs to be defended every day in the healthcare system locally and in our hospitals, in municipalities, in government and from the Stortinget. I would like to take up with that the text of the motion contained in the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4856	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4861	I would first like to thank the proposers for this proposal. Birth care will never go out of fashion, and we have to keep focus on it all the time. Although much is good in maternity care in Norway, we all know that there is a lot that needs improvement and that development is not always in the right direction. We know that that's not all that is in practice the same thing as what's on the paper, and we have to make improvements. Because of this, the Christian People's Party is promoting one proposal together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party today and the other proposals together with the Center Party. We know that it is not the case that midwives have their own midwife present at all times when they are born in Norway today. Transport births occur as a result of distances, and so is the case in the big cities, which include: is explained that when clinics have become full or other clinics are closed, birth control waits too long at home. We know that far from everyone gets the follow-up of the midwife after birth that they are actually entitled to, which is also important especially for mother and children when we know that the discharge happens faster and faster. We know that a lot of people don't start breast-feeding until they leave the maternity ward. Many are worn out and vulnerable mothers who have to return to the hospital and take samples either of themselves or of the child afterwards, and they almost cannot do it, because they are worn out and have been discharged quickly, and would have liked to have a midwife to talk to. This is because printing practices have changed so dramatically. We also hear the concerns of the midwives and the employees in the maternity wards who tell about the pressure for efficiency, about too few employees and little time for the individual. We who have been through a birth know what that means. Not having a midwife all the way around, not knowing about security, being insecure first time -- it's a period of life that I think will be more dramatic than necessary, and one could do much better if you had a midwife with you on the most dramatic. The Christian People's Party believes that the midwife service will play a central role in the future, both in the community health service and in the maternity wards. I bring this up with me the proposals of the Christian People's Party with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4870	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4875	Thanks to the proposers who put forward this proposal, it came in quite the right time. We have a debate each spring with concern that the summer supply of food is too poor, especially in the large food clinics, and when it comes to holiday settlements, but not just because of it: also because the businessmen are happy to lay down some of the food establishments to save money. Then it's that births can't be planned, they come when they come, and that's why the midwives and the women waiting are concerned about the supply. Yes, we have a good maternity care in Norway, but it is also such that she is threatened by a hard productivity requirement in Norwegian hospitals. We have national professional guidelines, which came in 2010, which have not been followed up. If it had been a quality requirement for a small food department, by comparison, it would have been closed in the day. However, the large food clinics have been allowed to pass on such a practice without the health authorities having responded. It's a great injustice to all the birthing women who give birth in a maternity clinic, and it's them all, most of them. Time has gone down, we've got maternity guidelines on home visits, and the municipalities haven't got the money to take care of either. There is a debate in the Transport Birth Option – whether they have fallen or have increased. If I evaluate the numbers, births outside hospitals have extra. Transport births may not have increased, but the point is that they are asked to be home any longer, so that one may have several unplanned home births. There can be no such thing, there is an excessive practice for pregnant women in the large feeding clinics, because one has a great deal of pressure, with a high coating percentage and demands that one should have the birthing women at least possible inside. Funding for the provision of food has already been mentioned by the Senterpartiet. We believe that the provision of food should be financed as a framework. We're going to support all of the suggestions we're making in the setting, and we think it's very important proposals that SV brings here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4886	I would like to thank the Committee for taking our proposal for a representative seriously – in a critically violently asked question at Stortinget – and that is an important matter we are dealing with. The development of maternity care is worrying. In the media, we are constantly getting right stories about women who are sent back from the maternity ward, about poor follow-up and about midwives who are considering quitting and even warning women against giving birth in the ward. We're probably all a few in that women who give birth have the right to good care, time to get around, start breast-feeding and life as a mother, and that it's important to all of us. The mother-child relationship is a cornerstone of society, in many ways, and then the developments we are now seeing are quite alarming. The Institute of Public Health has demonstrated that a significant number of unplanned births occurred outside of a food institution in 2016. We know that centralisation reinforces these developments, that more is happening during transport, more is happening unplanned, outside institutions. This increases the risk and creates insecurity. And in the institutions, more people are warning about challenges in providing one-to-one care for midwives to women at an active stage because of capacity and resource problems, i.e. institutions are increasingly having problems creating this one-to-one relationship between midwife and woman in critical phase of birth. Collectively, both the centralisation and the institutional situation should worry us all. In addition, there are too few midwives, the recruitment of the midwives is critically poor, and there is also an ageing of active midwives to enable these developments to hit like a hammer in the health care system. Today we have approx. 300 midwives in Norway to cover more than 60000 pregnant women per year. So the situation is very challenging, a situation we really need to take seriously. I think that this is one step in one direction – we hope that after the election we can get a multiple that makes us really able to get speed on the delivery care, which is so fundamental. SV supports all suggestions in the configuration. I'm taking up our own suggestions. Proposal No. 4 is a proposal that we are not primarily in favour of, but we can support it subsidiaryly if the other proposals fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4899	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4904	We have a safe maternity care in Norway. Child and mother mortality is among the lowest in the world. National guidelines for the provision of maternity care make clear requirements for health businesses and municipalities and for cooperation between them. I assume that both the hospitals and the municipalities base the professional recommendations on the development of the maternity provision. Between the 1970s and 1990s, the number of food establishments in Norway was almost halved. The births were moved from maternity centres to hospitals, partly due to increasing medical preparedness requirements, but also because the birthers wanted a wider range of services, such as: pain relief. In some places, the number of maternity wards is reduced when hospitals are merged, as in Eastfold. There is no ongoing centralisation of the supply of food, but some small feeding rooms are still closed due to declining birth rates. Fortunately, there are popular feeding rooms in the districts, such as Alta, Finnsnes and Tynset. In Odda, in Lærdal and in Nordfjord, good start-ups are established with midwife preparedness and the possibility to carry out births if there is a risk that the birthing will not reach the maternity ward in time. National health and hospital plans state that the distribution of smaller food departments and feeding rooms must ensure proximity to food supply, even outside the large women’s clinics. The number of transport births has been claimed to be increasing, but statistics show that the number has halved in the last 15 years, while unplanned births outside hospitals have remained stable at 0.6–0.7 pst. of all births. A significant proportion of unplanned births occur in central areas, so there must be reasons other than distance that are significant. Health establishments are responsible for the proper manning of food establishments, and they must develop crew planning systems that allow large fluctuations in activity to be managed. Having a midwife present during childbirth increases the likelihood of normal birth and less need for pain relief. In the 2017 mission document, I therefore asked health companies to document when recommendations are not followed up, and to use the results for quality improvement. Representatives have proposed a review of the financial instruments of the primary health service. Several of the follow-up points in the primary health service involve a closer look at how the services are financed, but we have strengthened the health and school health services in the municipalities by over 1 billion. kr during this ageing period in order to provide better and more accessible health services to children, young people and families. One of the concrete results that the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen had in mind is that the last year is the annual development of 418 more annual works – 640 more during this period – and that last year there was an increase in the number of midwifery positions in the municipalities of 12 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4922	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4927	Governments have included in the mission document to follow the professional guidelines on one-to-one care in the active phase of birth. I was happy when it happened, because it was a problem that this was not measured in the services, and then we did not know how this was actually related. But there are many other things in the professional guidelines that are equally important – both for maternity wards, for maternity clinics, and for midwifery. Will the Council of State also include this in a mission document, or is it entirely certain that the other quality requirements will be followed in the services, as stated in the guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4934	I have asked health companies to document when the recommendations related to the presence at birth are not followed up – this to use the results for a quality improvement. But I would warn against making the mission documents so that we ask for reporting on all the quality requirements for the service, because it will be completely insurmountable. It's probably not going to improve the situation either, because then everything becomes equally important, and a person doesn't work systematically with it. This was a specific requirement that came in 2017, because I believe as the representative that there is a need for more attention around it, but I assume, of course, that the requirements made professionally for the services are followed up, but that does not mean that we need to have a system where everything is reported.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4939	There is now a shorter time for birth, and they will be followed up in the municipal health service, in line with the guidelines for good maternity care. But many municipalities don't have midwives enough, and the lay time has been cut short without the municipalities getting more money. My question is whether the Council of State thinks it makes sense that the responsibility for pregnant women is pushed from hospital to municipality without having followed the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4944	The municipalities have got more money to hire more midwives. It has also given rise to significant growth, not least with what this government has achieved in the municipalities in this area. It is absolutely necessary, as the representative has said, for women to have a better follow-up during maternity and a better service. I'm glad to see that the bet, which, not least, our cooperation parties Christian People's Party and Left have also been busy, now yields very good results in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4949	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4967	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e4976	The Committee agrees with the proposers that it is important to facilitate physical activity in school and that physical activity is essential for good growth and mastering throughout life. Being physically active also contributes to good functioning and self-driving in older years. A functionally healthy population — young and old — is simply an important resource for society. Research shows that being active, getting sweaty and really "hery" helps, not only in physics, but it also protects against depression and other psychological plagues. Therefore, the right considers that physical activity is an important area worthy of increased attention and effort. I am pleased that the government has already taken more steps to facilitate more physical activity in the population – yes, in fact, so wide and in so many areas that it is difficult to mention everyone here. I therefore refer to the Council's letter of reply to the Committee. As announced in the government's political platform and mentioned in the «People's Health Communication – Mestring and Opportunities», the government has also presented a big message on the policy of outdoor life, «Freedom – Nature as a source of health and quality of life». The government is also working on an action plan for outdoor life aimed at strengthening the overall work on outdoor life and the role of the outdoors in public health. I would also like to remind you that the escalation plan for the drug field places increased emphasis on the use of physical activity as both a preventive factor and in treatment and aftercare. In addition to the launch by the government of a programme for public health work in the municipalities to help strengthen the systematic public health work of the municipalities, the grant for the establishment of health, learning and mastering services has also continued. Also mentioned is the Government's new commitment Life throughout its life, focusing in particular on the importance of movement and active use of the body for good adults and the elderly — important for good functioning and mastering even in older years. There is also a lot of good work in the field of physical activity in kindergartens around the country. Also in the case of physical activity at school, the government has followed up the government platform's objectives in this area. There is therefore a lot of good work going on in Norwegian schools to facilitate daily physical activity. Experience from several schools around the country shows that taking advantage of the local space for action finds local adaptations to the organisation of physical activity beyond the mandatory time. After several years of experimentation and efforts to disseminate good practice, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left wish to strengthen this important work by proposing the following: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate increased physical activity in primary school in more subjects than physical training and for more mental training in school.’ I have a great desire to be allowed to thank me warmly. This is my last post from this pulpit after 14 years here at Stortinget. Thank you so much for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5002	Too many Nordics are too little physically active. We know that there is a clear link between physical activity as a young person and health as an adult. That's why we have to start early. Facilitating more physical activity is an investment in the health of young people and an important basis for a healthy lifestyle later in life. At school we reach all the kids, and therefore the school is an important arena to ensure that all children have the opportunity to be in physical activity. Good walking and cycling routes also contribute to young people having the opportunity to go and cycle to school, but in addition, the Workers' Party will introduce one hour of physical activity daily. Physical activity provides both better learning and better health. Several schools in Norway have shown that physical activity is fully possible every day without significant cost increases. They have e.g. have gained more activity through good practical organisation of outpatient schools in different disciplines, a longer break in midday activity or cooperation with local sports teams and school leisure schemes. ‘The daily physical activity in the school is incredibly important, there is no better response.’ This is a quote. The words are from Jan Åge Fjørtoft, who led the so-called Fjørtoft Committee, which this government put down at the Minister of Culture. It makes me even more surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party are fighting against this, and that the Left secures them a majority in order not to do the most effective acts of public health. The Labour Party wants a health policy that prevents effectively and that takes a broad approach. That is why I would like to address our proposal, which the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, supported by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, stands together, namely to introduce an hour of physical activity in school, funded as a public health measure. This is not my last time in the pulpit, but it is a very good proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5013	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5018	Physical activity is very important. It is important for children, it is important for adults, and it is important for the elderly. Physical activity has no age limit, and we know that activity across generations is undoubtedly positive. That is why we need to look at these contexts when developing action plans for physical activity. For school activity doesn't have to be an hour when children are set to run around the school building or sent to the gym for an ordinary gym class. Too many children will only experience this as an extra feeling rather than promoting positive experiences around being active. This will therefore work against its purpose. We have to think bigger and look at the possibilities that exist in the local environment. It's about seeing the potential and possibilities of activity outside the school fence. Activities at school can be combined with e.g. activity in nursing homes or in old-age homes. There are few things older in the nursing home that appreciate as much as visiting, and especially from children. A very special atmosphere is created when these generations meet. We also know that all kindergartens have school starters. Why can't we let the first-graders at high school be more active with the school starters? First-graders will learn about being role models, and school starters will feel secure by making friends at school. The possibilities are many, but if we're going to get this done, we have to make plans that embrace the whole, not plans that are «shared and divided», to quote from the NTP debate a little earlier today. Therefore, an action plan covering both kindergarten, school, community and leisure is important. In this plan we have to dry to think new and different. We have to make sure that this activity doesn't essentially become an extra forced gym class for the students. It will most likely only seem negative for children and young people's view of activity, and perhaps especially for those who are not so happy about it, but who we would like to be more active. School activities should also be able to be combined with other subjects, and we need to make sure that this is something that students look forward to. Many schools have made it clear, they've brought mathematics education into the woods and at the same time are ready to let physical activity become part of the math class. It's been very successful. When activity becomes a natural part of teaching, that's when you've succeeded. It gives children a natural and healthy relationship to being active, and it is precisely this that must be the goal of our action plan. I will not sing, as the representative Knutsen did, but I would nevertheless like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and the good debates. For this, the last health debate during this period is, at least most likely, the most recent one.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5033	When I, as a health spokesperson of the Christian People's Party and Vice-Chairman of the Party together with Party leader Hareide, choose to promote a proposal for a representative, it's because we want to show how important physical activity is for public health. We are pleased that an overall increase today calls on the government to promote a new action plan for physical activity with concrete actions in several social areas and arenas, with the active involvement of the social partners, the Norwegian Sports Association and the associations of outdoors. I would also like to point out that an overall committee particularly stresses the need for the development of low-threshold services and the plan to include objectives of strengthening the overall outdoor work and the role of outdoor life in public health. Outdoor activities are a good and free source of activity in many age and population groups. Nature is available to most locations in Norway throughout the year. Low-threshold activity in nature is a unique tool to promote physical activity in the population. For the least active groups, good organisation, safety and easy and close access to recreational areas are important. The planning processes in the municipalities are becoming very important. The Committee considers that an action plan for physical activity must contain concrete measures to strengthen the overall nature of outdoor work and the role of outdoor life in public health work. These are the leaders and signals that we in the Christian People's Party are going to follow up, and we look forward to the further work on just this. We all agree that public health and physical activity are important. We agree that the prevention perspective is important, and we agree on much more. But then the question is, how are we going to achieve the goals we set? How do we use our political authority and power as elected representatives for the benefit of public health? What concrete action are we taking? The Christian People's Party is impatient, and we believe it is time to initiate concrete action. We therefore promote proposals together with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, asking the government to promote the issue of how the school day can be organised in order to achieve at least one hour of physical activity for all students every day through a gradual introduction funded as a public health measure. This is a specific order that we would have liked to have been made now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5048	First of all, I am pleased that we received such a broad common proposal, starting with a new action plan for physical activity. He who is today has gone out. We write in the proposal that the new action plan should contain concrete actions in several areas of society and arena: kindergarten, school, workplace, care for the elderly, transport, the community and leisure. Both the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Centre were proponents. The background is a fundamental health policy priority. We have social health differences in Norway, and physical inactivity, which follows social dividing lines, is one of the most important reasons for that. We can win a lot in health policy if we get physical activity up to the recommended levels. It's also a public health goal that we're going to get a 25-pst. reduction in life-style diseases – non-infectious diseases – such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer and chronic lung diseases by 2025, and it is also a clear goal that we have to cope with 10 pst. reduction in the occurrence of insufficient physical activity by 2025. We're not going to be able to achieve these goals if we don't do anything more active, especially with diet and physical inactivity. I am pleased that there is a unanimous multiple in the setting to ask for a new action plan. It is important to note that natural outdoor life is an important area to facilitate. It's a very low threshold, and that's where many people might start when you're going to be more physically active. We have received e-mails to the committee that training centres are not mentioned. But at least I see that the Council of State has mentioned them in its answer, and I want to say from the pulpit that yes, training centres must also be part of such a strategy. So to the proposal of one hour of physical activity in the school: we have suggested that before. It was the same plural that voted it down. There's a cause for concern that inactivity in school is happening at the same time as non-response in sports, and that people are starting to drop out of high school. So I agree that the youth ball is a nice place to start, but I think it also has to be all over the line. This is not my last post – although someone might have wanted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5063	It can quickly be my last post on this pulpit. When you are elected to the equalization mandate, there is an uncertain existence. I think it's great that maybe the last post then is about public health, because, dear big ones, I've been this big one's toughest public health politician. Okay, I was delighted to be the case rapporteur for the Public Health Communication, but we have also done some tough priorities in the budget work in the Left. Perhaps to the small despair of the Council of State, we have prioritised public health in front of escalation in the hospital sector. There are no other parties that have done. I've got some pepper for it, but a little debate we need to have in Stortinget, and it's actually about priorities of money as well. We've got a couple of billions of public health through civil cooperation. I think that's good. It's about walking and cycling paths, it's about areas of activity, not least about mental health, which has been given an equal place in public health work, and it's about swimming training, not least in kindergartens. We are now discussing the responsibility of another committee – the school. Why is the proposal not about activity in kindergarten? Because the early work is going to be here: the earlier we incorporate the good habits, the more likely they are to hang out with life. To provide activities for children and young people: low-threshold outdoors and organised recreational areas are particularly important. That's what's growing among people. That's what most people want to do. There's not so much performance and that to score goals. People want to enjoy going out into nature, and we have to help make better sense so that more people get a relationship to it. The nature of the learning arena is a lot about pedagogics, and it means that we also have to start early in teacher education, so that more people take with them the outing school and the field education in their subjects. In kindergarten, we now have good experience with outdoor gardens, outdoor children's gardens and environmental children's gardens. Then the Left will have another breakthrough in public health policy, and it's about increasing physical activity in primary school in more subjects than in physical training and more mental training in school – for that part more mental strength training. Because there's something missing in school, it's putting the body and the head and the emotional register together. When 60 pst. by the body trainers are skilled and 40 pst. are unskilled, we have something to pick up from school to bring them mental strength training into school. Then not all students need to change to gym clothes each time, but can get good training for their heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5078	It is no surprise that the government and Left do not want to enter one hour of physical activity in the schools. But it is positive that a joint committee is so clearly leading the action plan for physical activity in general, as he has expired. For SV, there has been a journey from 2005 that has been quite long, where we start by insisting that the brain is not alone, that he is part of a body. Because it was they who thought that the school was just a place to learn, and everything else – as physical activity and food in the school – was subordinate. The focus should be on learning. The rest got a handle on themselves, in family, etc. Now one starts to see more and more that the school is a much wider arena, and that the brain is not alone, he's part of a body, and that one has to see these things in context. Since we know the positions of each other very well in this matter, I thought that I could only bring a little warning. The major trends in youth health are that either one is training too much, or one is doing too little training. Either is one for active or for inactive. Both parts give a very bad relationship to their own bodies, and I think that in our eagerness to have a higher pulse in the population and get people moving, we have to cultivate a healthy view of our own bodies, and not the measures we're giving here, in a negative direction, that the whole way is going to be a very positive relationship to our own bodies. Because it's also a deep challenge in the population, that mental health and vision of your own body give a very worrying signal, and that when we want more physical activity in school, not only do we see physical activity as a tool for learning. Physical activity is also a goal in itself and a good in itself. It won't be so good just to stand and jump the multiplication tables. One may have got the tour up with the young guy and the other, but there's no goal in itself. Physical activity must be seen as something that is positive and good, anyway. With that, I am grateful for the cooperation with the Health Committee, where, as one of several, I have been satellite and followed in their work. There's a nice bunch of people even if there's sharp rounds here and there.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5090	First of all, I would say that I am very pleased that the last health debate in Stortinget this session is about public health. Physical activity is important for the health, well-being and learning of students at school. There is a broad consensus that we need to strengthen the work of promoting the physical activity of the population. I can assure you that the government is concerned about it. As the Committee is aware, there is a lot of work going on in school to facilitate daily physical activity. Both experience and research show that schools, especially in the middle and early stages, find local adaptations and facilitate physical activity beyond mandatory time. The challenge is youth, in the eyes of the government. Only half of the 15-year-olds follow the recommendation of at least one hour of daily physical activity, so the need for increased physical activity is high. The experiment with testing and evaluation of different models with additional hours of physical activity and exercise per week will provide us with knowledge of how best to meet this particular student group. As the Committee points out, efforts from several sectors of society are required to succeed in increasing the physical activity of the population. The government will make it easier to choose an active lifestyle, both in everyday life and in leisure. The threshold must be lowered and affordable for more. It is a public health policy objective to reduce insufficient physical activity by 10 pst. by 2025. It's ambitious, but we've laid a foundation in policy and strategy development that takes this into account. There are solutions that involve both targeted action for risk groups, as part of the healthcare service, and efforts that embrace the whole population through universal and societal measures, including: as part of other spatial and transport planning and societal development. National expectations for regional and municipal planning are leading, and the intentions contribute to the coordination of national policies. I think it would be natural to consider the need for a separate action plan for physical activity in the next public health report. Public health notification is an important document to ensure national coordination in order to promote physical activity in the population, and it supports the community sector in this context. A large-scale notification provides a framework for a comprehensive cross-sectoral effort and will at the same time be binding on the local and other sectors. But I notice that a joint committee wants a treatment plan for physical activity, and of course it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5107	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5112	It was during the treatment of public health in the previous ageing period that the majority agreed on a formulation that the goal is an hour of physical activity in the school every day. When this government took over, it was put aside, and in the government platform there was a new wording that would facilitate an increase in physical activity – or something similar. My question is why the council would have the goal of an hour of physical activity in school every day, which was in the previous public health message. What was the reason for that change?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5119	This discussion has gone on for many years, and different parties have participated in different proposals that have had very different content. I think what's important is to take the right steps in the right order. What's the main challenge, which I was also faced with in my post, is physical activity at the youth stage. At the same time, young people are becoming less active in leisure. We need more knowledge about how to ensure that this is carried out in such a way that we actually also reach those who are already at least physically active — just in that age group. That's what the government has prioritised money for. I am more concerned with what we actually achieve than with political objectives that are not followed up with measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5124	Is it the case that government and government are opposed to children and young people – wherever they live, and what kind of school they go on – having one hour of physical activity in school every day? Is a principle contrary to what a do in terms of objectives for which there were multiples?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5129	It is precisely this kind of debate that has not led anywhere, and which I have felt has gone like pingpong discussions in Stortinget over many years. It does not contribute to any more physical activity or respect for political discussions. I'm more concerned about initiating the right measures, to improve the basis for getting more physical activity in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5136	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5141	This debate and line change reminds me of a debate we had in the Drama a few years ago. In the autumn of 2013, the Drammen Sports Council arranged an inspection to Trudvang School in Sogndal, who had already introduced an hour of physical activity every day. In spring 2014, Drammen Arbeiderparti promoted a proposal in the City Council to do the same. We were voted down, among others. by the Right and Advance Party. Two profiled right-hand women commented in the Official Journal of Drammen: ‘... there are limits to what the school should fix’. There's someone in this room who probably recognizes that statement. ‘The parent is primarily responsible. But they are the ones who have made the children of the world." Commented the current Vice-President of the Right in Drammen. The resistance did not last long. To that is the argument for one hour's physical activity per day too good. It's about early action. It is about public health, integration, the prevention of social differences in health, physical and mental health, the improvement of the learning environment, and it is about the basis of lifelong mobility. The same harvest, Drammen City Council unanimously decided to introduce one hour of physical activity per day from the school year 2015-2016 – as the first major city in the country. In the spring of 2015, many schools were already running pilot projects. How could it go so fast? Well, because it was good partners to play with. Buskerud sports circuit has worked with sports teams in school for a long time. The sports circuit has trained young activity leaders through the Active365 project. Several of the city's sports would contribute. Konnerud Sport teams cooperate with the schools in the urban district on the project ‘Av Jugend für Jugend’. Three primary schools have merged to split into a position to coordinate the activities associated with the sport team. The youth school is with activity managers. The Ball Club of the Drama has been operating sports leisure for many years, and now the sports circuit has further developed the project under the heading Active community, based on the further development of a well-tried model from Canada, the goal of which is ‘Physical Literacy’ for all 12-year-olds in a combination of active sports and mobility. It's not just in the drama you're in. Sylling school in Lier was first. There, the principal took the matter in his own hands within the financial framework he already had. In the smoke, the sport team ROS has made their own model. The sports club's got its own. Several municipalities have reported their interest. The Fjørtoft committee has proposed it. The sport has been able to form an obligatory partnership. The models exist. Unfortunately, it seems that the proposal does not get a majority here today. Especially strange is that the Left, who says that school is their most important thing, is not in it. Let's hope that the same thing happens on the Storting as in the Drama, that it doesn't take long before all the games take the point. Then we may be able to reach a decision before the municipalities take the inside swing at us and simply do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5164	This case is about physical activity. I would like to address a completely different activity, namely the activity of the Committee and our cooperation during this period, since this is the last debate with the Health and Care Committee during this major period. I would like to thank you for a very good cooperation and not least the representatives who have said no to re-election. Many have made considerable efforts for health and for society for many years. During this major period, the Committee has dealt with eight major messages. These are messages covering the whole area of health, from the public health area to hospitals and the highly specialised hospitals. One has dealt with 64 proposals, 88 representatives – not an insignificant part of them here tonight. And the committee has been wondering a lot. I'm not going to mention individual representatives – you know who you are – but until now there are 1,017 written questions, and this number is going to be higher, because the deadline is known on July 1st, and I expect that there will be a number of questions this past week. And it's asked 201 question-time questions. So this is a committee that has really worked, and has made many important decisions that are going to shape Health-Norway for years to come. Thank you so much for your cooperation!
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5171	This gave me probably one last occasion! It was the representative Lise Christoffersen who invited her to it when she said that it is particularly strange that the left is not there. First of all, I think it is a little strange that a matter relating to school is promoted in the Health and Care Committee. And then I also think it's a little strange that someone is financing it as a public health measure when one over four years has not prioritised people's health over hospitals, and the most important growth has been there. I stand here with a very good conscience. Firstly, the Left has prioritised the money for public health campaigns. Secondly, we're concerned that the school has some challenges, as we might solve by using one hour's physical activity. But the left has also noticed, as the representative Lise Christoffersen was now inside, that Drammen has solved this on their own, that many municipalities have actually done this. They haven't necessarily set off an entire hour, and one school hour is for the rest of 45 minutes. This is also an economic challenge when, probably, a school day is to be extended in order to get this in place. The money is also included, and they are not granted through this proposal. Then I also hear that the sport has a very dominant place in the drama. For the Workers' Party, sport is usually in the locomotive, while for example: The outdoor life gets a little further behind the train set. For the left, it's important to point out that they also have a place in creating the activity in school, in out-of-school, and that these are low-school people that it's reasonable to invest in, and that they too are going to be involved in the hard work that this is. Finally, thank you for your very good cooperation in this committee. I'm impressed – I've been inside this for four years – that we've asked so many questions. It surprises me when I hear that number. But it has been a working and eager committee, and we have had good cooperation. And as the Council of State said, we're going to put footprints behind us for years to come, and I dare say that it'll be better in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5202	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number The cases 26–36 are the second case of legal proceedings, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5333	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 26–36.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5354	In Case No. Three, let's draw proposal No. 30, which has been submitted as a loose proposal. I would like to give a brief explanation of vote on proposal No. 44, which reads: ‘The government is asking for the start of the construction of Arna–Stanghelle in 2021.’ With this in mind, the proposers, and the others who support the proposal, understand that this is the joint railway and road project between Arna and Stanghelle. So that's the explanation of how to understand it, and then I have reason to believe that both the Green Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Workers' Party will support it. In addition, I would like to refer to case no. 12 draw proposal No 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5368	Then it's noted. Mr Tajik has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5373	That applies to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Labour Party considers it to be a very unusual matter. We do not take this lightly, but the trust between the parties is not supposed to be used in the way that I have experienced has been the case here. So we're talking about changes in a delegation just three days before the size falls apart. The Foundation is presented as a pure internal party case that puts the Size and the Party Groups in a difficult situation. In addition, it is difficult for the individual, I believe, both for that debt and for the colleagues, who have to decide on how co-representatives should be treated. So the Labour Party is going to vote against the setting in case number. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5378	Then it is Nikolai Astrup, also for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5383	Explanation of vote on case No. 2: For the Right, the principle that the parties themselves decide who should sit in the different delegations is an important principle, and I therefore recommend that the Right Members vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5388	Hans Olav Syversen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5393	This also applies to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We in the Christian People's Party are usually in line with the principle that the parties represent the selection of the people who are to hold international office, in this case the Nordic Council. But when we heard the debate, it was probably not exactly a very common matter anyway. It was quite clear that the representative, Mr Vosskensen, did not want to resign himself, and it was also clear that it is not how she has done it, which is the reason for the proposal we have on the table. Based on this, we believe that the setting does not justify what is the actual situation in this case, but I do not want to put any precedent in it either. However, I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote against the vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5398	Vegar Solhjell – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5404	SV is a supporter of the principle that the Storting selects people to the delegations and the practice and practice that the parties have been given great confidence in choosing themselves. But that is trust under responsibility, and if it is abused in a public way to be sanctioned in an internal criminal reaction, we should reject it. That is why the SV will also be voting against the election committee's proposal on this issue, not least after hearing the debate earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5409	Geir Pollestad – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5414	I want to join the briefings given by the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and SV. Elections to the international office of Stortinge shall not be and is not a coup d'état to punish in a party's internal case. So I want the Center Party to vote against this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5419	Ola Elvestuen – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5424	The yardstick of the Nordic Council suddenly became very important at the brink of the collapse. From the left side, we think the progress that has been, that this is now at the very end, has been a strange process. We still have a great deal of respect for the fact that the party groups are going to decide who they are going to have in their positions. At the same time, I feel that this change really doesn't make any practical change, assuming that we're at the bottom of a session -- that's two days until we split up. So I think I would recommend the Left Group that we do not vote for this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5429	Then we're ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 was the election of a new alternate member of the Electoral Committee. The case has been processed. The vote on file No. 2 will be carried out after the vote on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5441	A total of 104 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-10, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 11-17, from Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Centerpartiet the proposals No 18-25, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens the proposals No 26–104, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 30, from the Socialist Left Party, is later drawn. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 18 and 22, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the maintenance of the framework of the national transport plan for the period, but to base the following changes on the economic approach to create a green national transport plan: (a) to reduce the framework allocation for road objectives by 155 billion in total periods 1 and 2 and to reprioritise as follows: (i) to the reduced framework, prioritize the following items with a total of 30.5 billion, distributed as follows: Item 30 Rijksvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejs, + 5 billion Post 30 Rijksvejsvejsvejs, + 9 billion Post 30 Riksvejsvejsvejsvejsvejsvejs, + 0.5 billion Post 31 Rijksvejsvejsvejsp, incl. tunnel safety regulation, + 2 billion ii) Prioritize down and streamline the following items together with a total of 185.5 billion in the framework allocation for road purposes: Item 23 Operations and maintenance, reduce by 8 billion Item 29 Remuneration for OPS, reduce by 15.5 billion Item 30 Road investment: Large projects, reduce by 82 billion Item 30 Road investment: land-use planning, reduce by 14 billion cap. 1321 New Weier AS, reduce by 60 billion Cape. 1330, Item 75 Grants for reduced tolls outside urban areas, reduce by 6 billion b) Create a new point in the state framework distribution: Decommissioned funds from Avinor, with NOK 20 billion in total for period 1. The amount corresponds to the profit from the commercial operation of Avinor. c) Increase the framework distribution for rail purposes for a period of 128 billion in total for periods 1 and 2. This involves completion of all projects started such as Outer IC, including Genist calculator, KVU-Oslonavet, the entire route between Arna and Voss and the Railway during the period, as well as putting more into good practices, maintenance, and starting on several new projects such as double tracks on the Trønderbahnen, Nord-Norway and lightning tracks. (d) Increase the framework allocation for coastal management by 4.5 billion in total for periods 1 and 2. Earmark for electrification and for getting more goods from road to sea. (e) Increase the framework for item 1330, item 63, Special grants for large collective projects, under “Special transport measures” by 39 billion in total for periods 1 and 2. This will increase the share of grants from 50 to 80 in large urban collective projects, increase the number of cities under urban growth agreements and finance more projects. (f) Increase the framework for New NTP actions by 3.5 billion in terms of periods 1 and 2. Including priority down entry 1311, entry 70, earmarked new airport in Mo in Rana, and launched two new bets: - Testing and purchasing electric aircraft, especially in Finnmark and North Norway. - a new subsidy scheme to electrify the speedboats along the coast.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the government’s share of large collective projects from 50 to 80 per cent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5482	The proposals are then put to the vote. 19-21 and proposals Nos. 23–25, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make the following changes in the planning of the aviation sector in Norway: - include Avinor's total activities, including all capacity changes, expansions, etc. at all airports in Stortingen’s treatment of the national transport plan - ensure that the commercial profits from Avinor’s activities are transferred to the State budget and disposed of and reported within the framework of transport priorities provided by the National Transport Plan - postpone any further plans and developments that result in increased capacity in aviation until air traffic is mainly carried out without climate impact. - suspend the duty-free system as soon as possible, 'Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to provide one or more real scenarios on how priorities in the national transport plan can achieve the 40 % cut in greenhouse gas emissions from the non-quota sector by 2030 compared to 1990, with realistic estimates of technology development and development in transport needs and habits.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government in 2018 to provide a revised national transport plan based on four overall leadership: - NTP shall ensure that, from the start of the period, the transport sector contributes at least its proportional share to a national emission path that provides at least 40 % cut in the greenhouse gas emissions from the non-quota sector by 2030 in relation to the 1990 emissions - NTP shall, both in terms of time and economic priority, develop cycle paths and cycle and gangways across the country, develop public transport, convert to an emission-free road, coastal and aviation traffic, maintain and ensure race safety, rather than the development of new roads and aerodromes - NTP shall plan and facilitate, to a greater extent, efficiency gains and lower investment needs in infrastructure resulting from phase-in of self-driving technologies, artificial intelligence and unmanned technology. - NTP shall be more structured and facilitated for the time- and cost-effective development of public transport infrastructure’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the planning and construction of large capacity-enhancing motorway projects in and around cities.’ 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for car-free centres and reduced passenger and commercial traffic on the roads in and through cities.’ 25 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2018 is asked to set up a technology pot for testing self-driving buses and combined mobility solutions.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5514	The proposals are then put to the vote. 26, 38, 56 and 63, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government to base the proposed framework on the following changes in its further implementation of the national transport plan: Measures Supplemental/deductive period 1 Addendum minus 2nd period Supplement/deduction of road tolls Racing safety 3500 1500 State roads 900 1500 Cycle paths 3000 3000 Electrification of road transport services 3000 3000 Other road applications [[incl. New Weier AS]] -63400 -62900 Urban Environment Agreements 18000 32000 Bicycle Reward Scheme 3000 3500 Railway applications [[of which tolls:]] 29200 62900 Coastal purpose 2000 -2000 Coastal electrification 2000 2000 ‘... Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to create a road map to allow the state to take over the bulk of the operation and maintenance work for the national roads at a fairer cost.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: «As a general rule, the Government asks the Government to use tolls for the partial financing of railway development of all sections competing with road.» Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a ring-fenced flight fee between the major cities to finance the investigation, planning and construction of light rails in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5693	The proposals are then put to the vote. 27–29, 31–37, 40–43, 45, 47–49, 51–53, 57–62, 64, 65, 71, 73–82, 84–87, 89, 90, 94, 95, 97–101 and 104, of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The State Road Administration is asked to assume overall responsibility for the planning and establishment of charging infrastructure for electrification of the car park.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce toll tests on older trucks in the Oslo soil tunnel as a traffic regulation measure.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop further work on Hordfast.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop further work on the Møreak and to initiate an investigation into the Romsdal Saxon.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Sotra connection is built with one block of reserved public transport/cooperation in both directions.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to wind up New Roads such as AS and subject to control by the organisation Statens vägvesen. The project portfolio is reviewed with a view to scaling down or stopping road projects that weaken the basis for collective solutions and freight solutions on rail. Wages and salaries are brought into line with other pay levels in the State Road Service.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The decision repeals Decision 692-695 [[2016-2017]] Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a pre-payment road pricing scheme for all heavy goods vehicles as an alternative to road taxes on fuel, where there is a difference between the EURO class on the cars.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The size transfers planning capacity from the State Road Service to BaneNOR’. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in its submission to the National Budget for 2018, to submit a proposal on purchasing fees and annual heavy transport charges to stimulate zero-emission solutions in the vehicle fleet.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The decision repeals Decision 548-550 [[2016-2017]] Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The decision repeals Decision 538-541 [[2016-2017]] Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The size repeals Decisions 210-2013 [[2015-2016]] Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all routes are planned and upgraded for a speed of at least 250/300 km/h’.» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the start of the construction of the Ringeriksbanen in 2019.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to realise the Trunder Railway as a functionally double-track path as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all the external InterCity routes are completed in 2030 in line with the current national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the completion of the internal InterCity routes in the first planning period, so that the external InterCity routes can be completed in 2030 in line with the national transport plan in force.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to plan for the start-up of Bislet Tunnel during the second scheduled period’.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for strengthening the local rail network in the central eastern region.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to plan for the interconnection of Gjøvikbanen and Dovrebanen in order to realise the project during the second planning period.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to cooperate actively with the Swedish authorities on a concept selection inquiry for lynching between Oslo and Stockholm.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to strengthen the R & D effort for more efficient railway/line train construction processes in its 2018 draft budget.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all diesel locomotives run on biofuels from 1 January 2019.’; Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that passenger services on the Nordlandsbanen and Raumabanen are operated by hydrogen locomotives as soon as possible and no later than 2020.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement a high-speed rail KVU in a multi-use concept between Oslo and Trondheim as soon as possible.’ [[Hamar]] Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a Lynzog Company SF to plan, design, develop and facilitate the operation of short-haul trains in a multi-purpose concept, between cities in Norway and with the capitals of Norway and Denmark. The carrier is assigned a task to draw up a national plan for a high-speed train network in which the first sections are prepared for the principle decisions on construction during the forthcoming large-scale period.’;» Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government requests the correction of Tinnosban during the first scheduled period’.» Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further work to be done on the Ålgårdbahn in the first planning period.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct Enova to set up a competition for the operation of a hydro-powered maritime transport route between Norwegian or Norwegian and foreign ports.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government requests zero emissions for all tourism vessels in all World Heritage fjords and other cruise fjords.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all supply ships be prepared for shore-side electricity from 2020.’; Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all cruise ships be prepared for shore-side power from 2021.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government is asking the oil industry to demand BAT as well as low and zero emission solutions for all offshore supply operations.’ Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the adopted biofuel directive on domestic shipping enters into force from 2019.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government requests priority to ensure access of the Bergen–Churches coast route to shore-side electricity in all ports where it is located for at least 3 hours at least one road.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that future offers of the Bergen–Churches coast route are based on zero-emission technology/fuel’.» Proposal No. 80 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to require by law public acquisitions that all collective bids be based on zero-emission technology and fuel by 2025.» Proposal No. 81 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to require by law public acquisitions that all public transport services require low- and zero-emission technologies and fuels.» Proposal No. 82 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government to require by law public acquisitions that all purchases of cars, heavier vehicles and other means of transport be low- and zero-emission technologies, as the technology allows.» Sales No. 84 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a National Parking Policy Guide in urban areas. The guide shall be designed as a national maximum parking standard in such a way that it is a state level guideline based on the Planning and Building Act.’;» Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the country’s location of its own activities places a decisive emphasis on reducing society’s transport needs’.» Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to impose on public undertakings a systematic monitoring of transport impacts as part of the decision-making basis prior to the location of such establishments.’;» Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that state enterprises comply with municipal parking standards.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that commercial transport and transit traffic are included in the objectives of reducing urban car traffic’.» Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the objective of the urban environment agreements so that the objective is to reduce total road traffic’.» Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that a path solution for lower Rome and cross-linking in Groruddalen is financed through an urban environment agreement, which forms part of a strategy to reduce road traffic in the region’.» Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal for a system of charges for goods carried by car to finance the reward for the carriage of goods by road or refrigerator, in line with the recommendations of the Good Strategy Selection Board.’» Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop Avinor’s work on planning another runway in Flesland.’ Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to abolish the duty-free regime and to come back with various proposals in connection with submission of the 2018 State Budget. Avinor’s airport charges shall be converted in such a way as not to increase the overall charges on the short-haul network.’;» Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a passenger fee for 2018 in respect of a trip abroad based on aircraft type and distance to contribute to greenhouse gas reductions.’ Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The size of the budget submitted to the Government for 2018 requires the introduction of a biofuel consumption requirement on domestic flights that ensures that a specified proportion of the fuel used is biofuels.’; Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The Government requests that low-emission technology and biofuels be required for the purchase of routes on the short-range network.’ Proposal No. 104 sounds: «The government is asked to initiate the process of converting Avinor into state enterprises.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e5986	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 46, 102 and 103, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to start electrification planning of the Rørosbanen and Solørbanen with a view to starting in the first level period.’ Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government to instruct Avinor to extend the runway in Alta and pay the municipality for the advance of the municipality during the period 2018-2021.’ Proposal No. 103 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct Avinor to extend the runway in Kirkenes during the second NTP planning period.’; The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6016	The proposals are then put to the vote. 50, 54, 55, 66, 72, 83 and 96, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asking for faster progress in the construction of the Oslo Tunnel.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to realize double tracks for Ofotbanen in the second planning period in cooperation with the Swedish authorities.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a concept selection inquiry into the Tromsbanen in the first planning period for the forthcoming national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of construction of the Railway during the second scheduled period.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to require by law public acquisitions that all ferries and passenger boat routes be low and zero emissions where technology permits.’ Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the CO 2 fund of industry is based on a country-to-business agreement, the functioning of the NO x fund of industry, with the aim of reducing sufficient emissions to reduce emissions from the transport and fishing industries by 50 per cent by 2030, compared to 1990 levels.’ Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Avinor’s work on planning a third runway at the Gardermoen is stopped.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6072	The proposals are then put to the vote. 39 and 93, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a common transport budget.’ Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the State contributes up to 70 % of the financing of large collective investment in large cities, in return for the commitment of cities to measures to limit road traffic by means of urban environmental agreements.’ The Labour Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6096	The proposals are then put to the vote. 67 to 70, 88, 91 and 92, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the tendering process for rail passenger services.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to give responsibility to the NSB as soon as possible for both traffic planning for passenger transport and responsibility for its own material.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for the organisation of the railways in Norway in an integrated company.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Coastal Administration to launch a national planning and establishment of shore-side electricity infrastructure in cooperation with local ports, with a view to providing shore-side electricity for the electrification of coastal transport.’ Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the offer of urban environmental agreements to several cities, in line with the recommendations of the trade unions.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The government is asking for an improvement in the methodology to ensure that urban environmental agreements achieve the objectives of limiting car traffic, as well as the means by which the objectives are not achieved, and to present a case to the Storting.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government is asking for better funding from municipalities for the operation of public transport by ensuring that urban environment agreements can also be used for the operation of public transport.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6146	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 44, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the start of the construction of Arna-Stanghelle in 2021.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6163	The proposals are then put to the vote. 11 and 12, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to increase the national transport plan framework from 2018 to 2029 by 7.17 billion. krona compared to the Meldnings framework. Paragraph 33 and base the following changes on the economic structure Measures [[2016-2017]] [[(middle. crowns):]] Supplemental/deductive period 1 Supplemental/deductive period 2 Amendments and new measures 5030 1340 Changes and new measures pave the way 2000 2000 Changes and new coastal measures 1013 487 Broadband 3000 3000 Racing safety 1000 1000 Tunnel safety regulation 2000 300 Road efficiencies 3000 3000 Efficiencies Path 5000 4000 ‘... Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of an ordinary toll proposition for E39 Ålesund-Molde for treatment in the Storting by the end of 2020.’ [[Mutter axis]]
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6286	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Seventeen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to instruct the State Road Administration to regulate the lateral traffic in the east of Fetsundbrua during the rush period, either by access control, rush time bombs or other measures, in order to give priority to traffic on rv. 22nd@item: inlistbox ‘... The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6304	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government formally requests the Dokka-Eina route and release the areas for other purposes’.» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have expressed support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6321	The proposals are then put to the vote. 15 and 16, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an obligatory broadband deployment plan.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on cost reduction in the areas of operation, maintenance and development of roads and railways.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6345	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a model in which the Vinmonopolet takes over the sale of alcoholic goods on duty-free sales at Norwegian airports.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6362	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4-10, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a roadmap for the adoption of different technologies in the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy for a future transport system based on shared mobility. The strategy must assess issues such as competition, data access and ownership, as well as mobility as a service and necessary legislative changes.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a national project for the development of artificial intelligence and unmanned technology.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to ensure transparency of algorithms that provide the basis for decisions that have a significant impact on individuals or society. The proposal should assess the need and who, where appropriate, should certify and control such algorithms.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national strategy for drones so that the potential for value creation and new jobs can be exploited.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to use development contracts, pilot projects or other appropriate instruments to promote the digitisation of maritime transport.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The size assumes that the four InterCity routes will be completed with double tracks by 2030, and therefore asks the government to come back with an overall plan for the development of the four routes that meet this ambition.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6412	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the State financing of fishing ports.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a review of the system of road haulage charges for rail freight, with the intention of avoiding any undertaking or carrier being unduly hit.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish relevant research programmes following the development of a new aerodrome and new district in Bodø to ensure that the knowledge and experience gained can benefit the entire country’. The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6452	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6556	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6587	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6618	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6707	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6723	During the debate, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal was later drawn up. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6743	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6767	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6783	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 2-9, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-9 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the E18 West Corridor development strategy so that it does not conflict with the Oslo Package 3 agreement and to ensure that there is no increase in capacity on the roads to Oslo, and that there will be collective fields in the Oslo entry years as the tolls increase.’ 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for State sub-financing of new signalling and securing facilities on the T-Bahn in new urban growth talks with Akershus and Oslo. 'Proposal No 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure state sub-financing of the Lower Romerike Bane solution in new urban capital talks with Akershus and Oslo.’ 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure State part-financing of the railway solution from Sandvika to the Lomme Valley in new urban growth talks with Akershus and Oslo.’ 6 sounds: «The government asks the government to secure state sub-financing of trams on Ring 2 and trams to Tonsenhagen in new urban capital talks with Akershus and Oslo. 'Proposal No 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to test 2+ fields on the Akershus and Oslo national road network. 'Proposal No 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further planning of the E6 Manglerud project to be carried out in line with the objectives of the Municipality of Oslo to reduce car traffic by a third by 2030.’ 9 sounds: ‘The Grand Government asks the Utterte S-train from Oslo S via Bislett and Storo to Groruddalen.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6825	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up on the introduction of 20 pst bomb discount. for Oslopackak 3 from the start of step 1, in line with the Stortingen’s decision on tariff and discount structure.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6873	In the course of the debate, the last paragraph of the proposal for a decision has been drawn. Proposals for decisions now read as follows: «As a new alternate member of the Nordic Council, the Depositary Representative Helge André Njåstad is elected.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6893	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Day Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. proposal No 5, from Stefan Heggelund on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6905	There is a vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to present its own case to the Stortinget for the promotion of social entrepreneurship in line with the intention of the Representative's proposal 82 S [[2016-2017]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6922	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party, and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to take appropriate action to increase the competence of public acquisitions by social entrepreneurs and public sector purchasers. In addition, the Government is asking the Government to strengthen and extend the social entrepreneurship subsidy scheme. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6932	SV also supports the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6944	The President understands that the Central Party should vote in favour of the proposal, so we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e6988	During the debate, Mr V. Bollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked as part of the future mental health strategy, to promote a municipal action plan to strengthen the mental health of the elderly, in the context of health promotion and prevention, to improve the diagnosis of mental illness in the elderly, as well as good, correct and adapted treatment of the elderly with mental disorders.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7056	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider measures to make foot therapy a more accessible and inclusive public health service offer.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7082	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests appropriate action from the government on the necessary measures to improve the prevention and treatment of patients with chronic ulcers, and to ensure that patients with ulcers receive comprehensive and coherent treatment aimed at reducing the number of patients with chronic ulcers and amputations. The case must also deal with the financing, availability and establishment of an offer in the specialist healthcare service, for example in the form of wound centres/honey clinics. In addition, it must propose measures to enhance competence and interaction at all levels, in order to ensure good and coordinated treatment for patients.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7115	During the debate, Ruth Grung put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to promote a case on how to ensure good recruitment of doctors for primary health services in the future. The matter must include how to ensure that primary health services are included in the medical study in the future, as well as the creation of several educational positions for doctors specialising in general medicine.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7149	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce and strengthen the Health Directorate grant scheme for jobs and projects in knowledge-based treatment methods, such as: music therapy, so that this type of treatment can be realised in several municipalities and health businesses.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for resources for follow-up research and other relevant research on the implementation of music therapy in services, focusing on user experiences and ways of working together.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7182	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked in dialogue with health businesses to propose incentives for knowledge-based implementation of music therapy in the services.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks from 2018 to increase the national educational capacity of the music therapy training.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7222	A total of ten proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left the proposals No 2–4, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left the proposals No 5-7, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 8-10, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 to 10, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to change the financing of hospitals with a view to ensuring that hospitals are mainly financed as a framework.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to reduce the level of input-driven funding, initially to 30 per cent.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose that input-driven funding should not be continued at hospital and clinic level.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7266	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that local management is introduced at the hospitals in More and Romesdal in line with Decision 542 of the Stortinge in the treatment of Innst. [[2015-2016]] 206 S on the National Health and Hospital Plan [[2016–2019]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up the report of the Women’s Country Committee by promoting its own case for the Storting to replace the Health Business Act with a Health Management Act that ensures the popular governance and local management of each hospital.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7290	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that responsibility for and development of ICT infrastructure in healthcare is not outsourced.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7307	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider splitting up Health South-East.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7315	SV shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7327	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that strategic decisions on ICT in the specialist health service are always subject to thorough policy treatment and decisions based on consultation rounds.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the practices of health establishments with informal AD meetings and to ensure formalisation of meetings by introducing requirements for full transparency, documentation and full participation rights for trustees.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7352	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Party of Centers and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a solution in which the current health business model is discontinued in favour of a model in which each health business is delegated care-responsibilities and is directly subject to a national level.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7387	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to instruct all health companies not to cut off the time available for the report at shift shifts, so that we avoid developments similar to those we are now looking at St. Olav, with the resulting patient safety and working conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7414	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a hospital owner’s notification to enable the Storting to provide overall governance signals, values and governance principles for state ownership based on tripartite cooperation.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7431	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking through tripartite cooperation to ensure cooperation and trust between the hospital sector partners.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7464	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-10, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party the proposals No 11 and 12, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate, and require, employment throughout the positions of newly educated midwives in order to ensure that the competence and quality of midwifery are maintained.’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7491	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all women who need, and want, assistance with the establishment of breast-feeding after birth, are assisted by being in maternity care, hospital hotels or other hospital-related services, including adequate maternity follow-up in line with the current guidelines’. The Green Party and the Centre have notified support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7506	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-10, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward to change the funding scheme for the midwife service in the light of an evaluation of the cost scheme for midwives, in order to make it more attractive for municipalities to hire midwives. New funding arrangements must stimulate interaction between primary and specialist health services and decentralised services.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the training capacity of midwives complies with the objectives of the Stortinget for the midwife service.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased use of full-time positions in the municipal midwifery in order to prevent apostasy and ensure the social benefit of the 5-year education skills of midwives.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all pregnant women provide assistance for the establishment of post-natal breast-feeding by implementing the national occupational guidelines for maternity care, including home visits and quality requirements for maternity care, in the services.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward to finance the care of the child so that quality is premiered and that adequate staffing as an emergency offer is ensured.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of the manning situation at the birthplace of the country in order to ensure that the manning is good enough for each woman to actually have access to one-to-one care from the midwife during the active part of the birth.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a basic principle that families, irrespective of their place of residence, should be guaranteed a close and accessible supply of food according to the national quality requirements set for the care of the child.’; Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that hospitalisation is short and not economically conditional. No one shall be printed for an underavailability of the municipal maternity allowance.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national survey of the accompanying services for pregnant women and to ensure that measures are taken to ensure that health care establishments do not provide the necessary emergency services for pregnant women to be taken to the place of birth.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals No. 2, 3 and 5-10 and subsidiary support for proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7568	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure safe maternity care in line with quality requirements for maternity care provided by the national supervisor and to stop the centralisation of food institutions.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7601	During the debate, Mr Kjerkol has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Storting to raise a case on how the school day can be organised in order to achieve at least one hour of physical activity for all pupils every day, through a gradual introduction, funded as a public health measure.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7640	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7668	Case No. 25 concerns the third processing of legal acts and applies to legal acts 128 for 2016–2017 – Law on amendments to the concession law, the law on soils and the law on odels, etc. – with the adopted statement at the Stortinget meeting on Friday 16 June 2017. That is why we are voting on the draft law with the adopted statement from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7680	The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7688	In the case of cases No. 26–36, are the second time dealing with legal acts and relate to legislative acts 136–146. The President shall draw the attention of the President to an incurrence in Legislative Decision 142, where the correct reference to I shall be: [[Customs Act]] ‘Current § 13-4, fifth to sixth paragraphs shall become the sixth to seventh paragraphs.’ Both the setting and the legislative decisions will be printed with the correct text. There are no proposals for comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-06-19.ana.ud466e7878	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
