ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e28	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder County: Lene Langemyr For the Province of Rogaland: Unn Therese Omdal For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne From the Røjres Storingsgruppe there is an application for the granted convocation of the alternate representative of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Bjørn Erik Hollevik from 3 to 6. on April, under the authority of the representative Bjørn Lødemel, shall be extended from 30 March to 6 April. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Three permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Jenny Klinge from 29 March onwards and until further notice from the representative of Mr Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on leave from 30 March to 4 April in order to take part in the election of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Armenia from the Workers' Group on the leave of the representative Jorod Asphjell from 30 March to 4 April to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Tallinn and Stockholm On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Line For Telemark County: Hanne Thürmer For the South-Trundellag County: Ferhat Güven
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e105	Geir Inge Lien is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Breivik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e112	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Pál Farstad, Iselin Nybø, Abid Q. Raja and the signatures, I have the honour to propose a better and fairer tax system for entrepreneurs and individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e117	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e122	I would like to put forward, on behalf of the representatives of the big business, Marit Arnstad, Heidi Greni and myself, a proposal on sectoral legislation for the water and sewerage sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e127	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e143	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Monica Mæland, Vidar Helgesen and Solvency Horne will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Dag Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e152	My question goes to the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen. For many months now, we have had a high-sounding debate about the ever-growing stock of wolf and the government's total paralysis of action in order to bring the population down to the level determined by the Storting. The Council of State review of the pre-Christmas molting decisions of predators is more about political training than about juss. On March 6th, there was a wide media coverage when the Council of State visited people in the village of Slagås in the municipality of Trysil. He expressed understanding of people's concerns and fears and said according to the NRK that he had let himself be colored by the impressions. The wolf is observed in the courtyard of people, and it naturally creates fear. From before we know that the wolf has taken away many livelihoods and the possibility of pasture and livestock farming. The possibility of traditional hunting has been limited, and the population of, among others: elg is significantly reduced. The loads for many are great. The wolves in the plains seem to be very close. Just a few days ago, the same people that the Council of State visited were told that the authorities had said no to trap the Slagås group, which the municipality had applied for. Does the Council of State have any understanding of the situation of the inhabitants of the plaintiff, and will the Council of State take the initiative in killing this flock?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e167	I thank you for the question and for an opportunity to stress that the government is responsible for following up the wolf settlement of Storting. The wolf settlement has made it clear that the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act form the basis of the wolf administration – the Nature Diversity Act, which is also a decision of mass destruction as a responsible government and a responsible state council cannot ignore, the Berne Convention, which is incorporated in Norwegian law by a decision of the Stortinget, a government and a government council responsible, nor can it ignore. I have had the impression not only of the visit to the plain this year, but also of my visit to the Finnskogen last year, of the realities of the wolf zone. I also understood from last year's wolf report that the existence of a wolf zone brings concrete effects on people's lives and people's everyday lives within the wolf zone. I have repeated that several times, also in my statement on the wolf case earlier this year. It was very clear to me also during the visit to Deleteås recently. There is no doubt that traditional ways of life are being affected, people's everyday lives are being affected, but it is also true that we have a starting point in Norway that we are going to have a wolf – that is the broad support of the Stortinget. We have a starting point that there are laws and rules governing the management of wolves, and in those laws and regulations, the starting point is that the killing of wolves is actually forbidden. The exceptions must be justified and there are quite strict requirements as to the nature of the conditions to be met in order for those derogations to enter into force. Those conditions do not exist in the question of the possible collapse of the entire Slotås region.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e176	Since the first report in 1997, Norway has agreed that we should have wolves, but it has been a perception that when one reaches the stock target, a harvest of the surplus will regulate the stock. Now the Council of State refers to what the Storting has decided. That's right. In this respect, the Council of State should also look at the view of the Storting on the importance of what they have adopted, for example. the importance of Section 18(b) of the Nature Diversity Act. It provides space for action to carry out the killings that were the intent of Storting, and – I stress – not to eradicate the wolf, but to manage the wolf. It makes an indelible impression when a person feels that thousands of people make a single claim – that is, that the decision of the Stortinge is to be followed. It's quite historic. Could the Council of State now plan to follow the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e183	I am very concerned about following the Storting decision, and as I said, Storting's decision is also the law on the Natural Diversity Act and also the adoption of the Berne Convention. A law decision in Stortinget is above all other decisions in Stortinget, and we cannot go beyond the law. But what we have proposed, precisely because we are in a dilemma in the wolf zone to get the management decision on stockpiles and the law to relate, is a change in law that will allow a certain administration within the wolf zone. Today, the dilemma is that the claim for damage potential cannot easily be met within the wolf zone, because there are no more sheep on the outback there. With the amendment we have proposed in the Nature Diversity Act, which is firmly anchored in the Berne Convention, there will be some access to some flexibility in the management of the wolf and some access to the killing of the wolf also within the wolf zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e188	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Rune Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e193	In the context of the treatment of the wolf notification in June 2016, the size has underlined that the greatest possible degree of regional management of predatory game is an important principle. It's also about conflict mitigation. The management of the wolf population must strive to create confidence in the population and mitigate the level of conflict. It is now felt that stock targets are being neglected, and that the fear of local communities is being ignored, as the representative Andersen pointed out when it came to the last tribe. Local administration is overrun by bureaucracy. Does the Council of State believe that the failure to implement the decision and will of the Storting in predator policy strengthen the objective of sustainable management of our predators, or does he agree that this weakens the confidence of political authorities, strengthens the reluctance towards wolves in general and thus weakens the objective of sustainable management?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e200	I am very concerned, and the government is very concerned, as demonstrated by the wolf report and the debate in Stortinget, that we must have an objective to bring down the level of conflict, that we must have regional administration that can contribute to it, and that the acceptance of the wolf tribe is increasing by having an administration. So when the regional denominators made their decisions, they weren't afraid of a topic. Fear has come into the debate later, so it is wrong to say that with our decision we ignored the fear of people. Otherwise, according to today's legislation, it takes a lot more to ensure that fear materializes in such a way that it will meet the conditions for killing – I just have to clarify that. However, we are committed to finding solutions, and that is why we have come back – after Stortingen’s order – with a full proposal with a legislative amendment and a thorough review of the legal aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e205	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e210	I have great respect for the people who live close to the wolf. It does something about the quality of life, and on the part of the Christian People's Party, for the last ten to twelve years, we have just said that it affects the quality of life of many people living close to the wolf. The GPS marking that has now been applied to the Slagås wolves shows that the people who live there have wolf tighter on them when it gets darker. Zimmermann, who is one of the researchers behind the report, says to the Nations yesterday that it is difficult to generalise this, whether the wolf has become less cloudy than other wolf flocks, and that it is also not in the current mandate as a result of the GPS marking. My question is whether the Council of State will extend the mandate, so that the knowledge we now have is used for the right things.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e220	I'm very concerned that we have to follow developments closely. That's why we have the radio sign. When more knowledge comes to the table and it turns out that there is a need to extend the mandate and extend the study, both functionally and geographically, I am fully open to it. What radio marking so far shows is in line with what we have already known. When winter comes, the elk pulls down into the lowlands, and the wolf also pulls down into the lowlands. The wolf is an animal that is relatively smart, that goes on broken roads and in ski tracks, for there it is easier to walk than in deep snow. It also means that it is not uncommon for the wolf to enter urban areas, mainly at night. It is more unusual to enter farmyards, but so far there is no evidence of abnormal land use on the part of the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e225	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e230	This is one of the things that makes people – and also parties on the Stortinget – so angry, the changing reasons that are always given. In order to reassure the depositors after Christmas, the Council of State said that one should follow the nearby wolf in order to document abnormal behaviour. And the prime minister even said, in Stortinget, that it is possible to document abnormal behavior, that the wolf is moving closer to people, is within the law to take out individuals. But when the municipality of Trysil is trying to get the wolf out of the plaintiff because they're close to people, the answer is no. Then the rhetoric suddenly changes. When the local population is right about the nearby wolf, the wolf’s movement patterns suddenly get nothing to say anymore. Then it's not important to take out the nearby wolf. Then it has become normal that the wolf is close. Then it has become normal for the wolf to enter built-up areas and over the farm yard. Then there are people who should take care of their food waste, because it is normal that wolves go after food waste. Does the Council not understand that this type of decision, where the reasons change as appropriate, weakens the confidence of the central authorities? And will the Council of State contribute to the removal of individuals from the Latås community by Trysil Municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e240	The government has put forward a proposition with a proposal to change the law just to give something more flexibility and precisely to provide more possible basis for withdrawals than we have today. So that's an initiative we've already taken. Otherwise, it is not difficult to demonstrate that the knowledge that now emerges from radiolabelling harmonizes with the knowledge that has been there in the past. The ability of wolves to approach built-up areas is not abnormal and there are abnormal behaviours that may be necessary for felling. In this image it has been important for us to radio brand, and it will be important for us to follow the radio marking to see if we see over time major, significant changes in the wolf's behavior. So far it's too early to say that there's been such changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e249	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e254	According to Rovdata — the last winter review — there are 38 wolves in Norway. There are 81 to 91 registered so far together with the cross-border flocks. And with the permits that have been granted – if there is nothing new that has happened – it is so far 9 wolves that have been shot during this winter, and it is allowed to 20. It says something about the scale itself. As for the concern that's out there, you have to take it seriously. We also need to find out what is the real basis for concern. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State think to meet this concern while following up the commitments of the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e261	I am concerned, and there has also been the Storting on repeated predatory settlements and wolf settlements, that more knowledge can be an important countermeasure. That is why we have already launched further knowledge-raising measures. Wabakken at the College of the Inland was mentioned earlier. Radiolabelling contributes to more knowledge. We also have other things we're about to assess. Then we follow up the Storting's request decision to assess compensation schemes for municipalities in the wolf zone. We will come back to that in the revised national budget. I also believe that the legal framework we have proposed, which will provide a somewhat broader basis for withdrawals, including within the wolf zone, will show that we have active governance, and will help to bring down the level of conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e268	I agree that it is important to take people's concerns seriously, but I think it is alarming that a former prime minister, who himself participated in the implementation of the Nature Diversity Act, complains that the Council of State Vidar Helgesen does not violate the laws that he himself has been advocating. People in Norway want wolves, and I think it's good that the Council of State thinks it's more important to follow laws than to satisfy the Labour Party's bloodthirst. But the cooperation agreement says very clearly – and that is among other things. a promise to the Left – that you should not change the Nature Diversity Act, including: to take care of the wolf. But now the government has proposed to change the Nature Diversity Act, and then my question is: Is this something that Left has given prior approval to and said ok to? Or is this probably an example of the government overrun the Left in environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e278	The left has had a significant impact on environmental policy. It also gives results, and we'll be able to document that later today in a different context. I am concerned that we have a cooperation agreement with the Left. It must be respected. That is why I have been in dialogue with the Left in the work on the draft law. We had a dialogue before we sent the proposal to the hearing. We had a dialogue before we promoted the proposal to the Stortinget. That dialogue is not finished. It's not that the Left has pre-authorised anything, but we'll continue that dialogue in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e283	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e288	My question goes to the Minister for Children. Kids and pornography don't belong together. Recently, Ulrikke Falch, an actor in the NRK series of shame, openly told me that she began to look at porn as a seven-year-old, and how pornography is the most widely available sex education. She warned us further that we're getting a generation that's raised on porn. Author – and not least father – Tore Renberg also went the other day towards what he calls ‘the pornographic public’. Renberg takes on behalf of children and young people a settlement with the gross Russian songs and industry behind. A comprehensive EU survey suggests that Norwegian children are on the world top in terms of porn consumption. The study shows that 46 pst. by Norwegian children have seen pornography, against 23 pst. average in Europe. A report from the Media Authority of 2016 shows that Norwegian children look at porn earlier than before. According to the Redd Barna report, ‘Youth’s perceptions of rape, gender roles and consent’, pornography has an impact on the sexual behaviour of young people. It shows that young people feel pressured to imitate porno films. Researchers have expressed concern that porn causes young people to be unable to set limits and express what they feel is safe. Does the Minister for Children think it is a problem that Norwegian children look at pornography all the way down into kindergarten age, and what does she do to protect children from pornography?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e302	I thank you for the question. Not only do we have the statistics to which the representative refers, but we also see that Norwegian children and young people have the most access to both new technology and smartphones. It opens up a new reality and a new everyday life for very many children and young people. Downloading and looking at porn is the age limit, and it's limited to what more we can do as authority. That's why I want to underline the importance of parents' role in talking to children and young people about both the Internet and what's out there in the incredible world with the Internet. Today, children and young people have a unique opportunity that our generation did not have, but there are also dangers out there that it is important that parents talk to the children about and teach them well online. Then it is also important that we have an assistive device, and that children and young people have access to information about sexual health. The Minister for Health has presented a youth health strategy. And the bet that the government, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, has had on the school health service, in health centres, where young people get good knowledge of their own sexuality, also makes them better equipped to say clearly no when they get up in situations where they're not safe. It is important that individual children and young people are informed about this and that there are also meeting places where children and young people can take up and discuss this. I would like to stress that very much here is also the responsibility of the parents. The fact that parents have a good knowledge of what's going on on social media, that they have good conversations with their children, that they teach them about sexuality and where the boundaries go, is something we can do with good information, but it's important that parents take that conversation with the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e313	I share that view that it is incredibly important that parents and not least the school can be involved in building up the filters that are needed to make children safe on their own actions and what they do. The UK government has been offensive to protect children from pornography, and former Prime Minister David Cameron called for dialogue with Internet service providers and got them to offer free filters to all consumers, and almost half of the consumers now use this filter. The UK government has now also chosen to look into blocking pornographic sites that do not introduce age control. It turns out that 70 pst. of the visitors are on 50 websites, and age control means an additional obstacle to getting into the pages to click on to see porn. Serious actors like Google and YouTube already have similar mechanisms. It will prevent children who print incorrectly from getting directly into pornography. How are the Councils of State to make stricter demands on the porn industry by imposing such age control, or, for example: looking at this with filters to avoid an involuntary exposure to pornography?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e322	I think it's important that we have a good cooperation with the operators and those out there, which means that we can have barriers to some of these things. I know that the police have good cooperation with the telecommunications operators. It is also important that the police cooperate with other countries if there are anyone who has come further than Norway in this field. So we can draw knowledge from other countries and see if we're going to introduce the same thing. Now I'm not familiar with how far the Minister of Justice has come in cooperation, and if you look at what's going on in England, but at least I know that we are now working with increased knowledge of the Internet through participation in the EU Kids Online Survey. It is also about developing a digital information material on violence and abuse against children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e329	There will be follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e334	I share the Council of State's focus on the fact that we parents have a responsibility. Last week the three-child mother Kjersti Cecilie Jensen was out in the VG, and she wanted the schools to get a porn filter. She says, «As a mother of three, I strongly react to the porn of female hatred, violence and aggression. I don't want young people to be destroyed by the sex picture that porn gives. It affects the expectations you place on each other when entering into sexual relations, as well as the demands on what you are going to join in." So it's a three-child mother who says this. Today, many students have their first meeting with pornography at school. This mother herself has installed a porn filter in her home, but misses the fact that primary school can protect her children from pornography. I wonder if the Council of State, as Minister of Children, is pleased that someone gets their first meeting with pornography through primary school, and how she might want to put in place a filter at primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e344	I'm also concerned that children are exposed to pornography at this young age, and there are age limits for this. But I also have to stress that when parents install such a porn filter, it shows that there are active parents who take hold, that they talk to the children about what is allowed, what is not allowed, and what are the limits. Then it's often up to every single school, I'd say, and to the school owner, who's out in the municipalities. They can discuss this at parent’s meetings, and they can address it if the schools – if it’s a challenge – want to introduce such a filter at primary or secondary school. I also think we should be very aware – we've been parents some and everyone in this room – that things often happen when the children are visiting, or they can be at home with themselves, they're curious, and they're looking online. Then it is important that we take those conversations, so that today young people and children can have a safe everyday life on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e351	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e356	It's obvious that porn is challenging for the council to respond to, because the smile gets stiff, and the answer is relaxed. ‘While school fails, young boys learn that women are people who want them. Get in the back seat or over the desktop.» This wrote the shame actor Ulrikke Falch in the evening post, and several have been involved in her posts in the quiz. We have heard a lot about what the Council of State thinks is the responsibility of others, but we ask because we are wondering what the Council of State is doing with what is actually her responsibility. What we hear from Ulrikke Falch is an expression that today's children and young people want adults to take responsibility and contribute to their safety online, because there are many dangers that lurk – both porn and assault, bullying, fraud, gambling, etc. – which is demanding for the kids to move in. What do state councils want to take initiatives to help children and young people move safely online?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e370	Yes, I am the Minister of Children, but many of the instruments are in the hands of the Minister of Health, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Knowledge. But as Minister of Children, I am also concerned about the children out there, and it is important that the entire government has an intensive effort to protect children and young people where possible. We have many projects on which we support: there are many voluntary teams and organisations that are doing information work. It is important that the school owner provides information, both to parents and to school. There are many schools that today have their own weeks of networking, where they teach their children about the safe use of the Internet, but it is also important that parents of these children have knowledge of social media, knowledge of the Internet, and that they actually take that conversation with the children. That's the age limit on porn today, and so we can't ban everything that we don't like, but we can be there and be a help and support for those kids and young people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e379	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e384	I would like to start by thanking the representative, Roppstad, for raising an important issue. SV is deeply concerned about the increasing sexualisation of childhood. Porn filter to protect kids is important, but we know that rough porn for most people will be few keystrokes away, and that it is perhaps the most crucial filter we can give to our kids, is a critical mindset and security around sex, sexuality and limiting. Openness around sexuality can help combat abuse. That's why SV will give more space to those issues in the lives of children and young people, and that's why we're proposing a better sexuality education, and we're proposing a ten-year school program to combat sexual harassment. And then my question is, what will the Minister for Children and Gender Equality do to give children and young people greater security around sex, body, sexuality and bordering?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e392	It is an increasing sexualization that takes place very early in the lives of children and young people. I'm also happy – I just want to underline it – the work that the police do with the red button, with the filters that they have put in, if people come in on pages that they don't want to get into. So the representative asks what we can do to get children and young people to know about sexuality early, so that they are better rusted. Then I believe that the work done both in kindergarten and in school, and the work done by health nurses and school health services to teach children early on about sexuality, makes them better equipped to say no and put the stops that are important in order not to end up in situations that are not good for children and young people. That is why the government has invested historically – over 1 billion. kr – in health centres and school health services, which will help to strengthen the work being done in municipalities, and that this will be a topic in the field of sexual education at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e401	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e406	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. We're going back to the wolf. It is such that the way in which the government does not follow the decision of the Great Government, and not least the way in which the Council of State interprets and uses the law in the field of wolf policy, has created and created strong reactions. Professor of Public Law Eivind Smith said it quite well during a hearing in Stortinget a few weeks ago: it is not possible to hide the policy by using law in this way. He believes that this is really about the ministry, through varying reasons, refraining from the Greatness's crystal-clear decisions. If that is true, it is almost unreal that a Norwegian government council has so little respect for the majority of the Storting, a majority who have clearly said that the wolf population should be regulated down to between four and six young people. Professional advice from the Environment Directorate suggests that regulating the population down to this target does not pose a risk to the survival of the population, which, as we all know, is the basic criterion of the Berne Convention. So the councils have every urge to comply with Storting's decision. Even the two professors he hired to respond to an order that was carefully adapted to the Ministry's own political agenda say, in fact, that the amendment of the law that the Council of State will now implement is not necessary, it has no significance. Other lawyers say that the Council of State can simply solve this problem by amending the Roof Game Regulation and thereby comply with Storting's decision. Will the government amend the Roofing Game Regulation so that it refers to the whole of Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act and thus helps to comply with Storting’s decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e419	There is no unknown case either for the lawyer Marit Arnstad or for the lawyer Vidar Helgesen that there are often different views among lawyers on questions. We have used the best legal expertise available to a government, too far-reaching reviews of the legal space in this matter, and therefore it is beyond reasonableness to claim that we are hiding politics and a political agenda behind the law. We have no political agenda other than to follow up the wolf settlement of Storting. In this context, it may also be appropriate to recall that there was a central party council that was legally peaced with the wolf in Norway, it was a central party council that introduced the Bern Convention in Norway, and the central party put in government when the nature diversity law was proposed and adopted. It is quite correct that the survival of the population would not be threatened with the decisions of predators, but there are several conditions that must be met, and those are the conditions that have been the basis for us not to accept the extensive killing provided by the predators. In terms of regulation, we're open to change it. There is something the government can do on its own, but it may also be appropriate to await the handling of the bill by the Storting, because the regulation should reflect the changes in the law that may come, and the leadings that the Storting puts in that way. The regulation will not change the legal situation, but it will be a good tool to follow up the Storting decision on the legal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e430	If the simple wish of the Council of State is to follow up the majority of the Greatness, it's hard to understand why he's going to go all these roundabouts around all sorts of things. There are many things that can be corrected, but the change in the nature diversity law that is now proposed believes that the Council of State is an essential thing to change the wolf policy. All the lawyers who were in the Energy and Environment Committee a couple of weeks ago said that the change in the law really doesn't matter, it doesn't do much from time to time. There will not be any more or less wolf of that amendment. You can take it in if that's true, but it doesn't matter. What matters is what the government and the department are actually willing to do. What has emerged from the hearings is that if you change the regulation in such a way that it refers back to the entire section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act, the Stortinge’s decision can actually be fulfilled. My simple question is, Will the government do that? It's so easy to follow the decision of the Big One, and it's easy for the government to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e437	The government is absolutely open to change the regulation, for example: by referring to the whole of Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act. But that does not mean that you can circumvent the content of Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act. A regulation may not infringe the content of the law or disregard the content of the law. This means that conditions lying there, whether there is a potential for harm, that there are no other satisfactory solutions, or – in order to address § 18(c) – there must be overriding societal, health and safety considerations, legal requirements that must be interpreted and applied in the first instance by the regional denominators, if we are above the stock targets, and ultimately by the Minister for Climate and Environment. So we're open to a regulatory change. But that's not a solution to all of the questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e442	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e447	It is clear that the government has problems laying down the whole of Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act. But a slightly different angle: the original Norwegian-Swedish wolf tribe is extinct. Reintroduction of wolves has an unclear and controversial origin. The Berne Convention requires reintroduction. At the Storting hearing last year, it became clear that it is not a genetically peculiar southern Scandinavian wolf tribe, as we do, for example. has in the case of mountain reefs. How the new genetic compound arose, or how the animals came here, is unknown. The nearest answer to this question is, among other things. publications from Uppsala University showing agreement with a material of wolf from central European parts of Russia as well as from Finland. Parts of this material are provided by a person who later appears as a regular wolf breeder. The increase took the following decisions in 2016: ‘The government asks the Government to order a new independent investigation into the genetic origin of the wolf tribe in Norway.’ When will the outcome of this investigation be submitted to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e461	Norway has world-leading competence in the genetics of the wolf. There are few, if any, animals we know more about here in the country than the wolf. In the follow-up to Stortinget’s decision to re-assess the genetics of the wolf, it is a prerequisite in that decision from Stortinget that we cannot then go to the environment that has developed the Norwegian wolf gene map. We have to go to other environments. When that is a prerequisite, we have had to carefully assess the aspects of competition law and tendering by obtaining a new genetic evaluation. It has taken some time, but we have now commissioned the Environment Directorate to obtain a tender to ensure that other environments can test and make a new genetic evaluation. How long such an assessment will take, I do not know, but it may take a long time, for this is thorough and important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e466	Per Rune Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e471	The whole question of wolf policy, as it has been achieved recently, is almost unreal, and the Storting has to press and press again and again to get an impact on what is a broad deal behind it, as many of us consider it. There will be a gambling crime in which the Council of State hides its political agenda behind its interpretation of Section 18. In my opinion, the withdrawal of the Slotås team will be clear within what lies within the will of the Storting, as it emerges from the wolf settlement. Does the Council of State think that it is his job to teach the Stortinge about what the Stortinge actually means in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e479	It has been made clear from last year's biggest report on the wolf that we could get into a situation where – even though we are well above the stock target for the wolf – we will have legal requirements to prevent the killing of individual flocks and to decide on their killing. That's because the terms of the law are clear and do not relate to the stock target. That's why we've been open after my decision in December that we have a challenge to get Storting's administrative goals, Norwegian law and international obligations to relate. We explained this in detail in the proposal we have presented, and the legislative proposal we have presented is an initiative to improve the balance between the management objective and the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e484	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e489	There is no doubt which mammals have received the most attention in this room in the last two months. But when the Council of State says ‘the best legal expertise’, I must at least remember that what the Law Department itself said, the government has now tried. The law department said it could be questionable whether the law of natural diversity should be understood like that or not, but the Berne Convention put an end to Storting's will. But now the government itself has proposed changes to the law on natural diversity, which is now suddenly in line with the Berne Convention, so it is also the government that is slipping in its understanding of the law. But that's not the question. My question is: is the Council of State concerned that this matter has also become a statement that too many in this country have mistrusted the central authorities and their administration of a law that affects people so directly?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e496	Of course I'm worried. I had not worked so much on a proposition for Stortinget and trying to find solutions in this situation if I wasn't worried. I had not said that I am taking in the reality that people experience in the wolf zone, if I was not concerned and engaged in this matter. But I'm engaged in both robbery policy, trying to follow up the decision of the Storting and in the state of law to ensure that as a government we stay within the framework of the law. Although this was not the question, I must be allowed to point out that there is no problem that the Berne Convention is stricter in terms of the damage potential condition, but at the same time has openings in other areas, because the legislative proposal we have presented is a legislative proposal that is independent of the claim for damage potential, so there is no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e503	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e508	These some and eighty wolves, or 38 Norwegian wolves, get a lot of attention. I think it's a little special that the day after Donald Trump rolls back climate legislation and puts the entire Paris agreement into play, the most important question on the Stortinget for both the Center Party and the Workers' Party is how we get to shoot more of a critically threatened species like wolf in Norway. But it may not be so special, there are two parties that are becoming more and more equal in climate and environmental policies. But then to the question itself. That winter has shown us clearly, is that we have a strong law in Norway, both the international agreements we have concluded, the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. An attempt from Stortinget is constantly trying to get the government to break that law. This time, it's the barrage code. I just want a confirmation from the Council of State that you can't order a government to break Norwegian law by amending a rogue regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e515	The purpose of a regulation is to facilitate the implementation of the law. It's that way that law is out of order. It is also the case that a bill from Stortinget is above the request decision taken by Stortinget. It is both clear and clear to the government, and it is the basis for our policy exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e520	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e525	People will take care of the wolf and will have viable strains of wolf in Norway. The wolf is critically threatened in Norwegian nature, so the stock according to the law must be built up, not shot down. We have a Swedish-Norwegian wolf tribe, and the idea of Stortinget was that we should have a joint management of the wolf tribe with Sweden. That would also be the logical thing to do. However, the government set in motion its own race to take care of the Norwegian population due to waiting for clarifications between Sweden and the EU. Those clarifications have well come to a large extent, so my question to the Council of State is: When the Storting is obviously struggling to deal with its own passed law, would it be an idea to re-examine the idea of a common administration with the Swedes of the Swedish-Norwegian wolf tribe?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e530	The government has made several attempts to enter into real dialogue with the Swedes around the management of the wolf, the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe. It hasn't come forward, it hasn't been possible, and it's the basis of the wolf message we launched last year. The situation between Sweden and the EU related to Sweden’s implementation of the Habitats Directive, which is the EU’s implementation of the Berne Convention, is somewhat changing. It is not necessarily the case that a level of permanent calm has been reached in the relationship between Sweden and the EU on this issue. I think, among other things, there are signs that the wolf judgment that occurred in Sweden during the summer of may have led to new discussions between Sweden and the EU. But we are following that development closely, and we are looking forward to ever-increasing attempts at more dialogue with the Swedes about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e535	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e541	We should have liked to have asked questions about the major climate change we are facing. I am also referring to the press conference that is scheduled for later today, because I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Industry. A comprehensive form field is demanding for many enterprises. Reporting obligations are a heavy burden on all Norwegian businesses. Less reporting requirements, increased digitisation and simplified legislation are generally what can help to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. A number of simplification measures have been taken – both under the previous government and under the current government – on which the Left has wholeheartedly supported. But sail if a lot of good has been done, shows surveys, e.g. from Akre, that one in ten establishments experience that it has become simpler, four out of ten believe that the burden is unchanged, while half believe that the regulatory and reporting burden has increased. Many people experience that new rules, registration schemes and fees are emerging. Government parties have promised to reduce the cost of business associated with the use of the rule by 15 billion. kr by 2017. It's a pretty ambitious goal, and it's hard to achieve. Some measures with high potential remain untreated by the government. An example of this is the proposals of the Accounting Act Committee to abandon the annual report requirement for smaller enterprises and to implement limited accounting obligations for small enterprises. Another example is the proposals of the Swedish Stock Exchange Committee to reduce the retention period for company documentation and to amend special rules on the retention of certain types of accounting material. Only the proposals of the Share Law Committee are expected to give an annual savings of 2,5 billion. kr for Norwegian holdings. My question is: can the Minister of Industry assure us that these matters are submitted to the Stortinget, so that it is possible to deal with them before the summer? Question 2: What strategies does the Minister of Industry have to achieve the objective of reducing the cost of the 15-billion-dollar rule bureaucracy? kr by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e552	Thanks to the representative for also allowing me to answer a question in today's Question Time, and in particular to a question related to simplification and to small and medium-sized enterprises. I also want to express my gratitude for the good cooperation we have had with the government on the Left to make important changes. Getting the focus on entrepreneurs and on small and medium-sized enterprises has been very important. By the end of the year, we will have reduced business costs by 15 billion. kr. My goal is – and I have great faith in that – that we will achieve that. Then there's probably a difference between what's going on and what's actually going on. We can't do anything about that. But what we can do is implement the measures that we have on our list. 66 large and small measures have been implemented during this period of government. It's a lot about digitization. Only for the fact that access to small enterprises by the Statistical Centre has been reduced by 40 pst: this is a legal obligation to respond to. The feedback I have received is that there has been a great strain on many small and medium-sized enterprises. However, a number of changes have been made, particularly to the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. So the answer to the question is yes, we aim to promote changes in the Share Act in a very short time, so that the Storting can deal with it during the current growth period. That's a clear goal for us. We now have a list of a number of simplifications. We have a strategy to help us achieve our goal. So it's not like you're in the goal, it's just that the low-hanging fruits are taken out in many ways. It is a demanding work that takes place in many departments. But we've now got the Rules Board in place. They've come to work. Of course, it takes some time to set up a secretariat and advice to do their job, but I have good hope that they will help us not to introduce new laws and regulations that help to restore this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e565	That's good. But e.g. In today's Saturday business there were two sides where it could be read that the tax rate on behalf of the government has proposed that all the country's companies and employers be required to check, report and calculate tax values that each employee has of any discount schemes and award credits in the case of training centres, insurance, pizza, hotels, rental cars, etc., etc. You can get fines and fines if you don't do this. I wasn't allowed to check, President, if it's allowed to call something a real dust proposal, but this is really it. It is a paradox that the government parties in the government platform said that this is precisely what they should simplify, and that more modern and flexible arrangements should be made. Today, in the Left, we promoted a proposal for a representative, which we, among other things, asks the government to scrape this whole proposal, which has been sent at the hearing of the tax administration. My question to the Minister for Industry is: Will the Minister for Industry recommend his party to support this proposal from the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e572	I think I will make it even easier: I would strongly recommend that the Board of Governors go in and look at the consequences of that proposal, because that is what is the purpose of the Board of Governors when this kind of proposal comes. There are many good reasons to do simplifications from the public side, but they put pressure on the private. And then we haven't come that much longer. So there are good reasons why the Board of Regulators is taking on this kind of proposal and investigating the consequences. It gives the government a basis for forming a sense of whether this is a good idea or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e577	There will be follow-up questions – first Pål Farstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e582	There is a need for a review of rules, regulations and laws with the aim of streamlining regulations that have played their part. In this respect, I would particularly like to point out the conversion law as a typical example of a law that has no purpose whatsoever other than unnecessary bureaucracy. I will also refer to the British system of one-in, two-out. The scheme is intended to reduce existing schemes and regulations accordingly where public authorities impose new regulations on business that result in increased costs – a savings of GBP 2 for each pound in increased costs. One input and question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State, as part of a power of simplification for Norwegian business, take the initiative to abolish unnecessary legislation such as the law on conversion and introduce a similar system as the UK in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e591	I feel that this is a job that has been going on since we joined. It is a job that was started at the end of the last government period. Part of the job consists of trying to clean up the laws and regulations. That is why we have had a number of suggestions to – I had just said – scraps, in good Norwegian, some laws and regulations. But the funny thing is that laws that nobody thinks we need are suddenly needed when we propose to remove them. An example of this is the serving law. It was a proposal to remove the serving law because the conditions to which it is subject are governed by other laws and regulations. It's been very difficult. Suddenly, someone, the Municipality of Oslo and others, experience that this is very useful to have, and then you get a debate related to ensuring what we're going to do about reporting, security, etc., versus making simplifications. This is a demanding job, but my clear goal is to get on with simplification for 15 billion. the savings for business at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e600	Else May Bottom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e605	I am pleased that both the Left and the State Council share the Workers' Party's commitment that it will be easy to do business in Norway. About a year ago, on April 23, we could read in the Evening Post: «Half the government's showcasing list are red-green measures» One of the most important simplifications we did was to make it easier to start a company, among other things. by lowering the capital requirement from NOK 100000 to NOK 30000. However, simplification needs to be balanced against serious work, and the Swedish Stock Corporation has proposed to lower the claim to NOK 1. The vast majority of the hearing bodies warn against this, and Ecocrim has also strongly warned. My question is: Who will the Council of State listen to in this case – Økokrim or the Committee on Share Law?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e612	It's always a balance, it's a good idea to carry out simplifications that actually work. All parts of the life of a limited liability company are digitised under this government. It contributes to strong simplifications, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. I meet people who say they have established a company in two hours a Sunday afternoon. That's how we want it to be. It has to be serious, it has to be proper, and it has to be verifiable. I believe that the Swedish Stock Corporation has done a very, very good job, they have many exciting suggestions. We have had the proposals at the hearing, and we submit our recommendation to Stortinget with the first. One of the most controversial issues has been to lower the share capital to NOK 1. I think there's a lot of good reasons to do that, because it's not through the share capital we regulate a company. But this proposal has received a great deal of resistance, so there will be an exciting debate in Stortinget. The government will not follow the Stock Law Committee at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e619	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e625	I have to say it's wonderful to listen to the Left Latherer Center Party and the Labour Party's commitment to people's security and the fight against wolves instead of American climate policy, while a cosy question about simplification is open all the way inside. In the reply, the Council of State has referred to the performance project of the Council of Ministers, this idea of a reduction in red tape by the appointment of a number of bureaucrats in a council to ensure that the distribution instructions are followed. Very many times the given red light gets very many times. It's hard to see what the consequences are. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State give one example of a matter that has been simplified, or a distortion that has been stopped because of the work of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e634	It is true that the head of the Business Committee, the representative of Pollestad, has a great deal of commitment to the Board of Regulators. Now there are not a lot of bureaucrats employed. This is a very good example of state jobs outside Oslo, because we are using all of Norway. I'm glad. When the Board of Regulators now gets their job done, we will see the results of their work. There will always be proposals from various departments and departments, regardless of who is in the government. The task of the Board of Governors is not to stop proposals, but to review the proposals and tell them about the consequences, so that you can be aware of them. It's a work I think we're going to see the results of. We haven't seen it yet, but we're going to see it when they get to do their job. It just takes a little bit of time after you set up an institution, until the results come.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e643	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e648	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. We are at least concerned with the climate, and Norway is a great place in the world because of our efforts to combat the felling of rainforests. The government claims that they are busy stopping deforestation, and Norway spends about 3 billion. kr a year to stop such deforestation, deforestation to accommodate heavy palm oil plantations. The increased use of palm oil leads to increased deforestation, so it is important to reduce the use of palm oil. So to the point: the NRK and the Evening Post have revealed that palm oil is massive in the biofuel that people and businesses in Norway have bought to be more environmentally friendly. Norway should be the country that only used the best biofuel, which has a guaranteed climate effect, and which is guaranteed not to lead to rainforest. But so far, Environment Minister Vidar Helgesen has not lifted a finger to get palm oil away from our biofuels, even though he knows it's serious. Therefore, I do not address the question to Vidar Helgesen, but I would rather ask a minister who I hope is more effective. The Minister of Economic Affairs will clarify these days the environmental requirements to be met by the State and the municipalities when making purchases. A large proportion of the biofuels purchased go to ferries, postal cars, home-aided cars, air transport, fast boats and public transport services. Nevertheless, Minister of Industry Monica Meland does not impose any requirement for the biofuel to be used to be palm oil-free. Therefore, I ask: after the last revelations – will the Minister of Industry ensure that all public procurement of goods and services requires that the biofuels used are palm oil-free?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e659	Thank you for the question. I was in a hurry for a moment about where this was going to end. What I can answer is that we want to ensure that all public procurement, when made by municipalities, county or state, should focus on the environment – the environment should be part of the assessment theme. We do not go in and determine which components of e.g. Fuel municipalities need to focus, but we need to focus on the environment. This is something that can also be verified by KOFA, the complaint subject of public acquisitions, so that you can verify that you have complied with the laws and regulations that apply. It is true that an investigation is being carried out because we have received a request proposal relating to 30 pst. weighting, promoted by the Left. Of course, we should answer that request. But the important thing now is that we have put in place a regulation where the environment and apprentices are the only two shell rules in a regulation that we have actually tried to simplify. It's not very easy to take care of a lot of good and important considerations. We are now working on disseminating knowledge about the new legislation. It's probably the most important thing when we know that we have 428 municipalities, 19 counties and a large state that everyone should be able to handle this code.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e670	Thanks for the answer, but this just shows how important it is that the Minister of Industry is ‘hands on’ in what kind of demands it is. The proposal sent by the government to consult on the need to weigh the environment by at least 30 pst. in all public procurement, the more biofuels an operator puts up to use, the better they will be in competition for public tenders. And to top it off, all that time palm oil is the cheapest fuel on the market, it will be that the more palm oil-based biofuels you use, the better you get out, unless the Minister of Industry says clearly that palm oil-based biofuels are not actually going to be available in public procurement, because the environment is both climate and taking care of the rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e675	I just have to be very clear that the main objective of the government with the new regulation has been to make simplifications. We've had what many have perceived to be a monster of a code, very difficult to practice and difficult to verify. So people are more afraid to follow the process than what they actually do. I think we've come very far. The environment is now a shell rule, and it is not that I am going to go in and dictate the types of elements in a purchase to be made by individual purchasers. It shall be based on the needs and objectives of the procurement. But I'm going to be careful that the environment should be focused. It's completely new in this code.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e680	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e685	Preventing rainforest is not the only environmental requirement of the Stortinget that the government has dropped. The majority decided on 1 December 2015 that the government should ensure that all public ferry and passenger boat offers were based on low- and zero-emission technologies. The yards along our coast are ready to build elves, vacant hands are looking for unresolved tasks. But the government fails by failing to follow up the decision of the Great Government. Now it's almost two years of high unemployment, with high emissions. The Advent season has been a long one since December 1, 2015. My question is: is the Minister for Industry going to follow the Storting decision and make demands for all ferry and passenger boat offers to be based on low- and zero-emission technology? And when is that going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e690	It's not like this was something Stortinget invented. This is what the maritime strategy, presented by the government, by the Minister of Finance and myself in May 2015, states that we should apply low- and zero-emission technologies whenever possible. It forms the basis for government policy in the maritime field. I totally disagree with the premises put on the question. The government has had an active maritime policy specifically linked to green shipping. We have also launched our own grants to move goods from road to sea, we have a separate package linked to the fact that the county councils, who are the ones collecting the tenders, can receive grants to obtain more environment and sustainability in their tenders, and we have introduced our own mastering and loan scheme to scrap ships and build new ones. So we've tried to contribute to a greener shipping. But of course that work isn't done, that's something we're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e697	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e703	I think my question goes to the climate minister, because it is directed towards what was the theme of the main question from SV, namely the use of palm oil in biofuels. The debate on biofuels sometimes hears as if biofuels are an objective in themselves. Of course it isn't. It's a goal to bring down the emissions. But then we have to know that the biofuels we use actually get the emissions down and that they are produced in a sustainable way. The best way to know that what is produced is to produce it yourself. Sweden and Finland have come much further into having their own production than we have here in Norway. My question to the Minister for Climate Change is therefore: What action will the Council of State take to ensure that we get more production of sustainable biofuels here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e712	The most important thing for business in making decisions about start-ups and heavy investment in sometimes new and untested technology is that from a political point of view, we have framework conditions that are predictable and that we are going to run that point forward more than from year to year, but over time. That is why we have placed great emphasis on establishing a biofuel escalation plan, where we are increasing the requirement for blending biofuels and also increasing the demand for the second generation sustainable biofuels. We have received good feedback from the business community, including the forestry industry, that the long term we are now working on is welcome and something other than diesel pushing and forward and backward policies, which we have seen enough examples of this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e717	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e722	The aim of the policy is to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels as quickly as possible, where biofuels are an important transitional arrangement for passenger cars, but subsequently also to focus on heavy transport, shipping and air transport. As the needs grow, we have to make sure that that biofuel gets better and better quality. This does not mean that there is also no sustainable palm oil, but the volume of what is consumed is a problem. However, active policies must be pursued both to improve sustainability criteria and to underpin sectoral agreements. We have a lot of people going away from palm oil, but we also have to look at the possibilities for a faster introduction of what is high-grade biofuels, where we are now making demands for the first time. Then the question is: does the Council of State realize that with the development we have, it is possible to get an even faster escalation of high-grade biofuels?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e729	It is, of course, a prerequisite for the tightening-up plan to be laid down. That means it's going to be consulted, and that means we're going to get input from the industry about the prospects of the market. The budgetary agreement also shows that we must closely monitor price and market developments and also assess the availability of fuel. I think that with the predictability we're putting up for both the stepping up of biofuels and a clear message that climate policy is going to get tighter in the years to come, the market will know that sustainable biofuels are the future. At the same time, we are working to strengthen European legislation here, to strengthen the EU's sustainability criteria, and that is what is really important, because this is not just a Norwegian market, it is a European market, and it is a European legislation that underpins what is traded in Norway. So I think yes, we're going to see more production of sustainable biofuels. But I agree that this is in the long run a transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e736	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e741	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. We have had some demanding years in the Norwegian economy. Unemployment has been higher than 20 years, and very few new jobs are created in the private sector. Maritime nutrition has been incredibly important for the nation of Norway. We have the whole value chain, a lot of jobs, and a lot of values are created in the industry. Shipping is an international industry, but that does not mean that we cannot work to ensure good pay and working conditions for those who are going to sea. Yesterday, we met in this room on the legalisation of the net pay scheme. It was an important step and hopefully the end of the visa for the Right Competence Model, which would actually lead to many thousands of seafarers falling outside this scheme. But we do not agree on everything, and the willingness to ensure good pay and working conditions is not equally distributed in this room. On the ferries between Oslo and Copenhagen, Bergen, Stavanger and Hirtshals and the rest of the foreign routes between the Scandinavian countries, it has been the rule that Scandinavian wage and working conditions apply. In the proposal for the NIS regulation, which has now been consulted, the Council of State has proposed to amend it. With small grips, the routes will be able to flag NIS and replace parts of the crew with cheaper, foreign labour. This has caused great concern, not only in Norway, but also in our neighbouring country. The Danes and the Swedes have begun to react and act, and not least politicians have begun to ask questions to their governments. What worries me is that the government that we have in Norway does not seem to want to listen to this turmoil. Why will the Council of State be faced with poorer pay and working conditions in the Nordic region? Is this a wild policy, or has the Council of State just done one too bad job?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e756	The question is quite surprising, considering all the times I have answered the representative for exactly this. In the Sundvolden Declaration, this government was very clear that we need to strengthen Norwegian maritime nutrition, Norwegian seafarers. It is an industry that employs more than 110 000 people and is important for Norway. We announced that we would set up a range of ships, we announced that we would legislate the net pay system, and we announced that we would make changes that would help to have more ships flagged home, that several Norwegian seafarers were secured. So we put down a paired sample. What's funny about this debate is that in all other contexts, the Workers' Party is engaged in tripartite cooperation, but it's not a maritime industry; there's bipartite cooperation. The representative is probably well aware that we were given a recommendation from the party sample in January 2015. We promoted a maritime strategy in May 2015. And we implement loyally: we have strengthened the net pay system, we have expanded the net pay system, yesterday we passed the net pay system. This was something the Workers' Party became very much for when they came into opposition, but so they didn't lift a finger to get carried out for eight years in position. So far the concern extends to the maritime industry. So one of the recommendations from the sample, this shattered the compromise, was to also change the traffic rules. That's what we've been trying to do. We did not have the wording that the Speed Committee used, and we have therefore proposed a different wording for exactly the same purpose. So I said yesterday – and I can repeat it today – that if that's how our recommendation produces unintended effects, we're going to do something about it. We have one motive, and that's to follow up the party sample. The working party now argues to scrap it and listen to one party and not the other. I am concerned with sustainable maritime framework conditions in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e767	The Council of State refers to the Speed Committee, but many of the participants in that sample show that the assumptions have changed significantly since agreement was reached. This applies, inter alia, to: the so-called ‘competition disadvantage’ against Denmark. An overall employee side believes that this would have led to entirely different conclusions now. It is also heard from the employer’s side, for NHO Seafart writes in its hearing opinion that ‘it has not been stated that the range committee would have concluded in the same way if these premises were given’ — as they are today. There is a challenging climate for cooperation between the parties, yes, but in Norway we try to seek tripartite solutions together, and the state plays an important role. Therefore, my question, when the changes are as they are today, is why the Council of State may not be able to re-convene the Speed Committee, look at this situation and find solutions that will be good for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e774	I can reassure the representative that last week I met with the parties in the Maritime Committee, those who were represented there, together with the Minister for Fisheries, and that was just to discuss the difficult situation we see in parts of the maritime industry, and to invite them to be recorded on that occasion. We also discussed the Speed range selection setting. It is true that the employee side has changed. That's absolutely right, but it's not right that there's been dramatic changes. It is that the net pay scheme has improved, but it was actually part of the Speed Committee's position that it should, so it was part of the calculation back in 2015. There's one thing that's changed, it was both sides agreed on, and that's the currency situation. But I'm very surprised if the representative now argues that we should have a maritime policy based on currency speculation, in the next few years. We just can't have it like that. We must have framework conditions, we must have predictability, which means that we achieve what we want, namely to ensure maritime nutrition, secure Norwegian seafarers further.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e783	Odd Omland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e789	This is not the only issue that concerns challenges for good pay and working conditions in Norwegian waters. We've been to it before. The government shares the Workers' Party's ambition for a big bet on the ocean floor. But it's a crucial difference. For our part, this means creating safe jobs, with decent pay and working conditions, while the government seems to want to leave the market raw. Even the Conservative colleague of the Council of State in the United Kingdom sees the need for new regulations. On 30 January we read in The Telegraph that Minister Hayes has launched an investigation into pay and working conditions in the UK. What does the Council know that her British colleague does not know?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e796	I have discovered that the Workers' Party has also discovered the oat room after the government launched its sea strategy in May last year. That strategy was also delivered in February, and is an important strategy to take out the enormous potential of everything on, in and below the sea surface, and we are a port over some. I'm not going to answer for the British authorities, but an investigation had to be justified because we need knowledge. We don't, we do. This question has been investigated for decades, so we have knowledge. The question is, is this something we want to implement? Is this something the Labour Party wants to implement? I'm loyal to the party sample. Unlike the Workers' Party, I respect the tripartite cooperation. That means we're doing what the Speed Committee recommended. This point was discussed, it was not on the list of recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e803	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e808	Up to 1,000 people are about to lose their jobs in Color Line. The Minister of Industry is surprised that this will be a topic in Question Time. I'm surprised that the Minister of Industry is surprised, because this is a very serious issue, and what is being asked is that the Maritime Region Selection can be reassembled, re-assessed, and conclude that either is one of those things you have said before, or that there is a need for an adjustment, is quite little controversial. It has been a while. Tripartite cooperation is a continuous work, not one done once per day. So my question is, what is the Council of State afraid of asking the Speed Committee to reconsider this?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e815	I'm not surprised at the topic, but I'm surprised that questions are asked that you know the answer to because you play a political game. Because that's what this is all about. This could be asked when we received the Standing Committee's position in January 2015, or at least when we presented the government's maritime strategy in 2015. You didn't. You sat still because everyone was sitting perfectly still. This was a shattered compromise. We're now trying loyally to follow it up. So it's like this, and I repeat, I had a meeting with the parties in the Speed Committee last week. There is deep disagreement about the understanding of the changes in the area of navigation. It is agreed that the Committee of the Regions recommended it, and there is a disagreement as to whether the situation has changed today. That is, it is agreed that the currency situation has changed. It doesn't help us set up a new range of oceans. We can't have a policy based on the currency situation in the next few years. Nor is there any consensus on the issue of Norwegian pay and working conditions. There is deep disagreement as to whether this will contribute to weakening or securing Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e822	The maritime cluster and the maritime industry in Norway are the shortage. It consists of both the people who are out there, those who operate and organize it all, and the yard industry, who deliver to the maritime cluster. One of the things that emerged most clearly from, among other things. The Green Competitiveness Expert Committee was clearly informed that the public had to use its purchasing power to demand green technology and green solutions, because in this way the yard industry would have a green competitive advantage. The Commission therefore decided on 1 December 2015: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that all county and local ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new offers and for self-reliance routes.’ It's about government acquisitions. The Green Competitiveness Expert Committee said that it is now time for the government to follow up on this. Why has not the Minister of Industry, in its changes to public procurement regulations, called for all counties and municipalities to use zero and low-emission technologies?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e836	The point the representative refers to from Stortinget in December 2015 was launched by the Minister of Finance and me in May 2015. Already in the maritime strategy we said that such demands should be made whenever possible. Then we've done what we could to contribute to a greener shipping. One is to change the rules of government acquisition, where the environment is to be focused, but it is not that we go in and decide what kind of technology and what content it should be in fuel. Then we had to do it on all kinds of public procurement – all had to be detailed. The whole main purpose of the new regulation has been to simplify, so we have now launched a grant scheme to enable the counties to demand green technology. We have contributed to it through a green shipping programme, and we contribute to it by actively training in the new legislation. But we do not go into the legislation and discuss boats, cars, coffee and soft cakes. There is legislation that applies to everyone – the whole public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e845	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e859	There will be a number of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative of Øystein Langholm Hansen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed. Question 7, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Integration, who will direct him. Question 8, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Finance, who will direct him. At the request of the Council of State, the question is proposed to be moved and answered in response to question 5 to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Christian Thinning Bjørnø and Marianne Aasen, respectively, of the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge who has left. Question 17, from the representative Anette Trettebergstuen of the Minister of Culture, will be addressed by the representative of Arild Grande. At the request of the Council of State, the question is proposed to be moved and answered before question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e887	‘After a decline in income inequality, measured by the so-called Gini coefficient, under the Stoltenberg II government, the disparities increase sharply after the accession of the Right Party Government. The fasitator of four budgets is that the richest country gets 160 times more in tax cuts than the 94 percent with the lowest wealth gets on average. Does the Council of State consider it worrying that income disparities are so greatly increasing with today’s government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e894	Let me first say that Marianne Marthinsen's presentation of the facts is crooked. The income inequality has not increased strongly with this government. In fact, over the last decades there has been a rather moderate trend towards increased income inequalities. This trend was also active during the Stoltenberg II government. The main picture is that differences over the last few decades have not increased much in Norway. In addition, our revenues are more evenly distributed than in most other countries. The leap made by the measured Gini coefficient in 2015 is not due to a sharp increase in the differences, but to adjustments to changes in the dividend tax. Dividends doubled from 2014 to 2015 because the tax rate on dividends was set up from 2016. Nor is it new that the date of withdrawal of dividends is very sensitive to changes in the tax system. The same happened in both 2000 and 2005 as a result of increased dividend taxes. Funds were deducted from companies as dividends to save taxes. After that, new equity was reintroduced into the companies. Such a shift of income back and forth between the company and the personal owner does not, of course, affect the real differences in income. However, it turns out in the Gini coefficient, where dividends to personal owners are included in income, but income earned in companies does not. What affects inequality is complex. We see that driving forces that are moving towards increasing differences in other countries, such as globalisation and technological development, are also to some extent active in Norway. In addition, high levels of immigration have shifted towards increased income differences. Changes in the tax system, on the other hand, play little role in explaining the trend of increasing inequality in recent decades, and the government’s tax relief has benefited broad groups. While the Gini coefficient increased by 29 pst. from 1986 to 2015, the government’s tax policy has barely affected the Gini coefficient. Tax changes have only contributed to an increase of an estimated 0.8 pst. for the four-year period 2014-2017. Let me also remind you that the main contribution of the tax system to redistribution is, in any case, financing broad and good welfare services and income guarantee schemes. We have a publicly funded school, we have a well-developed public health system, and we have income protection for those who are out of work. The direct redistribution through progressiveness of the tax system means significantly less. Let me also remind the representative that Norway is one of the countries of the world with the lowest inequality, and the government is working to preserve that image in the future. That is why we have prioritised the large amount of money for well-being and security in everyday life for people – to knowledge in school, to a better path and path, to a strengthened community economy and to a secure social security network.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e909	Thank you to the Minister of Finance for your answer. Now she spends a lot of time and energy telling Stortinget that tax policy really doesn't have anything to say about the evolution of inequality, but if we're going to do history, it's the fact that income inequality went down somewhat while the Stoltenberg II government was operating, and that the 2006 tax reform was an important explanation of that. We have received analyses that confirm this. Of course, tax policy matters and the profile of the government's tax cuts over this period contribute directly to an increase in income disparities and differences in wealth. Then of course there are several factors that are in play here, and no one denies either. If we go into the inequalities, it's that we have more on persistent low incomes, that we have more young people disabled, and that social background means more about how young men now get on with life, which is what really contributes to concern. I would simply like to ask the Minister of Finance what she thinks is the main reason why we see such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e922	I didn't say that tax policy doesn't matter. I believe that tax policy means a lot to the competitiveness of Norwegian business, but it also means that we have tax-funded welfare schemes in Norway. And that's what I tried to find in my answer, that's that the biggest and most important way we redistribute in Norway to ensure that everyone participates in our welfare systems is through the redistribution of the tax system. So of course it means something. The claim of the representative Marthinsen is that the government's tax relief has resulted in a huge impact on the Gini coefficient. That's not right. I believe that we should be proud of as a country that, in a situation where differences are increasing quite a lot in many other countries in the world, we have a clear – across different political parties – to maintain a broad consensus that we should reduce differences and keep them as low as possible. We did quite well with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e929	When we look at the Gini coefficient and how it has evolved over the last few years, there's a marked increase over the last few years that it's hard to explain. And then it's not just tax policy that matters because of how it develops – of course it's not – what I'm saying is that tax policy has a direct effect, crowns for crowns, on how income differences and wealth differences develop in Norway. That's what the Minister of Finance is trying to talk away from. When the Workers' Party is concerned with inequality and raises inequality into the Questionnaire, it's not just a thought of solidarity or a thought of fair distribution. It is also about ensuring our long-term competitiveness and our ability to adapt, because we believe that investing widely in the population is more effective than concentrating wealth at the top. Does the Minister of Finance agree? Is she then concerned that the trend towards increased inequality may weaken our ability to adapt and our competitiveness in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e938	I believe that Marianne Marthinsen takes a completely wrong starting point when we discuss this. We agree, I think, across all the political parties in Norway, that low inequality is a strength for Norway. We have received commendation and recognition, most recently, last week, in the OECD's new growth report, which points out that differences in Norway are much lower than in many other comparable countries. They also point to the importance of continuing to implement many of the reforms initiated by the government, including the tax reform. So I agree that we have to be concerned about both competitiveness and conversion, but then we have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at once. One of the reasons the government has been concerned with reducing corporate taxes and wealth taxes is to increase the competitiveness of our business. There is the key to creating more jobs in the long term. If we create more jobs, more people come to work, and we ensure the well-being of the individual. That must also be the goal when we see it in an inequality perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e948	‘The Minister of Finance went out in the Evening Post before the 2013 elections and defended increased differences. ‘It is no public task to settle differences due to the fact that some serve more, inherit more and own more than others’, said Siv Jensen, according to the newspaper. The Council of State has changed its attitude to increased differences, as she has clearly made to the rule of action that she is now pressing to her breast, and the fees that she has now increased by 4 billion. crowns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e955	The government is working for Norway to be a country with small differences. We want wealth growth to benefit everyone. We have done well in Norway. The differences in income are among the lowest, and the standard of living is among the highest. Poor living conditions in growth and poor access to education and healthcare can create differences in the chances of success. The type of difference can also be propagated over generations by the legacy of living conditions problems and low educational attainment. Low income due to difficult family background, illness and other conditions that cannot be affected by the individual is unfair. Norway therefore has an extensive welfare offer that contributes to income protection for those outside, a good school for everyone and a well-developed public health system. The main distinction is between those inside and those outside the labour market. Getting the most involved in the labour market is essential to avoid greater differences in the years to come. In particular, it is important that people with low education, poor Norwegian knowledge, health challenges or other challenges are given a foothold as far as possible in their working life. The qualification for participation in the labour market is therefore crucial and requires good quality in the education and training system. Then it's less important that someone has high incomes. Efforts, work and willingness to take risks in the start-up of new enterprises and jobs shall pay off. Return prospects are an important driver of new investment, new ideas and development, and therefore also of economic growth. Different efforts and different risk-taking also, of course, give some inequality. There must be room for Norway to continue to have a high level of wealth growth. There were several claims in the question from the representative Hagebakken that I think are crazy. It is the case that the Workers' Party has for a very long time criticized the government for spending too much oil money, and now he accuses me of pressing the rule of action to my chest. What I've been saying all along is that it's important that we practice it flexibly and adapt the use of money to the actual economic situation we have from one year to the next. So this government has reduced taxes and taxes by 21 billion in total. kr. It's in stark contrast to the Workers' Party's promise to tighten the taxes in the next
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e970	Low inequality is an advantage for Norway, said the Minister of Finance. Then why go the other way? I hear what Siv Jensen says, but her government and she do something else. The government often tries to create the impression that the richest ones have to get more into tax cuts as long as they pay the most taxes, but when you look at distribution tables of the country's taxpayers by wealth, we see that the richer you are, the more tax cuts you get with this government also in percent. So why is the Minister of Finance so keen to give the country's richest the biggest tax cuts not only in dollars but also in percent?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e975	I don't know how many times we're going to have the discussion about the need to reduce taxes to Norwegian business to strengthen the competitiveness of our business. This is also the crucial prerequisite for our success in the transition that the Norwegian economy is about to undergo. This means that there are people out there in Norwegian society who have to take risks and invest their own money – or borrowed money for that matter – because they think they have a good business idea, which can also lead to them employing more people. Therefore, it has been important for this government to reduce both property taxes and corporate taxes – because it strengthens the competitiveness of those who are to invest in Norwegian business. At the same time, we have spent more money on reducing taxes for ordinary people, and an average family has received a tax relief during this period of NOK 8 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e980	The fiscal policy referred to here by the Council of State gives, when you look at all the statistics, very little new jobs. It primarily provides the richest more in the bank account, while the government has increased the maximum price in kindergartens, removed free health care for chronically ill, injured, multi-disabled, etc. I have to ask the Council of State: must it be impossible to call this anything but unsocial? It must be clear that there are significant increases in differences? So once again, when the low inequality is important, as the council says, why go in the totally opposite direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e985	I totally disagree with all the allegations made by the representative Hagebakken. It must be possible to do more things at the same time in a situation where we are going to create more jobs and facilitate more people who do not have work today. Then someone has to create those jobs. It is neither the representative of Hagebakken nor I who do, it is the wise people out in Norwegian society who dare to do, by betting their money on a good business idea or developing the businesses that are already there. It's important, it's important. I don't understand the resistance of the Workers' Party. Why should we tax Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies harder than non-resident owners of Norwegian companies? I don't understand. It's one of the main reasons why the government wants to reduce taxes on wealth. In addition to doing so, we have used most of the space available during this period, not to reduce taxes and taxes, but to ensure the well-being of the police budgets, to strengthen the community economy, to strengthen health budgets, to strengthen the transport budget – to mention some important areas – and not least research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1001	In our government period, jobs have been created every year, despite the most severe oil price fall of 30 years. Our main goal is to make sure that as much as possible has a job to do. The unemployment rate measured by the Labour Force Survey, AKU, is high, but it has also fallen in the last two months. It is positive that unemployment goes down, but for those who are still out of work, and for their families, the situation is demanding. We have put in place a number of measures to reduce unemployment, in particular in the South and Western countries. Again: Norway is a country with small differences. There's something that I think we're broadly in agreement about, at least the government is concerned about preserving it. But how an increase in unemployment affects inequality also depends on who becomes available. Economic research shows that increased unemployment tends to result in increased disparities. That's because a lot of unemployment usually comes from low pay. When their income is even lower compared to the rest of the population, the distribution of income is also increasing. On the other hand, if you have a situation where unemployment increases most among those who make a lot of money, the result may be the opposite. When many who have had high incomes compared to the rest of the population have reduced their income, this contributes to a reduction in inequality. The rise in unemployment that we have had in Norway in recent years has particularly occurred in petroleum-related industries, and many high wages in these industries have lost their jobs. Thus, the rise in unemployment may have helped to reduce the inequality rather than increase it. The compositional effects pointed to by the Technical Calculation Committee in last year's low wage growth, where the total wage growth was low because many high wages from the oil industry had to find new jobs with lower wages could suggest this. Trends internationally that contribute to increasing inequality are also active in Norway – I have said that in the past in this questionnaire. However, it has not been reported that the rise in unemployment in recent years has contributed to a strengthening of the trend. It actually shows that the question from Tvedt Solberg is searched. What we need to focus on now is to transform the economy, facilitate the creation of more jobs in the private sector, and that those who lose their jobs quickly get a new one. The government works regardless of the fact that Norway remains a country with small differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1020	I'm a little uncertain about what the Minister of Finance is saying that the question was sought, it's at least very serious. In the past, a lot of praise was received from the OECD. Record labour is now out of the labour force, and in this area it is not to be commended for the decline in employment in recent years. The proportion of the non-working population in 2016 was the highest in more than 20 years — one third of the population is out of work. It is quite right that unemployment has stabilised and declined slightly, but the serious thing is that several of those who are now disappearing from unemployment statistics can be found again in social security statistics. In Rogaland, there are now more people on redundancy payments than a year ago. More people receive sick pay. Several young people are in social assistance. Overall, employment is falling. This is alarming and in all ways a development in the wrong direction. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance: is she satisfied that the government's policy of meeting the high unemployment now has led to more people in social security and social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1027	What I am very pleased with is that the consequences of the severe oil price fall, which has definitely influenced the Norwegian economy strongly and contributed to the fact that we have had almost 50,000 fewer employees in that industry, have nevertheless been met with employment growth, mostly in the private sector, but also in the public sector, and contributed to the employment of more than the number of jobs we have lost. Then we see a situation where it's now shining, the arrows are pointing in the right direction, the time off is coming down, the growth of the economy is on its way up. I understand that the Workers' Party feels that it is a little uncomfortable at the entrance to a election campaign, but the Workers' Party should be pleased that the policy now seems to be working – that unemployment is on the way down. Then I agree that we need to do even more because those who are still out of work come into work, and that we need to facilitate that those who have been outside the labour market for a long time, because of different challenges, also get a way into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1036	I think it's here from the Oslo pot one can say unilaterally that the situation in the West is shining. It is not the experience of people living in the West. The high unemployment rate is actually a little bit new for us Westerners. Rogaland has always been the lowest unemployment, now you have the highest, and long-term unemployment continues to rise. In January alone, there were more than 4,000 unemployed in Stavanger. It's the first time in history after World War II that the number of unemployed has passed 4,000. It's not jubilant, it shouldn't be a finance minister's pleasure. That's what's alarming; I feel that the government is here and satisfied with its efforts to now, where unemployment is allowed to stick to a record high level and minimal changes in statistics are applauded. The only answer you give locally to the unemployed is that you have to move to other regions. Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the invitation to leave young people in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1041	Here there are so many wild claims that I just don't have time to bring them all down. It is not that you have the Oslo perspective on the situation in the West. I and many members of the government have met systematically and regularly with different parts of business and affected both in Stavanger and in the rest of the South and West, which have been hit most by the oil price drop. We've taken it very seriously. That is why we have launched packages of measures to mitigate the most serious situation in the short term, and therefore we are making it easier to convert in the longer term. So no, I'm not satisfied. I am not satisfied until unemployment has come down, until we have got even more work to do. What I'm satisfied with is that development is now moving in the right direction, and the Workers' Party should at least use a little bit of energy to rejoice over, they too, instead of continuing to blackpaint the situation, which is now actually about to shine. It also shows reports from the Western region itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1057	This government is pursuing a policy that promotes more jobs, better well-being and a safe everyday life. It is a policy that benefits everyone. The oil and gas sector will not increase growth in the Norwegian economy to the same extent in the years ahead as in the years that we have behind us. Although the sector remains important, more jobs need to be created in other knowledge-intensive industries. That conversion must now take place. In order to safeguard jobs and strengthen the competitiveness of business, it is necessary to reduce the level of taxation. Then businesses can create new values. The continued high level of wealth growth in Norway requires an economic policy that facilitates conversion, innovation and further development. Therefore, the Right and Advance Party in government have used the space for action in areas that increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy – tax reductions, infrastructure investments and knowledge. These priorities are crucial in the future. If we are to succeed in creating new jobs and increasing growth, we need to strengthen private business. It is absolutely vital for Norway if we are to get out of these demanding transitions we are in the middle of. It is also important and crucial for the sustainability of the welfare systems of the future. When we focus on transport, innovation, research and education, we reduce business transport costs, we strengthen innovation, and we increase the competence of the whole population. In this way, we improve the basis of tomorrow's jobs, and we create growth. We have reduced taxes and taxes and followed up the tax reform in line with the agreement in Stortinget. It means lower taxes on enterprises, making it more profitable to add production to Norway, and that means lower taxes for most people. Of the total space for action during this four-year period, 13 have pst. tax relief. Most of the space for action has thus gone to transport, knowledge, local economy and a safe social safety network. The government is pursuing a strong policy of putting out of work and creating new profitable jobs, both in the short and long term. That's how we secure Norway for the future. Of course, the financial policy arrangements come back to us in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1078	This was a dedicated article on how to create more jobs. The question was how Jensen will give priority to possible tax cuts, whether she agrees with Prime Minister Solberg, because we have seen – as many people have had – that the tax cuts that have been given have had the result, with the cut in the property tax, that 94 pst. averages of the population are about $10 a day cut, while Norway’s 1,600 richest people, a club with over 100 million. kr in fortune, has got a tax cut of almost $1,600 day, 160 times more. It's Norway's super-rich, it's the ones that have later earned the most on this government and their tax cuts. The question is, does the party leader of people seem most presumptuous that there is a good way to continue, as Prime Minister Solberg has warned?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1085	I believe it is right to reduce the overall level of taxation in Norway, and that has been done by the government during this period. We have given relief to ordinary people, we have removed a number of unfortunate charges, not least the inheritance fee, and we have also found room to make reliefs in the property tax because it discriminates against foreign and Norwegian owners of businesses in Norway. I think that this touching commitment by the representative of Wickholm regarding how little or how much tax relief each has received under this government is in stark contrast to his own promise to increase the taxes for everyone with 15 billion. kr in the next period. That picture may look even worse, a little depending on who the Workers' Party is going to work with in the next period: with SV, which will introduce housing taxes, or with the Environmental Party of Greens, which will increase fuel taxes by $5 a litre overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1092	The inheritance fee had already been removed for ordinary people. What Siv Jensen did was remove it for the super-rich. But there too she has her priorities. I see that people with an annual income of between 400,000 and 450 000 kroner, as the Progress Party has previously referred to as the people most, have received a tax cut of around 3000 kroner. At the same time, kindergartens are now almost 400 kroner more expensive per month, there have never been any more toll stations, electricity charges have increased, and fuel prices have increased. The question is just: are ordinary people really getting better out of this, as Siv Jensen claims, or is the result of her policy that ordinary people are now paying the bill so that they can get the most big tax cuts from Erna Solberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1099	The fact that the government has removed the inheritance fee, and that after a few years the Workers' Party came to the realization that they would not reintroduce it, is a sign that it was a poorly arranged fee, as the Workers' Party has afterwards realised that they do not want to reintroduce it. But if we are to listen to the representative of Wickholm, it may mean that he believes it should be introduced in a different form. I was at least a little uncertain as I now heard his reasoning about the inheritance fee, for now he attached the reliefs of the inheritance fee or the loss of it only to the super-rich ones. But he will not reintroduce it either. That it has certain unfortunate biases, so at least we, and that was one of the reasons why we went to the elections to remove it. Now we've done it. But we have in addition to reducing taxes and taxes by 21 billion. kr spent a much larger amount to strengthen well-being in Norway. We have reduced the share of tolls in several projects, we have increased infrastructure investments many times more than the Workers' Party was able to when they set up government, and we have secured many other important welfare schemes and reduced health cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1109	«Threatful repeated questions from the Storting will not be disclosed by the government to the real share of the economic space used for tax cuts. However, there is no doubt that there is a significant part, nor is there any doubt that these tax cuts have mainly contributed to increased budget deficits and increased disparities, nor to increased employment which was the government's justification. The country's wealthiest has grown richer, but beyond that, the effects have been absent. Will the Council of State now admit errors and reverse them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1116	The government has actively used fiscal policy to stimulate work, activity and change. This has been necessary at a time when the Norwegian economy has experienced the most severe oil price drop in 30 years. This policy, which has been pursued by the government, is well in line with recommendations from the OECD, the IMF and most professional economists. We have prioritised a strong effort to create more jobs in Norway and prevent unemployment from breaking down. This is important if we are to avoid increasing economic differences in Norway in the future. At the same time, government policies respond to the long-term challenges we face. The Norwegian economy has to be converted. Our main challenge is to facilitate growth and employment in the private, competitive sector. Tax relief and a better-designed tax system are an important part of structural measures to achieve this. Important measures have been lower corporate tax rates and lower taxes on labour, but also reduced taxes on wealth. The government has combined reduced taxes and taxes by 21 billion. kr. It should be profitable to work and it should be attractive to create jobs in Norway. The Labour Party has made it clear that they will increase taxes by 15 billion. kr. That bill sends the Workers' Party to ordinary people and to Norwegian businesses. At a time when Norwegian enterprises, especially in the south and west, are facing demanding times, it is not right to place the tax bill on Norwegian jobs. However, the bulk of the economic space in the four-year period 2014-2017 has been used in areas other than taxation. About 87 pst. The action space has been used for other purposes – we have strengthened the hospital economy to reduce health cows, record-breaking teachers receive continuing training, we build more roads and railways, and the maintenance run goes down for the first time in decades. About 23 pst. action space has been used for growth-promoting efforts such as knowledge and transport. About 13 pst. is spent on tax reductions — which also generate growth in the economy. During this period, the government has strengthened the welfare systems and our social security network. At the same time, we are able to reduce taxes in order to pay off both working and creating in Norway. To the claim that I should admit errors and change the course: I have many times before orientated the Stortinget about how the government has spent the big money, and I have repeated and repeated that we have spent more of the action space on things other than tax reductions. Now it might be time for the Workers' Party to record it down, so that we don't get any more misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1137	The party in opposition budgeted with so-called dynamic effects of tax cuts. The theory was that when companies pay less taxes, more jobs can be created, and when most people get tax breaks, they work more and pay more taxes, which weigh up the tax cuts. ‘Tax corrections have a certain degree of self-financing’, wrote the Progress Party in one of the most recent budgets of the opposition. In the government, the Minister of Finance says that there is no basis for budgeting with such dynamic effects. As the Minister of Finance said in his previous reply, the Minister of Finance and the Government believe that they can nevertheless claim that tax cuts have such effects. But since it is difficult to quantify, on what basis can the Minister of Finance claim it?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1144	Because we have past experience of this. We have implemented tax reforms in Norway before, which have given dynamic effects, in the sense that there is a significant degree of self-financing in tax reductions, and that has thus shown us past forms of tax reform. The Scheel Committee, which was the basis for the tax reform now adopted by the Stortinget, also estimated that there could be considerable dynamic effects in implementing tax relief. I thought the Workers' Party would also enjoy it. After all, the Labour Party has joined parts, at least, of the reductions proposed by the government, not least in relation to corporate tax. If that means creating more jobs and, in turn, more tax revenues that we can use for well-being and distribution, that must be good. That is why I do not understand why the Workers' Party believes it is a problem that tax cuts would then have to produce dynamic effects. We know from historical experience that there are dynamic effects in reducing taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1149	Nevertheless, the government platform of the Right and the Advance Party states that the government will ‘examine the dynamic effects of tax relief’. So, as I said before, it has not been possible for the government to quantify the so-called dynamic effects in any of the budgets. Nor in the budget of the year is it possible to quantify the dynamic effects. It states that it may take time for the dynamic effects of the government’s proposals to be demonstrated and therefore cannot be budgeted for in 2017. I can't see that the government has investigated the dynamic effects of tax relief other than that they say it's an ongoing process. Then my question is: will we, in the last budget of this government, get these effects numerically fixed, or will there be a recognition that tax cuts created no more jobs, but only increased differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1157	I expect it was a delay from the representative that she meant the next budget and not the last budget. But that's what they said.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1161	We've been dealing with this issue in our own right. It was an essential part of the Scheel Committee when they presented proposals for tax reform. There were also investigations related to dynamic effects, and in addition, as I said in my previous answer, we have empirical evidence from previously implemented tax reforms, but that is so that tax reductions and dynamic effects have no retroactive effect. The reliefs and effects will come in time in the future. If tax cuts to Norwegian business lead to – as I believe it is going to do – more jobs over time, new investments that generate growth, and which in turn generate new revenues to the state, then we have an increased space of action that we can look forward to in order to secure the welfare systems. I expect the Labour Party to agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1164	So we go to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1172	This question, from Odd Omland to the Minister of Industry, will be answered by the Minister of Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1177	‘Work for all is the best medicine for increasing differences. The government is nearing the end of its period and has spent over 20 billion dollars. Treasury bills, according to themselves, to promote growth and conversion. The result is that the differences are increasing, the employment rate is record low, and in the evening post on 16 February, the Governor said, 'The transitions are still ahead of us'. Does the Governor agree with the Governor and is she satisfied with what the Community has left for the tax cuts?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1184	The fact that the Norwegian economy is facing a period of change is something that this government has repeatedly underlined. Increasing demand for goods and services from the oil sector has been an important driver of economic growth in Norway for many years. We've known for a long time that this development would reverse. The fall in the oil price helped to speed this up and reinforced a development we knew would come. So the petroleum activity will no longer be the same engine for the Norwegian economy as it has been. Demand from the sector as a share of total value added in mainland Norway is expected to decline further in the years ahead. Although the growth of the economy is on the rise, Norway needs to change over the years to come. Less dredging from the oil industry is a lasting structural change. At the same time, statistical central agency has estimated that employment in petroleum-related jobs has fallen by about 50 000 since 2013. However, employment, overall, has increased during this period. Calculations by the Ministry of Finance show that there have been about 60,000 more employed in other jobs in the private sector. In addition, 26 000 are in the public sector. This shows that the government’s policy on growth and change is working and that the process of transition is well under way. The economic policy pursued by this government consists of both targeted cyclical measures to remedy the short-term situation and the necessary structural measures to facilitate migration and higher productivity, which I have also previously responded to. These structural measures are about meeting the long-term challenges we face. Then we have to make sure that someone dares to invest in new, profitable private jobs out there. Therefore, reducing taxes and making a better-designed tax system a significant part of the structural measures that the government has focused on. We have chosen to spend more of the space for action on infrastructure investment, on research and knowledge, on strengthening the health economy and the hospital economy. That's where the big money has gone. But you have to be able to do several things at the same time, also to make our tax system competitive. But the Labour Party's answer in such a difficult situation as the Norwegian economy and many companies are now in the middle of, is to send a tax bill in the next 15 billion period. kr. It is an incredibly poor response to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1199	It is especially important to hear that the Minister of Finance uses the figure of 60,000. What we know is that most of these jobs came in 2014, and in 2016, employment in the private sector fell well, and then it is also important that we understand the reality of the policy we are pursuing. To the Evening Post in May 2015, the Minister of Finance said that the unemployment has now reached the top, and since then the unemployment has set new records, and it has stuck. And again: According to Norway’s Bank’s figures, the few new jobs created in 2014 and 2016 will be in the public sector or in construction, among others. driven by a low interest rate and high housing construction. Does the Council of State feel that it is a transition that works?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1206	I do not understand why the representative of Omland thinks it is ‘special’ that I refer to the number 60,000. That's a right number. Thus, 60,000 new jobs have been created in parts of the private sector other than the oil sector, while nearly 50,000 have been lost in the oil industry. In addition to the 60 000 in the private sector, 26 000 have also come in the public sector. It's about teachers, nurses, policemen, to mention some important areas that we've also gone to elections to strengthen. Then comes the claim that there are constantly new records in the development of unemployment, and that it has stuck to a high level. We now see that unemployment is gradually falling, that growth in the economy is gradually on the move, and all the reports we receive — from different parts of Norwegian business, including from the South and Western regions — indicate that optimism is on the way back, and that the willingness to take new investment is growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1213	It is not surprising that the growth in employment has been the greatest in the public sector, and the government continues to insist that the policies they pursue work. But instead of investing in industries where we have a special advantage to succeed, the government chooses general tax cuts, mostly for those that have the most of them. And the government has also cut or proposed cutting industry-specific bets – in forestry, fisheries, space and regional development funds. When almost no jobs are created, even if I hear what the Minister of Finance says, how can it be a policy that works?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1218	Here again there are many crazy claims from the representative of Omland. The largest growth in employment has not been in the public sector but in private. But it has also come into the public sector, and that is a question of policy. This government has gone to the elections to get more policemen in the streets. We'll do that. Employment in the public sector then rises. We've strengthened the hospitals' economy. Then employment goes up. We have strengthened the finances of the municipalities. Then employment goes up. That's crazy politics. We strengthen the continuing training of teachers, and we add more teachers to Norwegian school. But from there to say that we have not facilitated growth in other industries where Norway has taken advantage, is not correct. That's one of the reasons why we've reduced taxes, that's one of the reasons why we've strengthened tools. And saying that we have special challenges in today's fishing industry is wrong. We're still setting new export records, and we're going to laugh.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1225	Then we go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1233	This question, from the representative of Anette Trettebergstien to the Minister of Culture, will be raised by the representative of Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1238	I have a question for the Minister of Culture: ‘The increase in inequality that we have seen under the Right Party regime also appears on the football field. TV 2 has highlighted the fact that many children and young people have to stop football because it is too expensive. The clubs have a responsibility to include everyone, but the policy can also facilitate that the clubs have an economy that allows them to have low training fees. Why does the Council of State not want to give priority to spending money on sports facilities, as she herself called for when she was in opposition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1247	I share the representative's concern. Children and young people shall be able to participate in sport and physical activity regardless of background, place of residence and economy. The government prioritises sport. We have strengthened sports arrangements over several years and provide good framework conditions, so that activity offers can be created where the threshold for participation is low, across the country, so that all children and young people can be involved. Inclusion in sport, the local teams and associations grant scheme – the LAM scheme, which we politicians call it – and the National Child Poverty Grant Scheme are examples of schemes that this government has strengthened significantly in the last year. The VAT compensation scheme and the increase in grassroots percentage are examples of how the framework conditions have been strengthened. The representative of Grande only raises the question of the cost of a question of money for sports facilities. I think that'll be a little too simple. Sports facilities have had a high priority with the government since we took over almost four years ago. In 2016, it was distributed 1.2 billion. kr for construction of installations. The government has increased the allocation to sports facilities in the municipalities by more than 450 million. kr since 2013. As a result of the large allocations, the average waiting time for the grant of grants has decreased during that period, during that government. Football facilities received 270 million. kr in the prize money grant in 2016 and is now the second largest beneficiary of the prize money. But despite the government's prioritisation of sports facilities, unfortunately, the cost of participating in sports is increasing. So this isn't just about money, it's not just about what the state is doing, it's also about priorities and attitudes in sports. I feel that the sport locally is doing a great job of bringing with me especially those who are not so well-fed. They're doing outreach work, they're doing what they can, and I want to praise the sport for that. On the other hand, I am a little more in the mood that the Workers' Party only points to state arrangements to bring everyone in the sports family, rather than looking at what parents can do, what trainers can do, what sports laws can do, and what happens locally. In order for everyone to be able to participate, they need to work continuously. Then I don't think the answer is just calling for more state. Voluntary activities and the surrounding local sports are the most important contribution for all children and young people to be able to engage in activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1262	Yes, that's right, what the Minister of Culture says, that sport does what they can, with the means at their disposal. I think they expect us in this house, too, to do what we can to set up sports, to set up for the big ambitions you have locally, to develop new facilities, to set up so that more people can be included in local volunteering. The Council of State is very kind about what the government has done in terms of installations, but it is the money of others that the Council of State has put up with. It is not the Council of State itself that has taken that responsibility. It's a system that's beyond the control of the state councils. I would refer to what Linda C. Hofstad Helleland himself wrote, very well, really, when she was in opposition: if politicians are to continue to demand that sport strengthen cohesion and community in society, sport must have a stable economic framework. It's about what the council itself is doing. But she has not lifted a finger after she took over, and she has actually had the opportunity to do anything about it. Why has the Minister of Culture not followed the promises made by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1273	That's not right, what the representative Grande claims here. We've increased the funds for sports, we've increased the funds for facilities by over 450 million. kr since 2013. So the investment in installations has increased during this government. I think the representative of Grande must also remember that this money comes from somewhere. We give priority to spending money on installations and sports. This house could also give priority to spending this money on other good measures in society. Norwegian sport received over 3 billion. kr last year, both from the budget and from the budget, over 3 billion. NOK – there is a lot of money. Then I think that we politicians are wise to say that even sport itself must do what they can to facilitate that as much as possible participate in activity, and not just do as the Workers' Party: shout at Nav, yell at the state, shout at more politics, as if it were the only answer to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1282	That's not what we're doing, but it's about facilitating that sport itself can do that sport has ambitions about. There are many communities and many fires that stand at night and day for this to be successful, but the number of plants is about to fall behind. 2 billion. kr, and it must be the responsibility of the Council of State, because it is at the Council of State. So the question is what the sports teams themselves can do to keep the price level down. In this regard, the so-called Fjørtoft Committee has given good advice. And that's something we can do on the Storting's side, the sports framework. In the draft programme for the national meeting, the Workers' Party has been involved in working on schemes for the free lending of equipment and the use of facilities, as proposed by the Fjørtoft Committee. It would not solve the whole problem either, but it would make it much easier for the clubs to keep the training fees at an affordable level. Is the Minister of Culture willing to look at and support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Fjørtoft Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1291	The briefing of the representative of Grande has reduced the waiting time for grants during this period. It benefits the facilities. This is actually the first government that has taken money from bureaucracy, from administration and from sports systems and distributed it to children and young people. The Workers' Party did not do that when they had the Minister of Sports for eight years. Then sports bureaucracy was greatly strengthened, while we distribute, because activity in the layers is the most important thing for us. And we're going to give 14.5 million. SEK to the scheme Inclusion in sports teams, 178 million. kr goes to the National Disability Grant Scheme, SEK 315 million. kr goes to the local team for sports and physical activity for children and young people. So when the Workers' Party tries to present it as if the government doesn't do anything for children and young people to have the opportunity to participate in sports, it's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1300	Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1308	This question, from the representative of Øystein Langholm Hansen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1313	‘In Norway, the housing market is characterised by the ownership of eight out of ten owner-occupied dwellings. With the strong growth we have seen in housing prices in recent years, the situation on the housing market can lead to greater differences between those outside and those inside the housing market. The government has made it more difficult for young people to borrow from the House Bank, cut into the House Bank's loan framework and tightened up their equity requirements. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the housing market does not create greater differences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1320	One of the most important things we can do for young people entering the housing market is to help increase the supply of housing by building faster and cheaper. With simpler planning and building processes and more appropriate technical requirements, we can facilitate increased housing construction, especially in the areas where housing prices are highest. Among other things, we have relief from technical requirements for the smallest apartments, which are typically initially established as purchasers. According to OBOS, these can now be built several hundred thousand dollars more reasonably. The government has also contributed to raising the threshold of objections, which helps to build more dwellings where the municipalities want them to. We now see the results of the government's housing policy, and there are now several dwellings being built. Statistics Central Bureau reported earlier this year that municipalities in Norway granted start-up permits for a total of 36,203 new dwellings in 2016. It's the highest number of residential buildings since 1982. Growth seems to continue this year. According to the SSB, in the first two months of 2017, municipalities granted start-up permits to 5,670 new dwellings, up to 14 pst. from the same period last year. Øystein Langholm Hansen also refers to the equity requirement. At the end of the year, the Ministry of Finance adopted a new housing loan regulation, in which the equity requirement was kept unchanged at 15 p.m. I understand, of course, that people in the establishment phase can see this as strict. For several years, however, housing prices and household debt have grown faster than income. This has led to liabilities of households as a share of disposable income rising to a level we have not seen before. If we have a setback in the Norwegian economy, housing prices and the high level of debt can help to reinforce this setback. There's a situation none of us are worthy of, at least the young. The Equity Requirement is an important contribution to mitigate that risk. At the same time, we have retained flexibility in the regulation. Up to 10 pst. the volume of loans granted per quarter may be loans that do not meet the regulatory requirements – 8 pst. in Oslo. This flexibility provides, inter alia: the ability of first-time good-manageers to enter the housing market even if they lack some of the equity initially required by the regulation. Figures from the SSB also show that young people own housing to an increasing extent. In 2015, 42 psts were owned. by persons aged 25 to 30 years owner-occupied. This proportion has been rising steadily for several years; in 2004 it was 34 pst. in this age group owning owner-occupied dwellings. In the new Housing Loan Regulation, we have also tightened the requirement for equity for the purchase of secondary housing in Oslo, from 15 to 40 p.m. We have just done this to dampen the price pressure in the capital and lower the threshold for those who are trying to enter the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1341	I thank you for the answer, a supplementary answer with a lot of numbers. The Minister refers to the increase in the requirement for equity of secondary dwellings, which has been raised to 40 pst. This allows them to speculate with a lot of capital in secondary dwellings, and it is possible that it has a good impact on housing prices. But will the government look at the increased taxation of secondary dwellings, so that the profitability of speculation goes down – for these are speculations – to limit such speculation from capitalists, i.e. those who have the most from before?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1348	I probably don't want to put all these purchases under the heading ‘speculations’, as the representative does. Parenting, for example. Buying an apartment for their children when they're studying, I don't want to call it speculation. But it's true that we don't want it to buy more dwellings that an investment object has to attend and drive housing prices up sharply. It is one of the reasons for this equity requirement, but it is also one of the reasons why the government has made just changes to the tax regime in this area as well. In addition, through the Start-up Loan Facility of the House Bank, we have helped to ensure that people with long-term housing problems can obtain and maintain their own housing. In 2016, municipalities granted start-up loans to 6,945 dwellings. And not least, this government has also extended the BSU scheme, so that more young people are given the opportunity to save on their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1355	This is how the Minister explains the equity requirement, and this is an obstacle to entering the housing market. The Health Minister himself comes from Rogaland, from Randaberg, and there he has had great success with rental-for-self projects. The right now decided at the last national meeting that they would be in favour of such solutions. Why have such schemes not been introduced at national level in the past, because this is a system that is successful in individual projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1360	Right in Randaberg came forward and established the rent-for-estate scheme, and the Right is in favour of the scheme. It is established within today's system, so I see no reason why no more municipalities should do what my municipality has done. It is a good way to ensure that persons with low equity also have the opportunity to enter the housing market. I think what's important is to help just young people get into the housing market early and get the opportunity to establish themselves. That's what we see is a development which, fortunately, has become stronger during this government. Several young people now own their own home, and that's positive. But as I said, we have a large range of instruments to help keep what is the Norwegian model, that most people own their own home and have it as a very important security in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1369	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Integration, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1374	It's nice to meet Per Sandberg as Deputy Minister of Integration here today. I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In the process of Innst by Stortingen. 16 S before Christmas, the government rejected a proposal that the government should start negotiations with the Municipality of Oslo to extend the Oslo South bet, which expires in 2017. [[2016-2017]] However, according to Nordstrandsblad on 15 March, the Højres national meeting decided to ‘continue the area operations’. In order for this to happen without first dismantling the bet, it is important that the government informs you that you will continue and initiate a common planning process. Can the Council of States confirm that this will happen and, where appropriate, when?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1383	After all, the Oslo South bet action programme is not an unknown program. It was established in 2007 with municipal funds, and in 2008 a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Municipality of Oslo and the State. It is an important and wise programme. A lot of good has come out of this program and this bet. It shows evaluations and reports that have come along in this respect. Obviously, this goes into what the government is very concerned about, that you want to avoid to a great extent that groups or people stay on the outside of society, and that you build parallel societies. We all want us to have a society where most people are involved in the world of work, and that the big community helps to maintain a society of high trust. The Oslo South bet is, as I said, a cooperation between the state and the municipality, directly against strengthening the living conditions of the town of Søndre Nordstrand. The background is a 2006 note showing that several of the areas needed additional efforts. The Søndre Nordstrand Urban Committee took the initiative to make a special effort in the south of Oslo, in view of the fact that the district had many of the same living conditions challenges as the Oslo inner east and the Groruddalen. The State and the Municipality of Oslo have cooperated on this initiative over the last ten years, and nearly 180 million have been allocated. kr. The main objective has been to enhance integration and inclusion and to improve public health and address housing challenges in the urban district. It is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is responsible for this, but it is the Directorate of Integration and Diversity that coordinates the efforts of the state. Looking forward now, and looking into 2018, means that there will have to be a budgetary issue in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1396	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where I notice the most important thing, that the Council of State is in favour of the initiative. The same was stated by the representative of the Progress Party in a debate on the budget for this year in the Grand Duchy before Christmas. The important thing is that if the investment is to develop in 2018, after it has expired in 2017, and develops for a longer period again, for example: For ten more years, you can't just bring money in the last little, in what is granted in December or else here in the Stortinget. For example, in August 2015 – it expired in 2016 – a Groruddals bet was made in order to have time to plan and to develop a good strategy for how to use the funds. What I want to ask the Council of State is: if you're going to make a plan and make an agreement with the Municipality of Oslo and the city that commits, shouldn't there be a signal, start a process, before the actual money in the state budget comes? The two things don't have to exclude each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1405	It is quite right – as the representative of Bøhler points out – that if you are to bet on this further from 2018, you must have a dialogue. I assume that the ministry, the state, has a dialogue with Oslo to further build this cooperative body towards 2018. But then one must also have a broader evaluation. Sørdre Nordstrand has evolved violently from 1970 until now. Today, almost 40,000 people live in the district. We also see the results of the cooperation projects that have been, and I must be allowed to say – I myself have family living there: it is developing to become an amazing residential area. You might get new challenges coming up. Then you have to have a dialogue and a cooperation and see if you have an intention agreement that goes from 2018. But the budgetary question may lie primarily in the August Conference of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1414	I thank you for your answer and for your continued positive attitude. What is important is that – to refer again to the Groruddals bet – a further investment agreement was signed in August 2015, while the funds for the further investment from 2017 came into the budget in the autumn of 2016. Then there was no obstacle for the state to talk to the municipality and enter into an agreement about the intentions, about where you wanted to go. And then you came back to the budget. That is why I would strongly urge the Council of State and the Government – as the Council of State was about to do – to have a dialogue with the municipality and the city now, so that you can understand the intentions and start working with drafts of an agreement, draft targets for the bet, so that you can prepare. We agree that the budgetary resources will come into the government budget for the autumn, but I believe that the preparations should be able to start without having the budgetary resources in place, as has been done with the second area effort I mentioned. I would like to ask the Council of State if he is positive that it is necessary to initiate discussions about an extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1425	Yes, absolutely, and so did I. If you have intentions for a continuation of the bet in Søndre Nordstrand into 2018 and beyond, I do not think you can do that year after year. You have to have an agreement at the bottom, which draws it a little bit further. When you start this kind of conversation between the state and Oslo, you have to evaluate and look at what you've gotten out of the 180 million. kr already granted in the project. It may be that there are other areas to be invested in in the future, such as kindergartens, for example. Now, the core time in kindergarten has become a state system; it was part of this cooperation project earlier. So there are things that are taken out, but maybe there can be new ones that show up in terms of living environment and bet areas in the neighborhood. But – as the representative Bøhler also says – it requires that you sit down and at least start talking. Then, of course, I cannot – and the representative Bøhler knows very well – promise some money in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1434	Question 8 was addressed in response to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1442	This is an old feeling. The question is about oil firing: ‘The size has decided that all heating of barley should be fossil-free. The government has not followed up by sending a proposal, which does not include fossil gas, and which opens up the possibility for oil to be used in commercial buildings and district heating. Now the trade unions have given their hearings. Will the Council of State now follow up on the decision of the Grand Duchy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1451	It is gratifying that Norway now, I am familiar with, is among the very first countries in the world to adopt a ban on fossil oil firing. The transition from oil firing to renewable heating is a socio-economically good climate action with good climate impact. It is also a broad political consensus on climate action. The phase-out of oil firing is one of the measures that will help us achieve the 2030 climate objectives. On 12 October 2016, the Ministry of Climate and Environment sent out to the public a proposal for a regulation prohibiting the use of mineral oil for the heating of buildings. The hearing note contained one proposal with and one without exception for peak loads in professional buildings. The Ministry has now received consultations from a number of universities and stakeholders, and the Directorate for the Environment has examined the impact of the two proposals and made its recommendations. The government is now evaluating the hearings and, on the basis of this, will draw up a final regulation. I have noticed that a large majority of the hearing bodies support a ban. The government is aiming at the adoption of a final regulation on the ban on oil firing this year, following notification to ESA, and this is a work we give high priority to. The prohibition will cover the use of fossil oil for the heating of buildings, in line with the two request decisions taken by the Stortinget. Of course, I have noted that in June 2016 the Energy and Environment Committee stated that the ban should cover peak loads. At the same time, the size has requested that the prohibition and phasing-out be designed with the necessary exceptions in order to ensure security of supply. The government has been committed to clarify and carefully assess the consequences of a ban and therefore asked for input into two alternative regulations: with and without exception for peak loads in professional buildings. In the hearing, it has been suggested that the ban should be extended, inter alia. to cover all fossil heating, including natural gas. The aim must be heating based on renewable energy rather than fossil energy. It is important that, when oil firing is to be replaced, it is renewable solutions and not natural gas put into service. Through Enova, the government is precisely doing this by providing private individuals with support from Enova for investment and the installation of renewable heating solutions. I remember otherwise that the Building Technical Regulation already prohibits the installation of heating solutions based on all fossil fuels for new buildings and other mandatory measures under the Planning and Building Act. If we are to extend the ban to all uses of natural gas, we need to have good knowledge of the consequences. The government will continue to work to get an overview of the extent of the use of natural gas and the consequences of any phase-out. In district heat production, there is the potential to phase out fossil oil. The size has asked the government to come back with proposals for instruments to phase fossil oil into district heating and make district heating as resource efficient as possible. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy for the follow-up of. In the hearing on the ban on fossil oil firing, we asked for input into the consequences of such a ban, and we asked for input into other possible instruments. We are now assessing these and will come back in connection with the state budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1468	Nice. It is possible that I interpret the Council of State too far, but I perceive that he here and now puts to death the discussion we have constantly had about peak loads, the use of oil for heating construction. Now, both the Environment Directorate and the NVE have said that it is quite possible to prohibit, and I hope that discussion is dead. At least he wasn't irritating after arguing very hard for it. I have more follow-up questions. In March 2015, the Storting asked the Council of State to phase out fossil oil also in district heating, and in 2016 the Stortinget asked for fossil gas to be included in the ban on fossil heating. The NVE, the Energy Directorate, recommends that gas be banned for heating even now. They also recommend including the district heating in the ban already now. So my question is simple and straightforward: is the Council of State now going to follow up the decision of the Storting in line with the recommendations of the professional authorities in the field of energy, or does the Storting have to put up with more postponements and rematches? It was a little bit in his answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1475	Now it has been quite a long time, since the climate agreement, for oil fires to be phased out in 2020. Putting such a ban in place this year can hardly be called a postponement. In the case of natural gas heating, there is no doubt about the target either. We do have public instruments to help make renewable solutions available and not natural gas. But if we are to extend the ban on oil firing to natural gas, we need more knowledge about the consequences. As I said, we will continue to work towards a better understanding of both the extent of the use of natural gas and the consequences of any phase-out. It'll hardly come in time for the ban on fossil oil, but that's something we're actively working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1482	This is problematic, because if we do not include gas in the ban on fossil warming from the very first moment, we risk – as the Council of State was now in it – that some consumers switch the source of heating from fossil fuel oil to fossil gas, and then meet a ban on fossil gas shortly after. It is one of the things that has been warned about in the hearings, and then the question is: if you choose to do it in the two-stage rocket mode that it sounds like to me that the Council of State is now putting up with – first to ban fuel oil, and then to have some money left to support if you choose to go directly to renewables, but do not decide whether to also totally prohibit fossil heating in existing building masses – then you really risk fooling people, and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1487	State Council Helgesen might have got a question?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1492	I saw that as a question. I just have to stress that I have no intention of tricking neither big business representatives nor most people. The consideration that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås here mentions is an entirely relevant and important consideration that needs to be taken into consideration. It's hardly wise to go from oil firing to using natural gas when replacing firing solutions, so that's an important consideration that we include in our assessment. However, it is also necessary to consider other considerations and to gain better knowledge about the consequences of any phase-out, and that is why I am not sure whether we can bring natural gas in a ban at this stage. But that's something we have to evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1500	‘When the Stortinget examined the Central Party’s proposal for the content labelling of alcoholic beverages, the Government and the Left wrote in the statement that the content labelling of alcohol is very positive, but that they would await the report of the European Commission, as stated. Inner. [[2014-2015]] 164 S on the subject. This report has now arrived and it is possible for Norway to introduce its own labelling requirements that go beyond EU minimum standards. Will the Council of State now start this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1507	I am pleased that the European Commission has finally presented the report on compulsory labelling of alcoholic beverages with a list of ingredients and a nutrition declaration. I would first like to point out that the Food Information Regulation does not lay down minimum requirements, but imposes harmonised requirements on the labelling of foodstuffs, including alcoholic beverages. It is therefore not up to each country to grant national branding rules. In the report, the European Commission shows that there has been a significant development in the alcohol industry. While the industry was previously opposed to the additional labelling of alcoholic beverages, the industry now recognises consumers’ right to know what the products contain. Reference is made to an increasing number of voluntary initiatives that contribute to informing the consumer about ingredients and nutrition labelling, including energy, for alcoholic beverages. The European Commission does not now propose mandatory labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages with a list of ingredients and a nutrition declaration, but invites an overall industry to respond to consumer expectations about information on alcoholic beverages. The alcohol industry is asked to propose, by one year from 13 March 2017, a self-regulatory regime for such labelling to apply to the entire alcohol sector. The European Commission will then further consider proposals from the alcohol industry for self-regulation and, where appropriate, propose regulation or other measures if the proposal is not considered satisfactory. I want to follow these developments closely, as labelling alcoholic beverages with a list of ingredients and nutrition labelling is important information for public health. This also provides important consumer information.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1522	Is it so to understand that the Council of State thinks that what I write in my question – that the report opens up so that Norway can introduce its own brand requirements that go beyond some sort of minimum standard, even if one does not have to – is wrong? I'd like to ask the Council of State if he thinks what I'm writing in the question is wrong, or if it's right that Norway can introduce it if there's a reason for it. There are other countries in Europe that have already introduced it. I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1528	This report does not change the circumstances of the Food Information Regulation as long as the European Commission proposes a process of sectoral regulation on voluntary initiatives. The assessment of the issue of whether the EEA Agreement allows national labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages with ingredient and nutrition declarations to be established was carried out as a follow-up to the request decision of the Stortinget and concluded that it would probably not be possible to introduce Norwegian national labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages with a list of ingredients and a nutrition declaration without this being considered contrary to the Food Information Regulation, as the legislation has now been formulated. This report does not change this. It is true that some countries have rules on this, but it may be according to Article 41 of the Food Information Regulation that these countries have passed on national requirements that they already had before that regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1536	It is that knowing what alcoholic beverages contain is also an important public health issue. Governments are concerned about regulating salt intakes, etc. and to bring in regulations against private business. The Council of State may point out to the European Commission, but my question is: will the Council of State take an own initiative, either towards the EU, in the forums there, or towards the industry here in Norway, to get on the road? It's not forbidden to introduce this, it's a voluntary scheme. Will the Council of State take an initiative as Minister of Health and Welfare to obtain a nutrition declaration for alcoholic beverages in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1542	I fully agree with the representative that it would have been desirable. Therefore, I had hoped that the conclusion of the European Commission was different. I have worked towards the European Union in the forums where I have the opportunity to do so, at the informal health ministers' meetings, and in meetings I have had with the Commissioner, in order for the European Union to be in favour of a system of content declarations for alcoholic beverages. This is the way in which Norway, as a non-member country, has the opportunity to influence these kinds of questions. We consider that – as the investigation has also concluded – Norway at a national level cannot introduce rules to this effect without breaking the EEA Agreement. This means that we still have to work to ensure that the EU introduces rules in this area. I believe it would be best to have rules attached to this. It would have been better than a branch scheme anchored in the industry, in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1552	‘In Norway, we find the most obvious social differences in health. We have knowledge and tools to meet these challenges. The government denies responsibility and refuses to listen to research and knowledge. In its new diet plan, good eating and eating habits should be taken into account. The measures are so few and the efforts are so small that they cannot be taken seriously. Children should be food agents and do the work of adults. Does the Council of State believe that between six and ten years of age, food agents will take responsibility for something that he himself does not dare to commit to?"
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1559	Firstly, I fundamentally disagree with what the representative here writes in his question. This government takes the most seriously the social health differences. This is one of the reasons why we have presented a public health report that for the first time raises mental health challenges in the same way as physical health. This is also one of the reasons why we are now launching a comprehensive public health programme in municipalities related to the mental health of children and young people, where nearly 40 million are allocated. kr in 2017 to gain more knowledge about the functioning of public health measures. The plan to which the representative refers contains 42 action points in five areas, with both meal-satisfied and healthy diets, good and simple choices, communication, knowledge, nutrition in healthcare, research, development and innovation. We have also launched a series of measures that reach the whole population, not least through cooperation with the food industry, where we are now reducing sugar, salt and saturated fat in food, which affects us all, just to balance the social difference in health. I am surprised that the representative is speaking negatively about the initiative with children as food agents, because this is a system based on the same model as the Environmental Agents. It is not that at the time the Environmental Agents were set up, it was in order to leave the children to take responsibility for the environment, but it was simply a recognition that letting children get involved in environmental issues will have an impact on making them more aware of it throughout the country, and on learning new generations in the meaning of the environment. That is exactly what food agents are going to contribute to – not that children are going to be responsible for food, but that children are going to get knowledge, not only about what is a healthy diet, but also about what is a sustainable diet. This is an initiative based on broad cooperation with the private and non-profit sector, in which the large organisations are involved. The NCD alliance is included, EAT is included as an organisation, and also some of those that make the food, e.g. TINE, Norse Meierierier, is in. It would be interesting to hear whether it is such that the Workers' Party now believes that this is a bad initiative, and that if the Workers' Party wins the election for the autumn, the initiative with the Food Agents will not be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1572	I think it's directly sad that the Council of State does not see the difference in encouraging young people to take responsibility for the environment and to take responsibility for nutrition, the experience of their own bodies and the general public in establishing good dietary habits. I just think that's sad. When the Council of State itself raises the public health issue and states that there was also mental health, I would like to ask the Council of State why he refuses to use the broad common arenas to prevent and treat mental illness. We know that mental health is one of our major challenges. 260,000 children have had such problems that care is affected, and nearly 70,000 children and young people are suffering from treatment demands. Is this also what the Council of State believes is up to the individual to take responsibility for himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1579	One must almost wonder if the representative has at all followed up on what has happened in the field of health policy in recent years, in order to claim something as fundamental as that this government and I do not believe that we are going to work to strengthen mental health in the broad arenas, must, of course, be based on lack of knowledge. This government has made lifelong learning a basic theme throughout the school. We are expanding the offer to carry out preventive mental health work in the municipalities at a very high pace. When we took over, there were 130 psychologists in the municipalities. Now there are nearly 400 psychologists in the municipalities. Soon the government comes with a legal requirement that there should be psychological competence in the municipalities that the Workers' Party voted against. It's just the broad arenas we use to create better mental health in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1584	Right-wing representatives, the Council of State's own party and the entire government fraction have voted in favour of integrating mental health into school. They have voted in favour of establishing lowthreshold prevention services in all municipalities. Coming back with ‘light’ variants after the government offices would only be missing. Yesterday we could also read in the evening post that a majority believe that the wallet is important if you get sick. So the government is running a policy that opens up private offerings on a large scale. A private health market has been one of the main issues for the Council of State. The government has entrusted the responsibility for the prevention of good health to individuals. Is it also such that treatment is something to be solved by the private market alone, or is it only when there is a campaign, and when you follow up from the government offices, that you pull the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1589	It's almost so I suspect that the representative has been locked up in an office at Youngstorget for the last three years and has been embezzled with rhetoric from his own party and has not followed up on what's going on in society. It is true that the Labour Party has made a number of proposals in areas where the government has already started work and where the government parties have voted against the proposal, because the government parties have no reason to vote in favour of proposals already put forward by the government. As I said to the previous question, we are now launching a significant public health programme, just targeting children and young people's mental health. That's what money is for. It's already going on. We are now engaged in a national mental health strategy specifically aimed at children and young people's mental health, and not least is the supply being expanded at this moment. That's what's real, but the Workers' Party has now specialized in criticism and rhetoric and not politics, and it uses to go bad in elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1597	‘The Home Protection System has received 40 pst. multiple key objects to protect, requiring watchkeeping and security in the event of a crisis or war. At the same time, the Right Party and the Advance Party reduce the Home Guard. During the hearings of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Inspector General of the Home Office made it clear that he did not have the resources he needed. In the light of the Riksrevision's criticism, will the government continue to provide adequate resources to solve its military social mission for people and protect our vulnerable social values?'
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1610	Through the long-term plan for the Defence and the 2017 budget, the government implements a significant strengthening of the Home Security. It's in addition to what we've already done in this period for HV, for example. major budgets, more resources for exercises and improvement of the level of training of the response forces. In addition, the exercise structure of the HV reached the planned exercise and training target for 2016 as early as 2014. From 2015 we started to supply the area structure with modern weapons, and that work continues. Now we're making a significant investment in new field vehicles for HV, to over half a billion dollars, to increase mobility. Chief HV has been given overall responsibility as head of forces, and a national territorial management element for tactical management of HV forces is now being established. The levels of districts in Troms and Finnmark are strengthened by the addition of personnel. Overall, this will increase the ability to plan and carry out different types of assignments using HV forces, including object protection. The size has decided to adapt the area structure to the actual level by reducing the plan number from 42 000 to 35000 people. It's based on the exact same logic and thinking as the previous Central Party government did when it reduced its input power from 5,000 to 3,000. I explained in detail in the hearing last week about improved object protection measures both before and after the National Audit Office's 2015 survey. In addition, Chief HV said in the hearing that he expected that HV’s operational capability would increase as a result of the provision of resources for maintenance, increased exercise and training, etc. As the representative knows, military and civil key objects are defined as objects of crucial importance for the defence and military defence of war and are to be regarded as legitimate military objectives in war. The key object list has been updated annually since 2012, and the revision of the list in 2012 resulted in a significant decrease in the number of key objects. Since 2012, the number of objects has also been decreasing. This is because the reduced presence of the defence around the country over several decades has reduced the need for watchkeeping and security of military infrastructure. In addition, changes occur as a result of new communication technologies. The new legislation introduced in 2012–2013 also led to significantly narrower criteria for the designation of key objects. It has as a consequence that despite the increase of 40 pst. for 2016, which was an expected consequence of the update of the plan, the number of key objects is well below the number of items on the list in 2012 and 2013 and is for 2016 at the level of 2014. Therefore, it is misleading to use the increase from 2015 to 2016 as an argument that Home Security should not be dimensioned in order to solve its tasks. Over time, the number of key objects has been reduced, while the HV structure, with small variations, has been stable around the level of the new plan figures. For 2017, we have increased HV's operating budget by 191 million. kr. That's an increase of 16 pst. and one of the biggest increases ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1624	In an interview with Prime Minister Solberg, the newspaper Enterprises in More and Romesdal wrote the following quote from the Prime Minister on object protection: ‘It is a responsibility for those who make the safety assessments, and not a matter for us politicians.’ Today, in the newspaper, we can read an open-heart e-mail from the Chief of Home Affairs, Tor Rune Raabye, where he skins the process of land-use distribution, which the Newspaper calls a "skin process". I have great respect for the fact that the head of the Home Office stands firm and sees people's security and country's interests lead their own lives. Is the Council of State agreed in the appointment of the Prime Minister on who is responsible for object protection and can the Council of State further confirm that no form of leadership has been put in place to end by recommending the merger of the Army and the Home Office? It's two simple yes/no questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1634	Of course, the overall responsibility for object protection, like everything else, lies with the politicians, but it's the Defense and the Police that come together to figure out how best to secure it. It's a professional problem. So I notice that it refers to Chief HV in the question from Navarsette. As the head of defense says very clearly in the reply in the newspaper, he does not at all feel familiar with the claim, and the claim is directly wrong. No leads have been made in any direction — rather, on the contrary, this is an open work on an open and broad mandate that the representative can read on the Ministry of Defence and Defence’s websites. But once you're busy standing straight, as the representative says, I think it's something special that the representative Navarsete never mentions what happened when the Senterpartie put in government, with a reduction in Home Protection, cut in budgets, hardly any exercise and training of the area structure, but it's perhaps because, as the representative Navarsete himself admitted in April 2016, they didn't think it was necessary to focus so much on Defence when they put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1643	The Council of State must have realized that we have had a completely different security policy situation now than we had at the time. That was the background for my announcement in 2016. There were many who thought that the weather had changed forever since the wall fell and we got a softening of the situation. The protection of their boats by sea is now being surrendered, and the government is about to wind up the protection of the marine environment in express travel. An increasing number of cautions against putting down maritime protection prior to land-use planning are a step towards bringing down all of Homeland protection. In the setting of the government's half-completed long-term defence plan, there is one of them.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The members of the Committee of the Christian People’s Party and the Left note positively that a political majority has been reached in the Stortinget in order to continue the current structure of the Heimevertet, including HV-11/Setnesmoen and Sjøheimevertet in 2017.’; It shows that the government did not have support in Stortinget to put down the Sjöheimewertel before the year is out. Is it the case that the Council of State does not follow the will of the Storting to keep the Sjöheimewertel out of 2017, and why does it have such a hurry to put down the Sjöheimewertel?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1657	Firstly, Sjöheimewert is not being put into express traffic, and there is also a clear majority decision in the Stortinget on that closure. It also follows from the decisions taken by the Stortinget. So I think it is worth reminding that when the representative Navarsete says that we had a completely different security policy situation after 2013, that is quite right. At the same time, the new security policy situation fully demonstrates the shortcomings in the Defence and which had built up during the eight years of the Central Party in government. It was a aftermath on maintenance, spare parts, emergency supplies, ammunition, which means that we are now putting in large sums just to correct all the deficiencies that were there. I pointed to it when I was in Stortinget, but at that time you would not tell anything about the deficiencies that were in the defense. Today, in 2017, we are strengthening the budgets by 2.2 billion. kr in one year. They're much more than the Center Party thought it was necessary to strengthen the Defense within eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1667	This question, from the representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1672	‘School is the main arena of society to balance differences. But instead of prioritizing students who are struggling, the Right Party and the Advance Party have voted against five of the Workers' Party's proposals in the UK about early efforts. Now, at the tame of the government period, a message is finally presented. In a good month's time there will be consultation in the Church, Education and Research Committee. So it's still going to take time for something to happen in the classrooms. These measures are far from early on by the government, why has nothing happened before?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1679	Last Friday, the government presented a message to strengthen early school efforts. Knowledge of the importance of early learning and the future of students has been well known for a long time, and the Training Act requires the school to deploy additional resources of between 1 and 4. steps. Nevertheless, every year about 10,000 students leave primary school with so weak math skills and reading that they can get problems with further education and work. It is a strong signal that we need to change the way we work with early efforts, both nationally and locally. We have to get away from a wait-and-see attitude in Norwegian school. Today, too many students are struggling professionally and socially, and are not getting help early enough. To help these children, we need to address the problems as soon as they occur. The government has therefore proposed that the school should be given an obligation to provide pupils who are left in reading, writing and billing from 1st to 4th grade, intensive training immediately. This shall not require any of its own decisions or any other procedure. The path to additional assistance and support shall be shortened. The legislative proposal is being consulted during the spring, but that does not mean that the school needs to wait to start this kind of intensive training for students who need it. We have seen many examples of municipalities that have already put early effort into systems, from which others can learn. An obligation to provide intensive training is a step forward for all children and young people to have a good basis for further education. This does not mean that the government has waited until now to put in place early interventions. Together with the cooperation parties, we have granted 1.3 billion. kr to several teachers from 1 to 4. the stage of primary school. I think that gives room to give more adapted training to the youngest students. So it's not that the number of teachers is enough in itself to ensure early effort. It is essential that the school has the necessary systems and competences to achieve the objective. That's why we've strengthened the reading, writing and billing work in school through Language Loops and through the real science strategy, and we've laid the foundation through a historical effort on the teacher. The government has carried out a major further education commitment, we have strengthened the requirements for access to teacher training, and we are now introducing a new, five-year master's education for all teachers in primary school. In the new framework plans, we have placed much more emphasis on the need for teachers of the youngest students to have special skills in initial training, and I am pleased that there is now a great deal of consensus on the need for more early action. Hopefully that means that we don't want to spend time arguing about who came up with the term first, and that municipalities and schools can start working quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1694	Earlier in this ageing period, the Workers' Party proposed the following: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that students who need it are quickly offered additional organised training, so that all those who require it have satisfactory reading, writing and billing skills before the end of the 2nd stage.’ That time the Right answered by saying that there was a time thief in school. I'd rather say that it's the government's abduction that's the really big and serious time thief for the students, but now, a few years later, the government proposes something of the same. This isn't about arguing about who was first, but why has it taken so long to understand this? What has really happened since we discussed this last time, except that a few thousand more have dropped out of school because they don't get enough help?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1706	As I said in my previous answer, the government has given priority to school through the measures I mentioned: more teachers, increased competence for teachers, increased skills requirements to enter the teacher's college, five-year master's education. We have also strengthened our efforts to raise pupils at school through language courses and through real-life vocational strategies. It is not that the Labour Party or the red-green parties have taken the lead in school policy. On the contrary, they have been in the back for almost every year. Neither the Workers' Party nor the Swedish Labour Party had been outside the government's office for a long time before they even admitted that they had not prioritized enough knowledge in school, that school policy had been abandoned, and that the need to bet in school was now seen. We now see that the results are improved in school. We also look at the international surveys in recent years that the school results have improved, and we should be happy for all of us. I'm glad that the government is now taking up the school policy we're running. It will benefit students who are particularly struggling at school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1715	The reason why we're doing so much about this is that there's an urgent need for concrete action for many young people to fall out of education and get out of work. Health Director Bjørn Guldvog said in his annual health speech that ‘this presents health challenges for the rest of life’. We know that education is the most important mechanism for equalizing differences. Then it is a bit sought by the Council of State to say that the opposition has been behind, for the status of this government period is not very uplifting: there have been no more unqualified teachers in classrooms for many years. Teacher density has fallen. No one else has ever gone to private schools. 39,000 students are being bullied. The recruitment of elementary school teachers is record low. Is the Council of State satisfied with this development, especially given the importance of the education sector in ensuring participation and equalising differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1724	The government has taken a number of measures to strengthen the school, such as the measures I have already mentioned, but also to ensure that students complete the school more fully. The absenteeism limit in secondary school is one of those measures. We have a huge investment in health care and psychological services at school, just to catch up on the fact that many students today are struggling not only professionally but also socially. So that's the sum of the measures you take, both professionally and by strengthening the teacher, by strengthening the efforts aimed at students and students' rights and also the other support services that the school benefits from. So this government's school policy is extremely offensive, and we see that the results are now getting better. But we're not going to lean back at all. We see that there are still too many students who work professionally: 10,000 students leave school every year without being able to function properly on the basis of what they have learned. So we're still going to bet. This is just a start after many years of neglect from the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1734	This question, from the representative of Marianne Aasen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1739	‘Society is increasingly demanding knowledge and competence, but a total of four out of ten students are falling away. It can create increasing differences. Norway is among OECD countries with the weakest conduct of studies. The quality notification of the government is not binding, and most measures must be taken by the institutions themselves. What is the degree of non-response of the Council of State, and what measures in the notification and in the government's other policies do the Council of State consider to be contributing to the reduction of non-response?»
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1746	New OECD figures show that on average 50 pst completes. by Norwegian full-time students in a bachelor's degree in normal time. The OECD average is 41 pst. After a further three years, the average degree of completion in Norway increases to 76 pst. For OECD countries, the average is 69 pst. The figures point to a better outcome for Norwegian students compared to students in OECD countries than the question from the representative Marianne Aasen might suggest. International comparisons are characterised by a certain degree of uncertainty because the figures used may be somewhat different. However, the final implementation figures of the SSB also show an improvement over time for Norwegian students, and that is good. The dropout takes place in particular in the first two semesters, which is why good professional and social follow-up of first-year students is important. At the same time, we see that many students do re-election. This is not a disqualification from higher education, but a change to a new study. Some setbacks and delays are natural, and we cannot expect everyone to complete in normal time. However, I fully agree with the representative Marianne Aasen that too many students fall from higher education. Disqualification is unfortunate for individuals and society, and that is precisely why this issue is discussed in depth in the paper on quality in higher education that the government has just presented. However, I do not see it as appropriate for the Ministry of Knowledge to decide on the extent of non-response acceptable at national level, as requested by the representative Marianne Aasen. For this, the matter is too complex. It's the universities and colleges that have the primary responsibility to facilitate that the students don't fall off. The challenges of non-response vary between educational institutions, between bachelor and master levels and between technology, health, teacher training and humanities. The professional environments of the different institutions must themselves assess the causes of non-response and the most appropriate measures to be taken. Institutions may also assess whether they will set their own objectives for implementation. The Ministry of Knowledge follows, inter alia: in the annual cycle management including the evolution of throughput figures. I believe that the message in the quality communication is clear, and the sector agrees that work on quality of education needs to be given greater attention. The government contributes at national level with a number of measures that can reduce the non-response. We have already introduced a new candidate indicator in the funding system and strengthened the admission requirements for teacher training, and we also consider increasing the admission requirements for nurse training. Examples of measures proposed by the government in the quality notification are the national quality competition venue, better counselling as a basis for better choice of education, the possibility of setting specific admission requirements for individual training, etc. The government's objective is that the positive developments we are now seeing in the flow forward should continue, and it is the sum of many individual measures by the government and the institutions that together will reduce non-retirement in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1761	I have been basing my report on the Riksrevision report, which has looked at non-response and implementation ever since the quality reform was implemented, in 2003. The national audit is not satisfied with the state of things and is very clear that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge to follow up the educational institutions, so that action is taken. Then we can discuss numbers – whether they are so high or so low, compared to other countries. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that they're not always comparable. Nevertheless, the dropout is too high, because we lose a lot of valuable labour and useful income for the students, who can work instead. Several measures have been launched at individual level, for example: social measures for new students, individual follow-up of students with low progress, etc., but it has not had any particular effect. What measures does the Council of State consider to be most effective in combating non-response?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1770	The study of both the causes of non-response and the measures that can be taken to reduce non-response in higher education is important. In this way, I share the Aasen's concern about this. I also agree with the National Audit Office, which says that the Ministry of Knowledge has a special responsibility to follow up. This is done by the Ministry of Knowledge through the etat management dialogue. My point in my main post was that it would be unnatural to create national targets for what is acceptable non-response. In addition to the measures I mentioned, which are proposed in the Quality Communication, there are also other measures: the possibility of setting specific admission requirements for individual training courses, the assessment of how the support schemes can be set up through the State Lending Fund for Education to stimulate progress and completion of the degree, the development of a pedagogical recruitment system for employees, among others. Which of these will have the greatest effect, I'm going to be careful to answer – the Minister of Knowledge may be able to answer it better. However, it is the sum of measures, both nationally and not least at individual institutions, that will be decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1777	There is no doubt that there are many possible measures to consider. Not least, the government has provided a message where there are many good actions, I would say. That's good, because it costs money to have many students walking that can't be completed. In addition, it gives a signal to us politicians that the quality of education may not be good enough, it should be done something about the way you learn, the guidance is too poor – as many students have pointed out – and everything related to the practice of working life has an absolute potential for improvement. Much of this points to the big message, which is to be dealt with in Stortinget this spring. But I still wonder how the government sees these measures to be implemented. Just to frame them and then expect the institutions to follow up – is it not too weak by a government that should have had greater ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1784	You'll have to wait for the Storting's report to be processed. Many may suggest that there may be both an intriguing handling of the notification and a debate. Once the Storting has dealt with the notification and taken decisions, those decisions shall be implemented. Something could happen through the ordinary ordinary governance dialogue, where institutions are encouraged or recommended to take different measures. Others may be more specific measures, I mentioned more. To assess the support schemes for the Loan Fund, for example, it would be a very concrete measure that would benefit students. How to follow up the quality notification must be brought back once the Storting has dealt with it and when the various decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1797	The question is addressed to the Hauglie State Council, as Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: ‘High employment is the main response to increased disparities. At Højres national meeting in 2013, Erna Solberg said: ‘We need to get more people who are currently falling out of work to stay within.’ The fasitant after more than three years of right-wing government is that the proportion that is not working in 2016 was the highest of over 20 years. The number of juveniles has increased by 37 pst. Several young people are out of work, education and activity. On the basis of these results, does the government think it is wise to continue the policy they have pursued since 2013?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1806	The proportion of the population aged 15–74 employed is decreasing. The decline has been gradual since 2008, and in 2016 the employment rate was 4.7 percentage points lower than in 2008. About three-quarters of this decrease occurred before the fall in oil prices in 2014 and a quarter afterwards. Today it is approx. 73 000 young people in neither a workplace nor a school. 70,000 of them were already on the outside in 2013, while the number was 47 000 in 2008. The increase after we took over in 2013 has been 3 000 people. We know a little bit about who's no longer employed. We've got more old-age pensioners, more unemployed and more in education. There has been an increase in the number of people in the older age groups in the labour force, which is why we have also had more old age pensioners. Among young people, there are now several who declare that they are in education and there are considerably fewer who combine education and part-time work. The increase in unemployment has been mainly due to a sharp fall in oil prices and oil investment and lower employment in oil-related industries. The government has launched a series of measures to facilitate business transition and to strengthen employment. These measures now bear fruit. Unemployment is on the decline, as recorded by both Nav and SSB. We also see signs that could indicate a more positive development of employment in the future. Among other things, Norway’s Bank’s regional networks indicate that Norwegian enterprises expect to employ more than one company this year — but also other reports report the same. However, we should be careful to draw positive conclusions now. Unemployment is still high in the Norwegian context, and we have groups that have withdrawn from the labour market. The latter is expected to return to the labour market as employment increases. The representative, Andersen, points to youth. I share the commitment of the young. The government has increased its efforts for young people, with particular emphasis on getting more people to complete upper secondary education. We have introduced absenteeism limits that have produced good results. We have strengthened health services and follow-up regimes in school through increased efforts on health sisters, psychological services and the presence of Nav. And we have increased the apprentice grant to secure more young apprenticeships. The government also has important measures for those who are not in a school situation today. We ensure that there will be a direct transition from youth rights to adult law. As of this year, a stronger youth effort has been put in place in the countries of the South-West. Furthermore, a two-year training course in Nav is established. Activity obligations for young beneficiaries of social assistance are in place. Compensation schemes have been simplified and new and better arrangements are in place. We have given more freedom of action to the Nav offices, so that they can help job seekers to work with measures adapted to local challenges. We have opened up a greater opportunity for temporary employment. The representative asks if it is wise to continue the government's policy line. The answer to that is a clear yes. We have now left behind the most difficult year after the oil price fall. Unemployment is now falling. The various projections for the future development of the Norwegian economy clearly point in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1823	I understand that the government wants to move forward on the line that has led to thousands more young people being out of everything every year – that is, without a job, without education, without any training. And we see that the number of young people disabled from 2013 to 2016 went up by 37 pst. Governments say unemployment falls. In connection with the last unemployment figures, Chief Inspector Jan L. Andreassen said that now we have major problems. This is serious. The reason why he said that is because exactly what we have warned against is happening. First the unemployment rate increases, then the proportion of the employed population decreases, and then the labour force decreases. What the Council of State does not say is that while the last unemployment figures came, the Central Bureau of Statistics said that 11 000 fewer people are actually employed. Then my question is, doesn't that council worry?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1828	Well, that's worrying, and that's also the reason why this government, at the time of accession, was also involved in the exclusion, because I said at the time of my accession that reducing the exclusion of young people is one of my main focus areas. I remember what I said in my main response: from 2008 to 2013, the exclusion of young people increased from 47,000 to 70,000. From 2013 until now, it went from 70 000 to 73 000. It's still too high, but we see that it's flattened out, and there's reason to believe that several of the measures we've taken are contributing positively. Task No one is to ensure that more jobs are created, and that we are able to secure more of the jobs that are, so that there is a better labour market for those who are outside today. The most important thing we can do now for young people is to ensure that several of them stay in school and complete high school, and that those who have not completed secondary school are qualified by various training measures, so that they have the opportunity to re-enter the labour market as they improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1835	I fully agree that the most important thing now is that new jobs are created. That is why I am concerned that no new jobs are created. In a situation where we've had challenges with the oil price, but at the same time had the side effect that we've actually had very low dollar rates and low interest rates, the historically low creation of new jobs in the private sector. Leading economists say, "Note! There's something hidden behind a small pro-million-dollar drop in the unemployment rates, which is that even fewer people are employed. So there are several people who give up looking for a job and are therefore not registered as looking for a job. It's a very serious situation for the country. Now we see the results of government policy. The Council of State said quite correctly that it talked a lot about the Swedish right term ‘foreign’ before the elections, but the result is that more and more people are being excluded. Will the government turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1840	We're not going to turn the political direction. We believe it is right for the country. We are now looking at the forecasts from both the central bank manager, the SSB and the business community themselves, that there is a lot of evidence that the peak of unemployment is now reached, that the knee is over. But as I also said in my main answer, we can't lean back, precisely because there are too many people out of work today. There are too many young people who are neither at work nor at school. That is why we are so concerned that we need to ensure that young people stay in school – those who are there – and that those who have lost their jobs and lack secondary education become qualified. Then there are several things we're doing. We're closing the gap between juvenile and adult rights. It's high time you made the transition there better. We have introduced a two-year training scheme in Nav for those with few basic skills. We have made it easier for those who are unemployed and have lost their jobs, to combine the daily allowance with education. And we also make it easier for those who go on a day's payroll, to start their own business. The whole purpose is just to make sure that those who have lost the job are better qualified to get a job. We see that there is a job growth around, and there is demand for labour in large parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1850	‘Work for all with steady wage development through collective wage negotiations is our best medicine for increasing differences. Low exchange rates, low interest rates and moderate wage-fixing have prevented unemployment from rising to even higher levels. The Norwegian model is based on a high degree of organisation and close tripartite cooperation between employers, workers and administrations. Why will the government undermine this by weakening the union deduction, building up tripartite cooperation and increasing the temporaryity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1857	First of all, I disagree with the representative Torve in the claim that the government undermines the tripartite cooperation or other important principles of Norwegian working life. But I agree with the representative Torve that cooperation in Norwegian working life provides good results for society. An example of this is the agreement reached between the employee organisations and employers’ organisations on the annual salary settlement. Through negotiations, the parties have arrived at a moderate wage settlement, which has a good impact on the Norwegian economy and on employment. I am pleased with the power and strength that lie in the good interaction between the organizations in the world of work. The government has not wanted to reduce the tax deduction from the union quota. In line with the government’s political platform, the tax deduction has continued throughout the four-year period. But there may be several factors that are important to the level of organisation, which I agree should be high – not least it is a great responsibility for the organisations themselves to attract new members. New opportunities for temporary employment are not about weakening the organised labour market. It's about making the threshold into work lower for people who are striving to get in. Half of the temporary staff receive permanent employment after one year. The government's policy is to promote and facilitate an organised working life and well-functioning tripartite cooperation. We are dedicated to having a good dialogue with all the organisations in the world of work. The Norwegian working life model requires strong and responsible organisations with a high record. It is particularly important that we have organisations that are themselves able to take an important role in society and thus be something more than pure interest groups. Fortunately, we have such organisations in Norway. The government therefore emphasises its special close contact with the main social organisations. Here we use the central cooperation bodies, such as, for example: the government's contact committee and the Technical Calculation Committee for the statement of income. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I have frequent contact with the main social organisations in formal and informal contexts. I feel that it is a mutual will to listen to each other. As under all governments, there will be issues where there is disagreement. In several cases, the social partners will also have different views between themselves. The government may make priorities other than those desired by organisations, but such disagreements do not threaten the basic will for cooperation that characterises Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1872	The fact that fewer people organise themselves undermines, in the view of the Labour Party, the serious and safe working life we have in Norway, because a serious working life is one of the most important floor plans in the Norwegian model. We in the Workers' Party will strengthen organised working life through, among other things. to increase the trade-union deduction, to abolish so-called "loose workers' contracts", to have a stricter regulation on the manning industry and to remove general access to temporary employment, in order to mention something. Are the Councils concerned that the level of organisation in Norway is falling? And if she is, what measures will she take to stimulate increased levels of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1879	Yes, the level of organisation should be high. It is a strength that the level of organisation is high, also because high levels of organisation mean that organisations have legitimacy. The more members, the better it is both on the employee’s side and on the employer’s side. And then there's more relationships that can influence it. One is, of course, action taken by the authorities. I think the union quota could be one instrument. There we have kept the union deduction at the nominally same level. But there are other issues, such as: by involving the parties in issues that are important to the parties. Only in my time, in my late years as a Council of State, have I set up several working groups and selections together with the parties on issues that have been of particular importance to them. The last thing is – not least – that I involve the parties in terms of rental. In the case of temporary employment, it is right that we opened up the possibility of being able to hire temporarily, but at the same time we also took steps to avoid abuse and a short cut in time when you might actually be temporarily employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1886	Unfortunately, the outcome of government policy shows that the differences between peoples are increasing, as opposed to when the Workers' Party was in government. The review tone of government policy has been great tax cuts to the most wealthy on the one hand, and unsocial and petty cuts to vulnerable groups on the other, among others. on the budget of the Council of State. Is it a government goal to balance differences between people? If so, does the government now have a new policy in mind to reduce differences? Current policies help the opposite, namely to increase differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1893	There is no reason to say that the differences are increasing under this government – SSB says on the contrary that you cannot say that. But what you could say is that the inequalities have increased steadily since the 1980s, regardless of which government has been. The main reason why differences have increased is two things. One is that people are not at work, and the other is high immigration. The vast majority of those living in income poverty today are persons who have migrated to Norway. The good story is that social mobility in Norway is quite high. Low income goes from higher income over a relatively short period of time. But the most important thing we can do for those who live in income poverty, where the main weight is people who have migrated to Norway, is to provide a good school for the children, to ensure the qualification of their parents, but not least jobs. So that's the sum of what we do with school and qualification on the one hand and creating jobs and getting people to work on the other, but also good welfare arrangements. That's what prevents and reduces inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1900	Question 17 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1908	I'm sorry that the question was postponed for a week, but because of other urgent tasks, it happened that way. I am very pleased that the Council of State is here today. My question is: ‘The Ombudsman has made serious findings relating to the agreement with the Netherlands on the rental of accommodation. Among other things, he points out that the Norwegian authorities have been deterred from taking responsibility for the protection of prisoners, which poses a risk of torture and inhuman treatment. Does the Council of State consider this to be serious, and how will the Council of State ensure that the Norwegian authorities will again be able to discharge responsibility for the protection of prisoners against torture and inhumane treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1919	I take seriously the visit report from the Civil Ombudsman Prevention Unit. The Ministry reviews the report and findings in it together with the Directorate of Criminal Affairs and the Norwegian prison in the Netherlands, Norwayrhaven. The Ministry will return to the follow-up in its feedback to the Civil Ombudsman by 1 June, which is the time limit set by the Civil Ombudsman. A fundamental condition for the government to promote the proposal to conclude the agreement with the Netherlands on the rental of prison capacity was that it does not conflict with international human rights, by which Norway is bound. It was also a prerequisite for the agreement that the parties, the Netherlands and Norway, recognise and are bound by international standards and standards for human rights. This is made clear in the preface to the agreement. Both Norway and the Netherlands have ratified the European Convention on Human Rights of 4 November 1950 and the United Nations Convention on Torture of 10 December 1984. Both parties are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Conventions, including the prohibition of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Furthermore, it follows from the agreement that the Norwegian Penal Code applies in Norwayrhaven prison and that the Norwegian prison leader is responsible for the security of the prison. Prison leaders decide both what coercive measures prison staff can use in relation to prisoners to maintain order and security and who can be admitted to prison. Prisoners in Norwegian prisons do not carry weapons, nor in Norwayrhaven prisons. If the police have to be recruited in prisons in Norway, it is up to the police to decide whether it is necessary to arm themselves or to use other types of coercive measures. Similarly, the Netherlands. There has been no emergency situation where there is a need for assistance from the Dutch police or external response team since the start of 1 September 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1930	Thank you to the Council of State for this answer. As you know, the Workers' Party was strongly opposed to the creation of settlements in the Netherlands. We thought that it would have been much better to invest in accolades in both Halden and Ski, which was quite possible. But now the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have chosen this model. I am pleased that the Council of State understands the seriousness of the concern that the Civil Ombudsman is now coming along with, and that it is to be assessed what the government will do in view of it. But if this torture and inhuman treatment does not end, will the government re-assess the rental agreement with the Netherlands and Norwayrhaven prison, so that Norwegian prisoners are treated in the same way as in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1937	I want to take a great deal of distance from statements that suggest that torture is taking place in Norway, that prisoners who suffer in any way, that they are being violated by human rights and that kind of relationship. What is pointed out in the report is of a very different nature and not as serious as this is indirectly claimed. It is quite right that the Labour Party was opposed to the use of prison resources in the Netherlands. That is what you should want today too – the point was that we had to solve an emergency situation that the previous government was unable to solve, namely long prison cows. Therefore, we had to temporarily – I stress, it is a temporary arrangement – use prison sites in the Netherlands while building up the capacity for settlement in Norway. I record that the Workers' Party is against it and prefers long cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1944	Marianne Vollan, Director of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, said in July 2015: ‘Punishment in the Netherlands takes place under Norwegian law, and thus prisoners have the same rights and obligations as prisoners in Norwegian prisons.’ The Labour Party has tried several times to get a response to this: if prisoners have violated Norwegian laws in Dutch prisons, are they to be punished and followed up for this? I am thinking in particular of drug offences, where we have very different laws in the Netherlands and Norway. Will there then be Norwegian or Dutch laws that apply when they punish there?
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1954	I think it's important to consider what's actually in the Civil Ombudsman's report. As I stress – the Ministry of Justice and Defence takes this report very seriously and will follow it up and respond to it within the time limit imposed by the Civil Ombudsman. So it's like the presentation that I feel you've contributed to, in part in the media, but also in this room, in no way is correct. Yes, it is true that the report points out matters that need to be considered, but there is no evidence of a violation of human rights, and it is not about torture. I want to take a strong distance from that kind of claim, and I want to stress that we have a very good follow-up of the prisoners in Norwayrhaven, in line with what we have of all the other prisoners in Norwegian prisons. We will give a good answer to the issues raised by the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1963	Then there were no more questions raised in today's ordinary Question Time, and Case No. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2017-03-29.ana.ud344e1977	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
